ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Elena Papuga, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miroslav Markicevic and Dr Ivan Bauer. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally for Friday, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda set out in the request of the Government to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that aside from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, I have also called for the session to be attended by Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request for the maintenance of the Eighth Extraordinary Session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, the following Dn e n e d: 1.Proposal of the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions; 2. Proposal for a Transport of Immobilities Act; 3. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act; National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157 paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: a bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts; a proposal for a traffic law on immovableity; a draft law on court fees; does the MP, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on proposals for legislation from the agenda by point. 1, 2 and 3, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions, the Proposal for a Law on Transport of Immobility and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7645	Thank you. Dear Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to present to you, at the beginning of this united principle debate, the most important solution that contains the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions, the Proposal for a Law on Transport of Immobility and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and prepared by the Ministry of Justice. First of all, I would point out that the adoption of these three draft laws by emergency procedure is necessary for the purpose of introducing public-book action into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. As is known, the Law on Public Registration was adopted in 2011, and several times the start of its application was delayed because there were not enough candidates who passed the public-recording exam, and therefore there was no conditions for the law to be applied. The last delay in the application of the Law on Public Registration was in the spring of 2013, when the application of this law is scheduled to begin on 1 September 2014. As you know, that date has come close. The great efforts of the Ministry of Justice, our foreign donors who have provided great support, as well as public-book chambers of other countries, have been appointed to a sufficient number of public notebooks and other conditions have been created, so that the Law on Public Registration can begin to apply within the deadline within which the last amendment of the law is foreseen. As I pointed out in my presentation in the National Assembly in May of this year, when presenting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on non-partisan procedure, it is necessary to amend other laws relating to the activity of public notebooks in full application of the Law on Public Registration. Today’s debate in the National Assembly is about to discuss the proposals of these laws. At the very beginning, before entering into the interpretation of each of the draft laws individually, I would like to point out that the most significant percentage is the applicability of these laws to those norms prescribed by the Public Records Act. In some parts of the amendment of the Law are termological, in some it is precisely the work of a public notebook. Essentially, what is provided for in this law is the Law on Public Registration. In the beginning, I will present a bill on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I would like to remind you that the current Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts has already been passed far from 1993, therefore, on the basis of the previously applicable Serbian Constitution, and that many, both social and economic circumstances, have changed in the meantime. In addition to the need to comply with the Law on Public Registration, there is also an additional need for this law to be brought into line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the case of compliance with the Law on Public Registration, that law, inter alia, provides that a public notary is also authorised to carry out works of assembly, certification and issuance of public documents on legal matters, declarations and facts on which certain rights are based, as well as to certify private documents. It is precisely this fact that it is the most important newspaper in relation to the current Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, since it refers to the actual competence to carry out these tasks. This is clearly highlighted in Article 1. The proposal for a law which provides for the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts to be entrusted to a public notary, instead of a valid solution to which basic courts or bodies of local self-government are responsible for certification as entrusted tasks. As one of the most important matters of public notebooks is just to verify signatures, manuscripts or transcripts, this way will contribute to the dispensation of courts from cases that do not constitute a trial without distorting legal certainty, since public notebooks are a high-level legal profession. The draft law also provides for an exception consisting of the provision that the copying of public documents may also be certified by its publisher. There are two reasons for this exception. The first is that if someone is able to issue a document, it is logical to be able to verify the copy of the same document, while the second reason is that the copying by the issuer brings savings to the participants in the traffic, both in money and in time, because they do not have to go to the public register. In the case of a local authority for the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, it is provided that these tasks may be carried out by any public notary, regardless of the type of documents to be certified, unless a specific law provides that certain documents may only be certified by public notebooks from a specific territory. The verification operations are carried out in the public-book office, where the draft law provides for cases where these transactions can be carried out outside the official premises of public notebooks, as well as legal consequences, infringements of the principle of territoriality. When it comes to the procedure for the certification of signatures, the draft law provides for a precise provision of a clause on the certification of signatures, the way in which the clause is drawn up on the correction, as well as the placing of a clause in the case where the documents submitted are made up of several sheets. It is also precisely arranged to determine the identity of the person whose signature is certified. In the process of certifying the signature, there is a limited duty of the public notary to carry out the tasks of preventive legal protection. In contrast to the composition of a public-book record which, according to its overall content, is a public document, only has a certification clause when certifying the signature of a public document, and the rest of the document has the nature of a private document. For this reason, when certifying the signature, the duty of a public notary is to provide preventive legal protection, but in many cases preventive legal protection is limited. Such a solution exists also in the current law, but also in a large number of foreign legal systems where the rule is provided that a public notary should be familiarised with the contents of the document only to the extent necessary to fill out the licensor. For example, the German law on the confirmation of documents prescribes that the notary should examine the correctness only to the extent necessary to determine whether there is a basis to reject the official action. In this way, German law introduces a limited duty of preventive protection. Although there are different comparative legal solutions, this bill proposes a solution as in German law. This means, in particular, that the public notifier should be informed of the contents of the document to the extent that it is necessary to complete the records of certificates and certificates and to refuse to verify the signature if, in such a case, it acquires knowledge that there is a reason for its exemption, that the submitted document contains legal work whose conclusion is prohibited by imperative regulations, i.e. that the document contains legal work for which a special form is mandatory. As well as to support the achievement of illegal and unfair objectives by certifying signatures. In other words, the public notary does not have to question the correctness with that attention and the way it does when making up the public-book record. The legal paper is also a question of confirmation of the blank signature. While some legal systems do not predict such a possibility, other legal systems allow for the widest possibility to verify the blank signature. Such an example is also present in German law, where overa blanco signature is allowed when the party brings in empty paper at the notary, with the certification clause noting that it is a blank signature. The principled position in this bill is that Serbian law should prohibit the certification of signatures on a document whose parts are not completed. However, there is an exception to this rule. Namely, the public notary may verify the signature of a document whose particular parts are not filled in, if the applicant of the document can provide indicative information on how these parts may be printed and if it proves that there are important reasons for certifying the signature before the document is fully completed and the public notary is obliged to indicate in the signature certification clause. When it comes to the matter of the part of the law governing the procedure for the certification of manuscripts, it should be noted that by confirming the manuscript, the public notary confirms that the applicant of the document whose identity he previously established in his presence has written the submission of the document, i.e. that he wrote it by hand earlier. In the part of the draft law which provides for the procedure for the certification of copying and copying, the content of the copying clause is above all prescribed. By certifying the copy, the public notebook confirms that the copy of a particular document is in conformity with the original, because the public notebook is authorised to verify the copy if it knows the language in which the document is written and the party submits the copy and the prescribed document. Before he puts the clause together on the correct public notebook, he has to compare the transcript to the prescribed correct. In addition, a public notebook may only verify a copy of a part of the document or a copy of a document if the copy is so made up that it makes it clear which parts of the original were left unwritten. In addition, it has been arranged to verify copies of public commercial and business books which confirm that a copy is fully agreed with the relevant part of the original book, then the method of verifying copies of the printed example of the electronic document, as well as the means of verifying the documents intended for use abroad. As regards the certification of documents intended for use abroad, as opposed to the jurisdiction of other certificates, the exclusive jurisdiction of the basic court is prescribed, since such a solution is contained in the law on the legalisation of the ICs in international transport. I would especially like to highlight the transitional solutions in the bill. Since public notebooks are due to start working on 1 September 2014, it is envisaged that, in the next six months, besides public notebooks, certification operations continue to be carried out by primary courts and municipal administrations in order to avoid possible problems that would arise as a result of the transition to a new competence for the performance of these tasks. In addition, since there is a possibility that public notebooks may not be appointed in certain municipalities over a long period of time, transitional provisions provide for basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations to be carried out in these municipalities until the appointment of public notebooks. Finally, I would point out that this law, like the other two legislative proposals, is scheduled to enter into force and start to apply as of 1 September 2014, as the same day is set for the start of full application of the public records law. I would also like to present a basic solution containing the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity. The application of the 1998 Immobility Transport Act was also made on the basis of a previously valid Constitution of Serbia, which recognised as an equal form of property private, state and social property, bearing in mind that a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in 2006 that envisions the conversion of social property into private property, as well as the existence of public property which, apart from state property, implies both the property of autonomous provinces and the units of local self-government, and on the basis of which the Public Property Act was adopted. It is necessary to comply with the law governing the movement of immovable property with those legal acts. In addition, the Public Note Act provides, among other things, for contracts on the availability of immovable property to be made up in the form of a public-book record, as well as for these transactions to be exclusively competent for public notebooks, and it is also necessary to carry out mutual harmonisation of the Immobility Transport Act with the Public Note Act. In view of the need to intervene in more than half of the provisions in the applicable immovable transport law in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the making of the rules, it was necessary to propose a new law governing the transport of immovable property. The basic provisions of the law, or the draft law, lay down the basic principle that the traffic of immovable property is free, with the exception that specific laws may provide for certain restrictions. This solution is in line with Article 88. The RS constitution, which stipulates that the law can limit use and availability when it comes to land. The draft law defines the concept of immovableity and the concept of real estate transport, which implies the transfer of property rights. The most important newspaper contained in the draft law, which is also the main reason for its proposal, refers to the form of legal work which carries out the traffic of immovable property. As you are familiar with the Public Note Act, contracts on the availability of immovable property are intended to be made exclusively in the form of a public-book record. This means that it ceases with the current practice contained in the existing law that the real estate contracts are made up of the parties themselves and that the court only confirms that the parties have signed the contract. Not getting into the content of the contract at all. The decision contained in the draft law that immovableity contracts are made up in the form of a public-book record is to achieve greater legal certainty since these contracts are made up of the holders of specialised judicial professions for the collection of such acts, i.e. public notebooks. This will avoid any disputed situations that may arise in the event that the parties themselves draw up a contract, which could result in judicial proceedings in order to interpret the disputed provisions of such a contract. In addition, the public notary is obliged, both in accordance with the public records law and with the public-book rules of procedure, to take into account the interests of both parties and to warn them of the possible shortcomings of their proposals. In addition to the quality of such a solution, it should also be pointed out that according to the public notation law, the public notebook is professionally and materially responsible if certain shortcomings occur in the public-book record itself. As is the applicable law. The draft law regulates the way in which the right to prevent purchases is exercised. In the case of immovableity, it is also prescribed that a legal protection of the right to prevent purchases is obtained by filing a claim with the competent court in the case of sale of immovable property which has not previously been offered for sale to the rightholder of an obstacle to purchase, i.e. where the immovableity is sold under conditions more favourable than it was offered to the rightholder of a cross-purchase. By pressing charges, rightholders of the right to prevent the purchase, who is injured by that right, may request that the immobility contract be announced without fact. The specific provisions of the draft law prescribe the futility of the immovable transport contract if it is concluded under pressure, or as a result of violence. In addition, the provisions of this Chapter of the Law provide for issues relating to the alienation of immovable property, the acquisition of immovable property in favour of the Republic of Serbia, in the event that the owner of the immovable property is subject to a unilateral declaration of the right of property, and the obligation for a public notary is imposed on the public notary to estrange the immovableity of public property, which is mandatory to deliver to the competent attorney who can bring legal remedies in order to protect the right of property. The transitional provision of the draft law regulates a legal situation resulting from the possibility provided for in the Public Note Act that this law is applicable even though public notebooks are not appointed in all municipalities. In view of the fact that the draft law provides for exclusive local competence for making up a public notary record, it is necessary to provide for a non-scheduled public notary contract for the transport of immovableity to the official area of the public register in order to prevent increased costs for citizens and legal persons involved in the legal traffic related to immovableities to be incurred by those cases. In the end, let me introduce you to the draft law supplementing the law on court fees. The Public Note Act provides that certain legal transactions must be completed in the form of a public notary for whose composition public notebooks are competent. However, given that according to the Law on Public Registration for the start of the application of the law, it is not necessary to name public notebooks in all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, it is envisaged that in municipalities that are not appointed public notebooks of tasks for which they are solely competent to carry out basic courts. Since the work of making up public records is a newspaper in our legal system, it is necessary to set a judicial fee for the conduct of these cases by the basic courts that will carry out them until the appointment of all public notebooks. For these reasons, the tax tariff of the Court Tax Act is supplemented by the introduction of a new heading 13a, which determines the level of the court fee for making up legal transactions in the form of public records. As the basis for determining the level of the court fee for making up legal transactions in the form of a public note, the relevant value of the property that is the subject of legal work is the relevant value. In addition, a reduction of the court's tax on a gift agreement between parents and children is also foreseen, as is the increase in court tax in case the public record is made up of a number of parties. For the purpose of forming a pre-contract, i.e. the addition or termination of an existing contract made in the form of a public record, half of the intended fee shall be paid. As I said here, the law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 September 2014. I'd like to finish my opening presentation with this. I thank the MPs for their attention and I hope that after the debate in the principles and details of the proposed laws will be adopted in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7646	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vesna Besarović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7647	Madam President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, import the bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts I believe that the adoption of this bill is really very important for the effective and effective application of the public record work that needs to be applied within a few days, the truth, as we have heard and as we know, with a great delay in the Republic of Serbia. These three laws, which are due to enter into force on 1 September, which follow the Law on Public Registration, will actually enable the effective application of the Law on Public Registration. The proposal for a law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts regulates matter, in fact, three substances - the matter of the certification of signatures, a copy of the manuscript and a copy of the copy by public notebooks, with the fact that in those municipalities where public notebooks are not selected, the work will continue to be carried out by the courts, i.e. by 1 March, we will have duality in order to introduce the work of the public notebooks. According to the Public Note Act, the public notebook, in addition to other transactions, is also intended to carry out tasks to verify statements and private documents. Since the entry into force of this law, this jurisdiction has been a part of the jurisdiction of the primary courts and municipal administrations. The verification of signatures, transcripts and manuscripts may be carried out by any public notary, unless a specific law provides that certain documents may be verified in certain notebooks or notebooks on a specific territory. As a rule, jobs are done in the public record room, but extremely they can be verified and out of it. About this, I have a professional comment. Namely, if the signature, manuscript or copy is without a justifiable reason certified outside the public record office, which provides for Article 4 of the bill, that is not the reason, it is said in the bill, for the non-fulfilment of the certificate, or for the certification clauses to take away the property of the public documents. Does this mean, then, that public notebooks are free to verify outside their offices, by their discretionary authority, is that not questioning legal certainty and creating arbitraryness in assessing justifiable reasons? My proposal would be to consider supplementing or reshaping that part of Article 4. In Article 11, a limited duty of public notebooks to carry out the tasks of the so-called ‘preemptive legal protection’ in the process of certifying the signature, where only the certification clauses have the property of a public document, we know that the document retains the character of a private document. By accepting the German system in confirming the documents, the public notebook should be familiar with the contents of the document. We would say "received faceie" means "at first sight", to the extent that it is necessary to fill out the overa list, i.e. it is not responsible for the content and accuracy of the documents submitted, nor is it obliged to determine whether the applicant has the right to sign the application. The law states cases where a public notebook has the right to refuse a signature. In any case, he doesn't have to question correctness with that attention he does when making up a public record. Should it, for example, be one suggestion for Article 11, that this refusal to verify the signature by the public notary is because the review of the "received facie" found that the document had some shortcomings, that the assessment of the public notary was made on the document submitted by the applicant or that it was found in the files held by the public notary? It seems to me from the point of view of legal certainty that it would be good, because then the applicant can, with that correction, appear with another public notary who may be more tolerated, have different criteria and accept to verify that correction. Next thing you know, it's article 27. The confirmation of the printed copy of the electronic element also seems to me to be one of the very important things today in the era of electronic communications. We have a situation here that the public notebook confirms that the printed copy is consistent with the original document, the source in electronic form, provided that the printing of the copy is made under the supervision of the public notebook. The member provides that before the printed copy is certified, the public notebook must examine whether a qualified electronic signature has been used. I therefore conclude that in those documents, e-mails, correspondence between parties where there are no electronic signatures, does this mean that such documents cannot be certified by a public notary, i.e. Does this mean that unsigned electronic documents, such as correspondence, cannot be subject to confirmation by a public notary? The law also provides for one exception in terms of overestimated public documents. It is predicted that a copy of the public documents may be certified by its publisher. I completely agree with Mr. Secretary. It's been a dilemma before if it can be allowed. It is from the population of pragmatism a good solution. It's a solution that may have suffered some criticism from the point of view of legal certainty, but I think the reasons for pragmaticism are stronger, that they're revolving. However, I would then, starting from the fact that the issuer of the public documents has the moral capacity to carry out a copy, a valid copy of such a document, provide that he must also possess the technical means necessary to verify such an document, because the certification of the document assumes and possession of certain technical means. Therefore, in order for him to carry out that activity, he must know how to carry out the overa, to have the appropriate seal, to have the appropriate book, etc. As regards the second law, the Law on Transport of immovableity, as we have already had the opportunity to see and hear, the largest newspaper of this law refers to the form of transfer of property rights to immovable property, whether it is a fee or no compensation, and also to the transfer of the right of use when it comes to immovableity in public property. Under the soon applicable law of 1 September, the immovableity contract will have to be concluded in the form of a public-book record. That won't be possible anymore, it's a commitment now. In order to conclude this contract, a public register in which the property under the contract is located will be responsible. Otherwise, such contracts will not produce legal facts. It really seems to me that this is a good solution confirmed by practice not only in the region, not only in the EU, but it can be said today in most countries in the world. The advantage of this solution is that the legal certainty measure is really increasing, which the public notebook is not a lawyer that protects one side, but is neutral. He protects the interests of both sides. He's a representative of the state, he's a civil servant in some way, and he provides a higher level of legal certainty and professionalism. What is very important, the public notebook corresponds professionally and with property for any legal lack of records it has made and the traffic of immovableity is being carried out. There has been criticism and there will be criticism about this change in immovableity, above all because it will reduce the turnover of the contract in the law offices, in the Immobilities Transport Agency, etc. When I say traffic, I mean a cut in profits. However, I really think that a far greater degree of legal certainty will be ensured. In particular, it seems important to me that the public notebook will have an obligation to immediately deliver that record to the court of local law, or to the court of which the property which is the subject of traffic is located. It will also be obliged to deliver this to the Public Revenue Administration, or tax authorities, on the basis of which the tax authority will be able to immediately deliver a decision on the payment of real estate tax. Thirdly, if the object of immovable property is a public property, a lawyer will be informed, who will have accurate records and the ability to control the traffic of public property as a protector of public goods. The third law is the law on additions to the Law on judicial fees. In particular, the Public Note Act provides that certain legal transactions are to be concluded in the form of a public-book record and are to be drawn up by public notebooks. However, as we have learned, about 100 are selected, or placed public notebooks. This means that they cannot accept the overall action that the basic courts have performed so far. Therefore, the basic courts will continue to carry out their work primarily in areas where public notebooks are not selected. In order for this activity to be adequately approved, judicial fees must be set for the conduct of such cases of the basic courts. The basis for determining the amount of the court fee is the value of the property in the specific case. Therefore, since the Law on Public Registration begins on 1 September, it is necessary that this law enters into force also on 1 September so that courts carrying out public-book jobs as entrusted transactions can charge certain fees. In this regard, I have one question that is not very directly related, which refers to tariffs on public-book services. As far as I know, these tariffs have not been published yet. It is interesting to ask whether they will correspond to the level of court fees proposed in the proposal for this law or whether the criteria for determining the services provided by public notebooks, depending on the type of services, will be different and by what criteria? Of course, it's not a question for you, Mr. Minister, but it's simply something I want to say as part of this topic. This would end the exposure. Finally, I would like to inform Parliament, our Assembly, that the SDPS will support the proposals of all three laws, i.e. the law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions, the law on the transport of immovable property and the law on the addition of the Law on judicial fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7648	Thank you very much. The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7649	Dear Ministers, honourable presidents, honourable fellow MPs, at the very beginning, I would like to say that the parliamentary group will certainly support these three laws. I wouldn't pay too much attention to every law individually, but what we have to realize, to say about the 1st September that comes in a day and the entry into force of the Law on Public Registration, it is certainly necessary to customize and comply with these laws that stand before us today so that the job of the notary can begin to take place finally in Serbia as well. Given that this is a practice that has been working for 50 or 60 years in developed European countries, I can say that I am proud, as well as my parliamentary group, to the embezzlement and adoption of these laws. What European notaries are doing, and possibly Serbian notaries as of September 1st, are desert debates, contract certification, corporate registration contracts and all those things that courts have done in municipalities and cities so far. What's symptomatic of all this is that we've been going through a period where there's certainly been abuse of all these things. During this greater transparency that the notaries now have, which they can show about the purchases of objects, apartments that in the previous years, especially before 2010, made a problem, and Serbian citizens certainly remember that on many occasions they sold the same apartments, more buyers who took loans, sold their properties, and in many cases stayed on the street. That one apartment that was sold is one apartment and can only be given to one buyer. I'm sure these things will be prevented and the laws we need to adopt at this session will prevent that kind of thing. For example, the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions and the draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes suffers some technical changes, while in the proposal for a law on the transport of immovableity, which I have read very carefully, I noticed, there is another additional security for the parties who make contracts for the purchase of immovable property, which is that notaries also verify pre-contracts. This means that the number of litigations that we have in courts will be reduced, where customers generally prove that they paid for a storekeeper's caparu, and the seller slows it down in a rough situation, so we're still going to get into a situation where people live off their jobs, not from fraud. It is something that the Unique Serbia will certainly support. Basically this dispensation of courts, which have done mostly not judicial affairs, will certainly contribute to this law, and the possibility of transparency of notaries, which will be able to enter the field and determine exactly what it is, will certainly reduce the large number of abuses that have taken place so far in these affairs. Once again, Unique Serbia will certainly support these laws and we will vote for these three laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7650	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7651	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly support the draft laws we are discussing today in the voting day. Following the opening presentation by the promoter, specifically Minister Selakovic, the SPS parliamentary group believes that with one specific analysis, a number of amendments should be submitted to the observation of what we are discussing today, which should point out that the SPS parliamentary group, in order to improve the quality of this law, has submitted a number of amendments, which I consider to be important ministers, that you will have a certain understanding and that, accordingly, you will respect some of these amendments, or adopt them. Now that we're discussing this set of judicial laws, because we can call them that, first of all, I'm going to start with a law that I consider to be of special importance, which is the Law on Transport of Immobility. The adoption of the Law on Transport of immovableity, the SPS parliamentary group considers that not only the objectives set out in the interpretation of the Bill's proposal are achieved but also other objectives are achieved, and, above all, one of the objectives which is undoubtedly the most significant in each legally regulated state, which is the legal certainty of citizens as a participant in the legal transactions of immovable property. By meeting this goal, the Republic of Serbia is approaching the EU, i.e. membership in the community of European countries, because this is how we achieve what we want long ago, which is that investors are drawn through the increased level of legal certainty and that investors do not bypass the Republic of Serbia, and especially in a situation where their arrival in our country is something that is necessary. The SPS parliamentary group strongly supports changes in the proposed Immobility Transport Act, thus finally eradicating the archaic and overcome legal institutes. At last, forms are defined, visions of property. Finally, from the legislation, this law, the social property, which has not only been overcome, but the non-existent form of property, so we come to an agreement with that body of law that regulates this area, and above all I mean the Law on Public Property, I mean the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, here I mean some other laws that regulate this matter as well. However, it should be pointed out that this is just the beginning, Mr. Minister, of a legislative process to be continued. Why? Because the forms of property can not only be defined by this body of law, it must be approached and amended by other legal acts. It is known that it is in the process of making a civil code. It is also known that this code defines the issues that are currently under discussion in the light of the debate, as regards the Immobility Transport Act, and is particularly linked to what is crucial. It is that private property is affirmed in the best possible way, so that citizens, through the recognition of this legal institute and the application of the legal institute, can ensure their legal certainty, i.e. the security of their property. Whether a civil code or a public property code will be passed, then a mortgage law, it is doubtless a body of law required and a parliamentary group of SPS expects that the law Corps will soon be in the assembly procedure. Also, the SPS parliamentary group supports the changes and additions of earlier system solutions through this law, which are linked to the right to prevent purchases. I'd like to stay here for a while to explain this legal institute. I am convinced that we share the view that by more precisely defining the right to interfere with the purchase, far better protection of the right to prevent the purchase is realized by what the citizens long ago wanted. Why? Because our courts are filled with lawsuits, where illegalities are just emerging through the threat of the right to prevent buying, the futility of legal matters resulting from the threat or violation of the right to prevent purchase. It seems to me now that this law makes it far clearer and more precise. What the SPS parliamentary group has supported is precisely this trend to finally free the courts of large ballast disputes, which are arising from the violation of the right to prevent buying, where the principles of a reasonable trial will be respected, where we will avoid courts taking into account the metrics of something that can be pre-warned, and the pre-arranged public notebooks, given that they will also be in their jurisdiction what is fundamental, which is preventing corruption, preventing abuse, referencing parties to certain infringements of the rights of purchase, as regards the illegal availability of co-owned work, infringements of the rights of the rightholders of purchase if the immobility is sold contrary to the provisions of this law, as well as in all other cases that are prescribed here. What seems to me not to be highlighted in the opening part, and perhaps it would be good to comment specifically, is to transfer property rights, to transfer property rights to immovable property at the same time to the right of disposal and to land on which the immovable property is located and to the extent that the land represents land for the regular use of the facility. This land for the regular use of the facility is regulated by other laws, and above all by the Law on Planning and Construction. For the sake of a reminder, it should be pointed out that the Law on Planning and Construction clearly specified which is the size of the land which, as a land for regular use of the facility, can be transferred with the right of property to immovable property, which is exactly what land corresponds to the minimum area for the formation of a building plot. The law states that such a provision is applicable if the contract does not define otherwise. Of course, this respects the autonomy of the will of the parties and that contractors have the right to define what is the scope of the land that is transferred with immovableity as a land for regular use. In any case, these rightful contractors cannot have more rights than they themselves have, or they cannot pass on to another person something I cannot dispose of. All these qualitative changes to the Law on Transport of immovableity undoubtedly indicate that we are coming to a good legal solution. However, Mr. Minister, I would like to point out to you two of the problems that I have highlighted both on the Committee on Justice and on the Committee on Law and Constitutional Affairs, because I think I need to analyse them in particular. In fact, in the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Transport of immovableity, it is defined that public-booking activities continue to be performed by courts in those cities and municipalities where public notebooks are not appointed, and that the courts will do so until the appointment of public notebooks in these cities and these municipalities. What the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group particularly insists on is to make sure that in this way we come into a situation to harm one of the constitutional ones, and hence the legal jurisdiction of the courts, which is the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges and the incompatibility of the judicial function with any other function. In particular, it is not disputed whether judges have qualifications, whether they have professional references. There is no doubt that they have them, no doubt that this job of judges can do very well, but it can be doubtful that the public-recorded records confirm judges. The judge confirms something which is in exclusive jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of the Public Registration Act in the jurisdiction of the public notary. In this case, the public-book record is a legal institute which is precise and clearly defined by the provisions of the Law on Public Registration. Is in that situation, so-called. The delegated powers, in which we failed to amend the Law on Courts, have we not amended the provisions of the Law on Judges, do these delegated powers imply at the same time the possibility of counter-functioning in relation to the provisions of these laws that I have mentioned? Therefore, as regards the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, so does the provisions of the Law on Judges. If he signs a public-book record, the judge signs him as a judge, not as a public notary. I'm not sure how the constitutionalists would view this legal situation. On the Justice Committee and the Legislative Committee, we had controversy over these facts, but I am sure that the SPS Group believes that you should have in mind this extremely well-intentioned suggestion, not to view them as criticism, but simply to observe it through the prism of something that may cause consequences. What if the provisions of this law are brought under the Constitutional Constitution initiative by the Constitutional Court and what if they appear unconstitutional and we have a huge number of overtures that public notebooks will achieve by then? I think we should consider this very well-intentioned suggestion, because the SPS parliamentary group in that direction has offered other solutions through the amendments. In the SPS parliamentary group, we are aware that both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice are burdened with a really big problem, which is that there are still not enough public notaries who passed a public-recorded exam and who are appointed to perform a public-book function. Thus, certain cities and certain municipalities have no public records at all because no one has even applied for a public-book exam, such as the case in my town in Uzic. But what could be a solution, so in that sense, and I ask you to consider it, is that these jobs are not entrusted to judges and courts, regardless of what the courts and judges are in the process of education so that these jobs can be done in good time, but that these transactions are entrusted to the appointed public notebooks of neighbouring cities and municipalities, and those who are on the records of public notebooks and who meet the conditions for carrying out public-recording activity in accordance with the provisions of the Public Note Act. In the absence of such public records in neighbouring cities and municipalities, however, it would be logical for such transactions to be entrusted to the performers of the duties of public notebooks or public-recording deputies, for which there is no doubt a foothold in the provisions of the Public Note Act. Finally, these provisions of the Public Note Act indicate that a public notebook of its work can also be carried out outside the workplace, or the workplaces, outside the premises of its public-book office and thus can be brought into a situation to avoid, at least on the principle of analogy, the situation in order to entrust the public-book activities to judges and courts under the prism of constitutionality. The next problem I wish to affirm, and I affirmed it on both committees, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, is attached to the provision of Article 4. The Law on the Transport of immovableity, which points to the so-called Exceptional competence of the public notary to draw up a public-book record when it comes to immovableity traffic, i.e. the drawing up of a contract to be in the form of a public-book record. The profession has already expressed its position and the attorney's position and the courts have sided that it should not be the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks, that there is so-called. Solemnisation or legal institute for the solemnisation of private documents, and to make it more clear to the citizens, it is to confirm private documents and that there are parallel-laws that we could apply in a specific situation, such as solutions made in some of the system provisions in Croatia, especially in Montenegro, where in Article 51a. The law on CG notaries, I will read it, is unequivocally standing – participants of legal work can make private corrections on this business to confirm with notaries if the private document is in accordance with the provisions of this law on the form of a notary act and the contents of the notary record. The notary shall confirm the correction referred to in Article 1(1) without drawing up a specific notary record in such a way as to provide for the information provided for in the law on the correcting of the document, in which case the confirmed document shall have the property of the notary record. We have a situation that we could, in parallel-law and this one provision to systemize and thus relax and lawyer, I hope that the President of the Assembly will fully agree with me, both mediators and legal clinics and legal aid services, so all those who show legal assistance. Why am I pointing to this? Because there is complete autonomy and constitutional freedom of every citizen to address legal aid to anyone who can qualify for such legal assistance, which means that they can be lawyers and legal clinics and public notebooks and mediators and legal aid services at the level of local self-government. If so, and so, then we come into a situation where, with the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks, in a particular case, we usurp citizens' rights to this freedom when it comes to the establishment of a legal instrument, they don't take advantage of it. Why would a citizen have to run from a lawyer or a legal clinic if in a qualified way one can put together a private ID and go to a public-book office where it will be possible for him, or where this legal work will be done? In any case, we come to a little conflict with the provisions of the Law on Lawyerry. I'm afraid we're also going to have a conflict with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, especially where it's available. primary free legal aid, where any of those entities can provide any citizen of RS with this legal assistance exactly as I have explained, which is by assembling a private ID. I think in that direction we could consider this my proposal as something that could be a good system solution. Finally, when we talk about these legal solutions, it should be pointed out that it is not disputed that the Law on Oversight of Signatures, Prescribings and manuscripts is in some way like the Law on Public Notes, and that is the essence. The bottom line is that right now, through the copying, manuscripts and signatures, public notebooks get with this law full capacity and that far more precisely and clearly define their powers, rights, competences, and in any case, in a practical sense, their quality of work will be far, far better. What's also important to point out is that through, I'm going to go back to the Law on Transport of immovableity, that there's something else that matters through this law. It is important that this law finally regulates the issue of giving up property rights on private property, on property owned by a natural person, i.e. a citizen for the benefit of the state, or the Republic of Serbia. So far, in existing legal solutions, we have not had one such norm and I think it is a good thing that such a norm is now contained in the provisions of the Immobility Transport Act and that is one qualitative shift. However, I will again point out from the aspect of the protection of all those whom I have pointed out as legal aid providers, and I am above all thinking of law enforcement because I come from law enforcement and all other types of legal aid, I ask you, Mr. Minister, that you once again bear in mind all this which the Socialist Party's parliamentary group has pointed out and that through the amendments, you try to find a quality solution that will improve the existing draft law in any case. I will repeat once again that the parliamentary group of the SPS, and especially after the analysis of our amendments, will, in every respect, support this law in the Voting Day, not only this one but a complete set of laws, so also the Law on Court Taxes, i.e. amendments and additions to that law, the Act on Oversight of Signatures, Transcripts and manuscripts, as well as the Law on Transport of Immobilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7652	The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7653	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, this set of laws today on the agenda that we are considering is one big step towards the EU, primarily in terms of establishing a rule of law in our country, which is still at a low level. The adoption of a set of these laws should contribute to greater legal certainty, investment security, real estate security, transport of goods and services and the overall efficiency of our legal and judicial system. These laws, in fact, other than Germany, which is the leader in this area, are the real assets of other economically developed European countries and economically developed countries of the world. That is why the Party of Democratic Action Sandzak has congratulations on proposing this set of laws and we will vote in favour of the adoption of this law on the day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7654	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word from the heads of Parliament? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7655	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, I have listened with attention to the presentation of Mr. Minister and Representative of the ruling parties, and I am afraid I can only agree in part with their vision of the application of this law. The unquestionable fact is that these laws are important, that these laws are part of the application of the Law on Public Libraries and it is indisputable that this should exist in Serbia. I'll remind you that preparations for the adoption and functioning of these laws have been going on for years. I believe that, no matter what may have lasted too long, from the previous government, through this government, and more delays in the law, that when it was waiting so long, it should be done in the right way, not in a way that would cause complete chaos in the legal system. In particular, what's a fundamental grudge? We all know that these laws apply to a large part of the sphere of society, from the budget, to the collection of judicial fees from which the judiciary lives, to a large number of citizens who have certified various documents, which have so far been certified by municipalities or courts will now be doing so in public notebooks, meaning, in economy, making contracts, collecting real estate tax, etc. The situation of the previous days, even when we talk about Belgrade courts, is the least alarming, as citizens are skeptical about the application of new laws. For example, yesterday in a Belgrade court, it waited four to five hours on the cover, for some vague reason it worked only one counter. It just shows you how important these laws are and their application, because they directly concern the lives of citizens. What I don't understand first of all is why we're discussing this law today? About the law today, which I suppose we'll be working on on Sunday, and to get the law into effect on Monday. I think it's scandalous. Why don't we have any normal deadlines? We will not publish it in "The Official Messenger", and the law will enter into force. Why didn't we work last week? Why don't we work 25 days as the National Assembly, so we can move on Friday to be the amendments on Sunday, so we'll work the weekend, and the law goes into effect on Monday? These are things of course that do not concern the Minister of Justice, but also as regards the National Assembly that could have been called before, not on our noses to decide on these laws. And the question – what if the National Assembly does not adopt these laws? The second issue concerns the Ministry of Justice, and that's a vague matter to me in my opinion of the most important law here, it's the Law on the Transport of Immobility. Why must the exclusive authority of the public notary for the above of the immovable transport contract enter into force on 1 September? What happens if you set up a parallel application by March 1st as well as for all other certificates? Now I'm telling you, and you'll see that I'm right, that on Monday, there won't be a single agreement on immovableity in all of Serbia for the next few days. The courts will stop working, and the public notebooks chosen still question whether they have offices, whether they have equipment. We tried yesterday, my attorney's office, we have some contract clearances for Monday, to find on the notary site, anywhere, which is the address, where, how to get a client who's coming to verify the contract. There is no such information on any site you can access to search engines. So on Monday, there won't be an overture. My core regret and a grudge against the New DS and the proposal is that the conceptual texts of these laws are good, but don't let us ruin them by not working and reducing citizens' trust. That, as for everything else, there is a parallel application until March 1st, that it may be for overalignment. After all, we have submitted such an amendment and I think it would be good. For a simple reason, I don't see what would be of interest not to adopt this law, except that public notebooks may make less money, but they will earn enough through parallel application or when they become exclusive users from March 1st of the following year. Another thing why this is very important, again on the Law on Transport of immovableity, is something that again concerns a large number of citizens. I think this congregation remembers well that until recently we had a huge problem with double overtures of apartments, meaning fraud. Tens of thousands of apartments are people who deal with construction, but apparently criminally deal with construction, resell multiple times, and cheat on a huge number of citizens. In the court system when courts work overe there is a unique database where a judicial verifyer when the data on the apartment is typed cannot double-check the contract and thus a large number of frauds have been prevented. I'm telling you something that will try to happen Monday, for which this congregation will ultimately be held accountable. Has the public records, a question for Mr. Minister, been given access to such a database? If public notebooks had access to that database, if they took up the number, if they couldn't work double-overs, in that case there wouldn't be any cheated citizens. I think it's the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is not happening. I ask for an answer, and I suggest that if this does not exist again, the period until 1 March, where software, the programme would be given to all public notebooks and would therefore prevent double overtures of the contract. These are things that are really going to cause big problems in real life. We as the National Assembly can pronounce whatever we want, but it will not be realistically applied. Another law that I find interesting and have questions about, but it is a matter of decision and of the Minister and of the Government, it is the Law on judicial fees. What I'm interested in – how and why is this cab height established, when it comes to contract verifications, or how to compile public-book records about immovableity traffic? I'll read to the citizens what it's about, because the minister didn't do it: -- heading 13a, making up of legal transactions that have a form of public-book record is paid a tax on the value of the property that is the subject of legal work, and that's: up to 600,000 dinars -- from 600,000 dinars to two and a half million dinars -- from two and a half million to five million dinars -- from five to seven million -- 30,000 dinars; from seven to ten million dinars -- 36,000 dinars -- from 10 to 14 million dinars -- 42 thousand dinars -- and that's some apartment that moves from 90 to 120, 130 thousand euros; over 14 million dinars, which are rare cases, - 42 thousand dinars per thousand dinars per hour, for every million dinars, for every million dinars, for each of every million dinars, and up to six00,000 dinars of value up to 600,000 dinars. I'm interested in what criteria are these prices offended and these amounts? I think they're too high, for the simple reason that people who buy apartments, immovable property, land, it doesn't matter what, they already pay or tax on sales, and it's bigger if it's a larger amount of immovable property, or, of course, value added tax if it's new immovableities, etc. I wonder why these numbers are so big and what was the criterion? Have you done, what is far more important for the country itself, by charging these taxis, the Republic of Serbia will lose its serious income, i.e. the judicial system and the judiciary, because we know that the good part has been financed right from the court taxis, and what I'm interested in is how much less funds will get the judiciary for its operation when this payment starts and whether part of these funds will be paid to the Republic of Serbia or not as part of the taxis, or what this is all tax, as it says here, for making a public-book record or, as far as I understand, if I understand it, this is all their profit. I think all of these are very serious questions, which we have not received in the presentation of Mr. Minister, nor from representatives of the ruling coalition. As for the New Democratic Party, we will not support these laws unless our amendments are adopted, and the key amendment is to allow the parallel application of the complete system by 1 March, which I think would be good for both courts and public notebooks and the whole system. When it comes to the Act of Signing, we are generally in agreement with the text itself, but there is one thing that is very important, which is that the law provides for the release, i.e. that public notebooks continue to charge certain fees from which according to the Law on Republic Public Taxes, administrative fees, citizens are exempt from the charges of those fees. In that sense, I'll give you the details of the amendment. I think it is very important for citizens that if the same application of the rules is done, citizens should be free of charge of taxis and public notebooks for certain exceptional cases. The proposal would read as follows: In the process of certifying signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, the regulations governing the Republic's administrative tax are applied accordingly. The person who, according to the regulations laid down in Article 1 shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the Republic's administrative fee, shall not pay the award for the work of the public notary or the compensation of the costs incurred in relation to the receipt of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. So these are the categories. Otherwise, I agree that if it was free so far, there is no reason not to stay free and in the future, when their demands are met in front of a public notebook. I would point out to Mr. Minister that there is currently no charge for over-recipient fees in the event of a application for a contract for employment, social security or education documents, so no one will get rich or poor because there will be no charge for a public-book tax on over-the-counter of these documents. All in all, the principle of support for the concept of the introduction of public notation. As I said at the beginning, when we waited so long, let's do it right – delay application for March 1st, enough will be made to get public notebooks ready, to get the necessary computer programs, March 1st is close, and until then perhaps the public-book chamber fills the other notes that are missing and you get suddenly one fully functional system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7656	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7657	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the NS parliamentary group will support all three draft laws in the voting day. When it comes to the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, as well as the other two laws, I think they allow and lead to the discharge of courts, the security of citizens in court taxis and, above all, transparency. I think that the redundancy, transparency and security of citizens are three very important moments when it comes to these laws, and that is why, as I said, the NS parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day. When it comes to the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, it is the deadline of 1 September 2014, when, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Registration, the first public notebooks in Serbia are due to enter into their work, I have to express their satisfaction, and I think that as lawyers, as experts, will do their job in the interest of citizens and will primarily ensure synchronisation in a very important and daily system of total legal traffic, which is over the signature. I think the role of public notebooks is also very important from the point of view of fundamental legal certainty. According to the records I could find, I think that by now 94 notaries have been appointed and there is still a need for 277 legal experts. This law, from the point of view of profession and in my opinion, is very clear, precise, concise, not many members. In my opinion, you shouldn't expect any difficulties in his application. By a provision in Article 2. The bill of law, I think, achieves maximum efficiency when it comes to the very act of the verification of the signature, as it is predicted that a legal action can be carried out by any public notary independently of the place of residence or the place of residence of the party. This flexible solution is certainly in the interests of the citizens, as well as a logical exception in Article 1 paragraph 3 of the Law, so that the copying of public documents can also be certified by the issuer himself. The provision in Article 4 of the law also takes into account the interests of the parties, as well as the general security in legal traffic, by prescribing that the overa of the signature remains in force, even though it was made by a meatless public notary. I have a personal dilemma with that member. First of all, I'd like to ask you if, in this case, in a member of this definition, a public notary can bear any responsibility if he confirms the signature outside his jurisdiction? I'm asking you first of all because I see that in the proposal for a law on the movement of immovableity by a criminal provision in Article 15, in the form of fines, the criminal liability of a public notary is determined. Article 10, in my opinion, is very good because it gives the public notary the discretionary right to refuse to verify the correctness, even if it was sent to him for an insight into an official document that normally serves as a standard identity. In particular, the experience of a public notebook should be expressed here, because we do not have a little example in practice that there are manipulations with personal documents. When I speak of discretionary powers granted by the law in public notebooks, I must also mention the provision of Article 11(3) of point 4 which requires the public not to verify the signature if it is obvious that certification helps to achieve illicit and unfair objectives. When it comes to this law, Mr. Minister, we have only acted as a parliamentary group in this law with one amendment and suggested that the term "unfair" be deleted, because we think it is enough to say "unauthorized", because categorization "unfair" is not very clear. It is logical that something that is unfair is both illegal and illegal, or sanctioned by law, so I expect you to take into account this amendment submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group in order to only clarify the provisions of this article in the manner I have explained. When it comes to this law, I was also going to suggest that maybe we should consider modifying and laying down provisions in Article 13(4), which provides that the public notary determines the identity of a court interpreter he does not know personally and by name based on an insight into the standard photo identification document. The court interpreter is a person who owns and carries a stamp in these situations and I think it would therefore be more legally consistent that the public notary, in my opinion, determines the identity of the court interpreter in the manner described, because from the aspect of absolute legal certainty, I think that in a standard procedure that applies to all parties, i.e. witnesses of identity, the same situation should apply when it comes to court officials, because this does not require much time and it is logical that the court interpreter as an official person should carry with him some identification document. And Article 14 very precisely defines the procedure of the blanco signature. As regards the actual jurisdiction of the IC, practically the overall work of this law and the transition to public records, with one exception provided for in Article 28. where the basic courts are required to retain their jurisdiction in the control of the ICC, which is in any case in accordance with the regulations governing the legalisation of ICs in international legal traffic, and I therefore think that this is a good solution. As far as the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity is concerned, this bill is contained in all 15 members and, in my opinion, it is essential for legal regulation of the area of immovable transport. Why do I say legal order? Because this is only one but very important segment when it comes to the real estate market in the Republic of Serbia. In order for the property in Serbia to start working in the right way, I think there is much more to be done. I was recently here when we discussed and then adopted the Law on Immobilization and I said, I'm going to do it again today, so I'd like our real estate market to look like the UK. Of course, this takes a lot of time and, above all, an improvement in the overall economic, economic and financial situation. I cannot mention the period from 2006 to 2008, when, in some way, in some newer political history from 2000 to today, we have had a certain kind of expansion in this area when we have also connected our industries and, above all, construction has done very well in this area. How to reconfirm the immovableity market and thus recover it is a question to which we both here in parliament and together with the RS government should give answers in the next period. I cannot mention daily information in the media about the various problems and the disputed situations on this occasion, but I have to single out the latest case with the complete New Belgrade buildings in the settlement, Mileva Einstein Street, and as a citizen, I am particularly affected by the individual fates of people who in most cases are in debt to the banks to resolve their housing issue, and now they are in a very obvious problem. A particular problem with the aspect of trust is that Serbia's Building Directorate is mentioned. It's actually a state and what's in everything is a particular problem is that some individual responsibilities don't have. As things stand now, regardless of Serbia's Construction Directorate has offered alternative solutions to customers, there is simply no individual responsibility, no one is guilty of either investors or the Building Directorate of Serbia or the contractors. I don't think these situations can happen anymore, that responsibility must be individualised and must be determined, otherwise the state can still be on paper to create the most diverse ideas and proposals of the law in the affirmation of the real estate market, but I don't think there will be a shift. Therefore, the need for this bill to be adopted is evident, starting to apply from 1 September in order to avoid weather discrepancies in the area of immovable traffic. This law excludes jurisdiction on a public register in which the property which is the subject of the contract is located. I think it's a good thing that in this way, the public notary can verify and whether the seller had property rights, which in this way affirms certain legal certainty, which has the obligation to inform the tax authorities, which I think will contribute to the overall efficiency of the determination and collection of public revenues. I'll just say a few sentences very briefly on the draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. It is perfectly logical and natural to supplement the court tariff so that there is a legal basis for the collection of court fees for such cases, otherwise we would have come to a situation without knowing how much of these actions taken before the court cost. In any event, it would not be grounds to apply a direct analogy with tariffs under which the same legal transactions will be carried out by public notebooks. Realising the full need for these laws to be passed before September 1st, the NS parliamentary group will support all three laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7658	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Please, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7659	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, I have here three acts that essentially complete one area that we think should have been regulated a long time ago. We spoke with Minister Selakovic several times about it here in the Serbian Parliament. Of course, our objection does not go so much in terms of content itself, although we will also talk about how much we absolutely agree with some previous colleagues that the timing is very unfortunately chosen, that this regulation is passed at the last minute, that your authority is also showing in one way that it is ready and that it wants to derivate the full powers of the Serbian Parliament, that it is converted into a streaming water heater that serves only to allow MPs to come at the last moment to vote for a proposal which, of course, takes place by emergency procedure. All deadlines are over, this should have been done a long time ago. It's not done. You bring it in at the last moment and you bring it in, it seems to me, in a way that is not quite adequate, so in agreement with what you promised, nor can it solve this problem essentially. Although we support the possibility and the fact that we are introducing into our legal system this institute, which in one significant mere will facilitate the functioning of legal traffic, bond relations in Serbia, the sale of real estate and everything else that is regulated by these changes, however, there are a few things we certainly want to draw attention to, first of all, to you, ministers. We received a letter from a group of candidates who appeared in a competition for public notaries and who informed us of certain inconsistencies, the shortcomings of the process process itself and the outcome of this competition. I won't stay too long on all the details, but I'll just say some things. Namely, respected citizens, ministers, respected colleagues, all members of the competition commission were also members of the examination committee in this process. The same persons who have been examining and evaluating the public record exam since April 2013 also decided who meets the conditions for becoming a public notary in Serbia. This puts individuals in an unequal position who did not stand before the members of this competition, i.e. the committee under investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7660	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the topic. I don't think what you're saying is a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7661	What do you mean, it's not a topic? How do you expect me to explain? If you'll allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7662	Look at the bill. Go ahead, but try to fit the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7663	I have to explain how we got into this situation. We are now, at the last minute, changing the regulation that will apply from 1 September, because the government is using the situation not to allow public debate, not to allow us to talk about the problems that exist in the functioning of this otherwise needed institute. We don't understand why this is happening? Why does the minister have to intervene with you so he doesn't hear this problem he's familiar with? He knows very well what I'm talking about. Now we don't want to talk about it, that the citizens don't hear it, because it's not a topic. I think it is a subject, because it is regulated to detail what has not been done about the work of public notebooks. So, please, the criteria have been changed. The Commission received the assessment criteria based on whether they liked them, literally. In that sense, they even shared points. What is worst and what is related to this amendment to the law, you, Minister, also said earlier that it was not possible to form a public record chamber because there were not enough people elected to that function. Today in Serbia, we should have at least a hundred notebooks or notaries to function in Serbia. At this point, since you failed, but it's important to me that the citizens know that, we have 94 public notebooks. So it's not a legal condition. You formed a chamber with 94. You're missing six. Then why didn't you do it six months ago? Why didn't you do it in 2012, when 55 candidates, so most of them, passed the exam? That's what I'm interested in. What were you waiting for? So this argument falls into your water. The second thing, I find that absolutely insufficient is this number and you know it. I also believe, as some colleagues have said, that of these 94 people, most people are chosen by how they suit you, i.e. On the party line, and everyone in Serbia knows it. You deny me if that's not true. Some people were admitted at the last moment when they laid down everything they needed. The last deadline was for them to do this. They won't be in all the municipalities. The courts will continue to perform these activities in those municipalities where they are not present. You, with this proposal that you have now delivered, take away the authority of local self-government. So local self-government will no longer be authorized to perform an overa and thus a citizen who paid 200, 300 dinars for the overa in a municipality in Serbia, will now make multiple payments with a public notary. That's what you did. You took away the municipality and the little income they had. You took away some of the powers they had. You carry everything across your knees to public notebooks, which are not enough, introduce a tariff that is too high for Serbian citizens and take away the opportunity to pass cheaper in some cases, of course, in legal traffic, where so far it has been possible. I don't understand why this isn't possible anymore. With the amendment, we will ask that we try to restore that possibility for citizens to continue in local self-government certain legal affairs to be done. We've also noticed that in the public register's office he's now authorized to and the intern to verify the signatures, as you know. This is what a public intern gets, in our opinion, one of the powers that we find extremely strange when we know that there is also an assistant public notebook. The assistant public notary, whose appointment is in charge of the minister, does not have this authority, and the trainee has this authority. It's another, in my opinion, inconsistency and the bad solution you've predicted in this way. We don't understand how it's possible that the assistant doesn't have the authority, and the intern has the authority, and you choose the assistant? Unless the possibility of self-confirmation of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is given to the assistant and whose choice is prescribed fairly poor criteria, as you know, it is prescribed that the selection of assistants should take particular care of the success of the law school, etc. It's not all about interns. It seems to me that this is your failure and we hope you will correct it. We believe that a special member should be singled out in these amendments and additions to the law that will regulate the issue of IC certificates in a foreign language because we think it is possible to bring such a correction to the public notebook and ask for its cover. It would have been very easy to carry out this procedure. If the public notebook does not understand the language in which the document is written, it will request the translation of the court interpreter. After translation they will verify and indicate that the previous document has been translated. That's another thing you could have done, I think, in a better way here to solve. These three things are some of the changes that we will try to change through the amendment process. There's more. We believe that this change of law could be better, that it would be better quality, that it would be more in the spirit of time and what the needs of citizens are. In particular, I ask you to address the need to maintain the possibility of verifying the authority of local self-government. We don't understand why this is taking away the community's income which, as it stands in the price list here or the tariff, seems to be more expensive per citizen than what you predicted by changing the law. For now, so much for this in the hope that you will answer some of these questions and that you will explain a few things - why this is only done now, why is it at the last moment, why is the Serbian Parliament being brought into this situation so that it can't debate the laws in quality, that we can't have a public debate quality, that everything is at the last minute, that the government wants to avoid any unpleasant questions that anyone would ask? I wonder what your focus is on the fact that the whole of Serbia is saying that the people chosen are very close to the SNS? I don't want it to be true, but here you are a minister whose word will be heard and whose word will remain a confirmation or negation of what is said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7664	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Prime Minister Nikola Selakovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7665	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as always, I try to monitor with a high level of attention the presentations of distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. When something is said that is not true, something that is half-truth or something that is badly interpreted, I find it necessary to answer, deny something, prove it's not true, indicate that it's half-truth or in a different way that I criticize or support what one of my predecessors is a speaker from the parliamentary benches and said. To start with what is often present in the discussions we have on laws, even when I am able to be an authorised representative of the promoters. Indeed, when a citizen listens to the presentation of an esteemed predecessor, he might say that, how is it possible that a public intern can do something, and a publicist assistant can't do something, and let's say it's about the overwrite of signatures, transcripts, manuscripts? It sounds illogical, we'll all agree with that, but I tell someone who claims to read the Law on Public Registration, so in Article 42 of that Law, he sees what jurisdiction it is, or what jobs a public-book assistant can do, so he can see that a public-recorded assistant can do all kinds of business as a public notary, other than putting together a public-book record or soloization. Therefore, the roof law on public records provides for a public-book assistant to be able to do so. The law, i.e. the proposal for a bill on the certification of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts, provides the possibility that these tasks, which are now carried out in the largest number of cases by a counter-officer, who has the most frequent mid-skiller, can also be carried out by a public-recorded trainee. We'll agree that that's quite all right, because a public-book intern is a person who has to have a degree in law school. When it comes to, as it is said, taking away the authority of local self-government, it is very clear that those powers are entrusted to local self-government, but also to courts. Therefore, as a trusted authority, it can be passed on to someone else if the state makes such a decision. I think it is certainly in favour of the legality of legal traffic to move this into the jurisdiction of the public notebook, because that is exactly what the most basic and everyday work of the public notebook is. That's exactly what I'm Let's not talk about the position that's been taken when the candidates for public notebooks are trained, where, let's say, some informally busy stance that they have in their public-book offices to hire people who today in local self-government units or in courts are working on over jobs. I think it's for the state and how well, because that's how the preconditions are created to develop our electronic administration, to disburse the state budget of expenditure going that way, and to certainly increase the level of legality of legal traffic. The same predecessor said something that I have absolutely no problem with, because the only interest I have is that the job I'm doing is absolutely legal, that I represent the interests of the state first and that as a state official I don't know about party interest. Maybe someone else used to have a completely different view. Maybe it's funny to someone. I don't think that's funny. The one who laughs at it testifys to his inconclusiveness when I say that a public official should not know about the party but about the general state interest. I've never seen a convincing majority of candidates appointed public records before in my life. I have to admit, I know some people from the justice department who have approached this exam and I wouldn't have known them if I hadn't been on my own to do it. The quoted memo here to the MPs can be considered with great attention when a signature is found underneath it. Anonymous complaints and memos, which are in the nature of our people, I can read, assess their seriousness and react on that basis. I got a memo from 10 candidates who weren't appointed, gave them reception at the Justice Department's offices, talked to them for an hour and a half, and I get the impression that they went off with the correctness I had at that meeting with them. I asked them one question and I can look into each of these candidates freely and ask – do you think you who are not appointed to be appointed and those who are appointed not to be anything different? I'm telling you right now, she wouldn't be. No criteria have been changed, because the criteria are prescribed by law. To do one big and important thing for Serbia's legal system properly, I ask you not to be a subject of political subscribing, but I will send a well-intentioned message to those who were bold to place their signature and to say that they are dissatisfied with the decision, which is to use the legal means at their disposal. One who is not satisfied, who thinks that something is done is contrary to the letter of the law, has the right to address the Administrative Court of the Republic of Serbia and to press charges for the initiation of the administrative dispute. I think it's a fair and correct relationship to this. Such an attempt to plant a party appointment has been performed, please bring it in and prove it. There's one attitude that's been taken and I'm going to say it in public for the first time, I haven't dated that information in public. There's a significant number of dissatisfactions, which won't put their signatures, which come from the order of the perpetrators who were in the previous period... I mean one part of those who ran. No one could prohibit such people from passing exams and no one was allowed to do so. There were executors who in the previous period immediately before the implementation of this process, two, three, four months, assigned an extremely large number of cases, which were running for public records. The unique view was that someone who entered a new, young judicial profession in Serbia, certainly with the goal of developing it, improving that profession and himself in it, could not be acceptable to get out of the profession after six months, a year or two, to leave behind a large amount of unfinished work and to get into another job. If she sees it as a public-book chamber when she conducts this contest, she will take such a stand. I'm asking you to be perfectly correct in one thing, because this is a state business, and I, as such, understand it, and I didn't take it for a moment as a party. Is there an existing tendency in Serbia that when something like this is carried out, there is a possibility or attempt to exert political influence? It's not a secret. Yes, it is. Anyone who would approach me to ask me something about the appointment of public notebooks during the duration of the competition or after the competition, when I was obliged to decide on this, could only get one answer from me, and I, under full personal, moral, material and criminal responsibility, would also be held before you in the National Assembly, that what was done in the appointment procedure would be done on the basis of the law and nothing more. Any further conversation on my part has been interrupted. There have been such attempts not only on people who belong to the stranger I am in. There have also been attempts by people who are members of opposition political parties. So, responsibly, what is said – named after the party line, is absolutely false. It's an absolute lie. I talked to 10 people who signed a memo asking for a reception at my place with eight people who came to that meeting. None of them said that. Absolutely none. For the sake of state interest and the security of the legal order and the judicial system of the RS, please allow this to be resolved by the only institution that is competent, the only one, and that is the Administrative Court of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the 100 candidates are concerned, that is, 100 designated public notebooks, the state has done everything in its power to appoint 100 public notebooks. It was also appointed to all 100 that there were no candidates who said – I can only be a public notary and I can't think of anywhere else to run. I'll give you examples. We have two examples in Serbia where people competed for another city, elected for the city and will start working as public notebooks. One of the predecessors said-- there's no list anywhere, we don't know where there's gonna be a seat of the public records office, etc. Today at 14.00 hours, this list will be on the site, the website of the Ministry of Justice, the website of the notebook.org and will then be forwarded to all units of local self-government, all cities and municipalities to publish this information on their websites. I understand, and often for criticism, and I like to hear reasoned criticism, some fellow MPs stand a good desire, sometimes politics stands, and sometimes a pure political awakening, today I'm an opposition, so it's my job to criticise, and I can agree with that. There's nothing to argue about. Where I hear reasoned criticism, I'm very happy to answer it and look back. In some means of public informing the previous days, we were able to see tenent texts that went on to be a complete mess. An analysis was carried out when it came to the price of the public register's work and the price the citizen had to pay, or had to pay in the previous period. You'll be surprised. For what affects the average citizen of Serbia in the biggest legal affairs, the price is lower. This price is lower. For whom is this price higher? For one who makes legal deals that are extremely high value, for one who makes legal work worth more than 14 million dinars, that value is higher. It's a line somewhere not only followed by the Republic of Serbia. Whoever makes more money pays more taxes and whoever makes a bigger deal will pay more. The last thing about that appointment, the first, the only and last time, was conducted by the ministry commission. If I had participated in the draft law in 2011 I would have made a very different provision. They were inherited. I'm not criticizing them right now. I am going to say very openly that this Law on Public Registration, which was passed by the Government in the period from 2008 to 2012, is a good law. There are some things that are his shortcomings, some that are his inaccuracy, indiscretion, but it's a good law. Why would I be ashamed to admit it and say it? All that follows after him says how much we in Serbia have a systemic problem that even when we pass a good law on paper, if we don't do our best to systematically introduce him to life, to prepare his application, then the best law can become a bad law, or as a law he will remain good, but we will fall into the situation in which we are often in Serbia, and that is when we institutionally do not give a maximum for the introduction of a law often after that we say that the law is not right. It's not true that the law is wrong. We have a lot of laws that are legally theoretically good laws, whose application we misrepresent, and they lead to bad results and ultimately we blame the law again. Often and in the best car you can ride badly if you have a bad driver. That's what caused our big problems from the past. Fashion has become critical of Serbia's constitution in recent x years. I think of myself as one of the few who will always say without any problem that the Constitution is not a problem, but the problem with how this Constitution is applied, what it was made to be brought into life. There are some provisions that we can politically agree on or disagree on, but that's a fact. If we still have deadlines under constitutional law that are not respected, that's not the problem with the Constitution. That may be the problem of the moment when the Constitution was written why it was written like that. I don't want to get into it. I'm very responsible here to say that these things that have been said when it comes to the procedure itself are absolutely not standing. There are still a dozen details from that memo that have not been mentioned. I won't quote them. There are a few things I have to mention. I don't want to concentrate on just one presentation of one MP. There have been constructive remarks and criticism on several sides. My esteemed teacher, for example, drew attention to the fact that the certification by a public notary outside his seat is not the basis for the futility of such a certificate, but it is the basis for the disciplinary responsibility of a public notary, which I think completes the system and has some logic. I said that during the day, the addresses of the headquarters of the public notebook offices will be published that will be ready to begin work on September 1st. Also, public notebooks have access to the traffic records of immovableity which is conducted in basic courts and of course our tendency is that at one point when we have so many present in our legal system on almost the entire territory of public notebooks to keep such records in one redefined form is to cross into the jurisdiction of the public register, for example. We'll talk about it in the future, but they have organized access to this data and every access to the database will be registered. A large and wide debate has also been held within the ministry itself when it comes to revenues derived from court taxis. I have to refer to it because it is the subject of a proposal to supplement the Law on judicial fees. We in general in our judicial system for many years, unrelated to the ministry's mandate already before that, have a problem with the urgency of charging court fees. The Department of Justice is indeed working really hard to seek a good solution to order the payment of court fees, because from year to year the fees of court taxis are getting smaller, we lack a law on free legal aid that will distinguish where the court is bound by the payment of a court fee for taking certain procedural actions. Don't forget one thing, which is that it is true that part of the court taxis, i.e. the revenues from the court taxis, will no longer be realised where the public register works, but the state will also increase the VAT collection, because all public notebooks will have to be in the VAT system, because public notebooks won't be able to receive money in cash. It's something that in the surrounding countries, when allowed, has caused huge problems. We won't have a situation here, I'm in the middle of talks with permanent representatives of law enforcement in Serbia. We have a problem, so, but it's a problem that lasts more than a decade, regulating the tax obligations of a lawyer. We also have this problem that the state is weak what it has done to oblige lawyers to start running business books and actually realistically display their traffic. So, on the one hand, to improve the system of payment of court fees that remain in the exclusive jurisdiction of courts, on the other hand, increases VAT collection, which I think is extremely good. You can say now – yes, but the court tax is a public income, which is the own income of the judiciary, from which is financed by a series of activities in the judiciary. It's true, but right now, the question is the days when we won't be able to count on it anymore. I don't want to get any impression, because it's not even close to the truth, that we're simply writing off that part of our income, and we're not doing anything on the other side. We're doing just as well as we're thinking about this. Once again, I argue, therefore, public notebooks will start working on September 1st, have access to the traffic records of immovable property, information on the headquarters of public-book offices will be published on the Justice Ministry website and on the site "book.org", and forwarded to units of local self-government for which public notebooks have been appointed. The competition procedure is, I apologize for saying so long, but you know what, I could have chosen to report after each of the predecessors who spoke, and I could have chosen to look back at all the exhibitions at one point. If you think it's not good for me to talk and if you think what I'm saying isn't useful, then yes, but you know how...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7666	Go ahead, Mr. Minister. We believe this is very useful for the MPs of the National Assembly and for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7667	So, before me, seven representatives, authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups spoke. If I'd reported after everyone's presentation and said five minutes, that would have been longer than what I'm saying right now. So this is how I try to save time. Finally, as for the attempt to politicise the appointment of public notebooks, I have no problem meeting with any of the candidates, to discuss the subject. Like I did with anyone who came and spoke to me. The competition will be conducted by the Public Note Chamber in the future and the burden will be on them, and let them do the job in accordance with the law and in accordance with their own knowledge of rights, legal principles and regulations. In Serbia, more than 270 free public-book sites remain, are available to anyone who meets their requirements. The only thing I said about thinking that the principle that should not be changed is when the question of people who have recently become perpetrators, it's not professional, in any way even morally leave that profession and move on to another, and leave a lot of unfinished work. There were over ten people like that. What do you do in one situation, I have to tell you, what do you do in a situation where a candidate comes to you for a conversation that gives you information about his own status that simply isn't true isn't true? He's legalized as a judge, and he's not a judge. Is such a person worthy of performing a profession? Then that face tomorrow writes you an anonymous memo and tries to cast a shadow of doubt on the whole process. I don't think it's convenient to have a political debate about this kind of thing. The final court on this, i.e. the final decision on how this procedure was conducted, will be given by the court, and everyone should carry out the conventions, including the representatives of the Justice Ministry and the normal head of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7668	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students from Republika Srpska and Chukarica, who are currently following today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome the guests. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) I think Mr. Justice has extremely professionally given explanations and answers to the presentations of previous speakers and without even one offensive qualification, so I don't think you have the opportunity to reply. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: It is not an insult, it is a replica. Mr. Stefanovic, listen to me. Please be parliamentary to hear what I say. I think you have a chance, since you have nine minutes left, to finally say what you wanted, so I can't give you my word right now. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7669	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, today we have three draft laws in the field of justice which are primarily aimed at harmonising existing regulations and to begin with the work of public notebooks. It was heard today during a debate that the ministry had failed, that it had not been prepared, that there would be chaos because these laws had not been passed before, because there are no conditions for the work of public notebooks to begin work since 1 September. You know, when the reform of the judiciary was carried out in 2009, on January 1, 2010, chaos occurred, we were all unprepared because a group of former regime people carried out judicial reform in such a way that neither the judges, nor the parties, nor the lawyers knew what hit them. Now, it's an unprepared reform of the judiciary and it's a chaos in the judiciary. What we have on the agenda today, the application of the Law on Public Libraries is finally without chaos, has been prepared and the Ministry of Justice has worked on this for a long time. We had delayed application of the law. The bill's proposals today have been discussed for the past two months. By contrast, the consequences of the former regime's reform experiment are to return to the work of over 800 judges and 200 prosecutors by decision of the Constitutional Court, who have filed constitutional appeals, who have been returned to work and who are now handling litigation for damages and suing the Republic of Serbia, all because of chaos and unprepared reform, unlike this reform that is in line with the national strategy, which is systematic and which is done in accordance with European regulations. Everything has been prepared for the work of the public notebooks. The notebooks were registered a month ago, the names of all public notebooks of them 94 that will begin work. A working rule has been laid down to determine their working hours from 9.00 to 17.00 hours. Today's draft laws just harmonize with the Law on Public Libraries, it's natural that there's a concern of how it's going to work, because it's a newspaper. We haven't had public records in seven decades if I'm not mistaken, I found that information, and Monday they start working. It's a new judicial profession. These draft laws will contribute to legal certainty and efficiency in carrying out legal transactions, as they regulate the functioning and operation of public notebooks. There's still about 200 judges missing from the courts. Judges have a large number of cases at work and can't achieve everything on the burden of the citizens again. The work of the public notebooks will finally relieve the work of the courts, the courts will stop doing things that are not judging, but will only deal with the trial, and will finally become their priority, and citizens will come to judicial judgments within a reasonable period. Proposed laws create conditions for public notebooks to start working Monday. In particular, the draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes regulates how much tax will be paid to make up a public-book record. Do not lead the citizens astray by what you told him during today's debate that taxes are more expensive, that the citizens will pay more. That's not true. Citizens have been paying the overta in court so far. Every document has been authenticated and everyone knows how it worked. In particular, in the Novosad basic court, in the case of the clearance of the document that was the procedure? The check starts at 8:00 a.m., and the number is divided by 7.30 p.m., and by 7.45 p.m., no more numbers. Whoever wants to verify a document has to verify it in the next two or three days, to wait. An electronic appointment has been introduced, although it is still waiting on an overt of documents in the Court of First Instance, running to pay the fees standing in line, waiting all day long. Because of the overload, it started working twice a week at the New Sad General Court, also at the checkup until 17.00 a.m. We are also obliged to tell the citizens that overa document wants to be cheaper and the minister has stated that over 48 million, if a real estate transfer contract is confirmed, more than 48 million, if it's worth it, would be more expensive for 9,000 dinars than it used to be. I'm sorry, who has the money to buy real estate in that value, I don't think 9,000 dinars will mean much to him, in particular. We had an earlier tariff, if the property is purchased, whose value is three million, the amount of the tax will now be 21,000 dinars, and when legal costs and court fees are collected, this amount would now be 36,000 dinars. Pay attention to the social moment, which is more expensive real estate, it's a bigger tax. I don't see what the problem is. As regards the proposal for a Transport of immovableity Act, it is closer to being determined, and that is what my colleagues have already said about the business of immovable traffic, that is, how and how the Immobility Transport Contract is concluded, and that it is concluded in the form of a public – notary record. An important provision prescribed that the public notary is obliged to inform the parties, if it finds that the contract has already been signed in court, to include this warning in the public – a notary record, which contributes to the real security of citizens. This law contributes to compliance with the Law on Public Libraries and the Constitution, because our legal system no longer knows social property and was announced two months ago, so I don't see why it's being talked about, why it's only being debated today. Some have criticised Article 4. The proposal for a traffic law on immovableity, where it is intended to be the sole authority of a public register for an over-alignment of the immovable transport contract, and that lawyers will be out of a job. I, as a lawyer, think he will not lose his job, nor will the lawyers involved in party representation in court proceedings be left without a job, because those lawyers whose main activity was to draw up a contract have had the opportunity to go for public notebooks, i.e. to pass a public – notary exam, and they still have that possibility, since there are over 250 vacancies. Of the 94 public notebooks as appointed, 94, 50 are lawyers, which means they have chosen which activity to perform, whether to be public notebooks or to be lawyers. The minister noted that there are municipalities that do not have public records, and people had the opportunity to report, and the ministry repeatedly urged people to report, to pass a public – notary exam. We have an example of the municipality of Kikind, which has no public notebook or municipality of the city of Kralje, which has one notebook, a man from Belgrade. No one from that municipality checked in, no lawyer, thought he should work in the Kingdom as a public notary, so a man from Belgrade went to work there as a public notary. Also, I believe that the bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is a well-organized procedure relating to the very cover of the public – notary record. You mentioned an intern who would be able to verify, and I don't see why that's a problem as someone who was a lawyer intern, because a legal intern can go to trial as a lawyer, why can't a public-recording intern do an overture. The verification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, where there is no public notary, will take place in court, and I think that's a good solution, because we have countries in an environment where it's entrusted to a public notary in a neighboring place, so that in that way the right is limited, there's not so much justice available to him, and in this way he'll be able to go to court and verify his documents and he won't be able to travel to the next place. The competent ministry worked to finally get public notebooks started, to improve our existing legal system. The work of the public notebook has been waiting since 2011, and until then we have delayed the application of the law and I believe that now there are all conditions to finally start working. I hope that the competent ministry will not leave the public records and will take care of them and exercise control over them, unlike private perpetrators, which in practice proved to be somewhat out of the law on enforcement and security, or work within the framework of the law, but I think that citizens suffer a lot from the work of private perpetrators and that the competent ministry should bring amendments to the existing law on enforcement and security and take a little more care of private perpetrators. The proposed laws are good, in line with European fluids, with adopted laws. The SNS parliamentary group will be happy to vote for the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7670	Thank you. The People's MP came to the word, and now we're going to go to the list... On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (National MP Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Based on the announcement of the word. It's okay. Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis are you looking for a replica? (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I answered the line. No grounds? Of course, then. ) Mr. Stefanovic, I didn't notice the basis so you could get a replica. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: She mentioned the former regime. The predecessor quoted everything I said. The former regime? Did she mention your name and name? I can take a look at the stenogram, but I didn't hear her mention your name and name. I accept that you may recognize yourself in the former regime, but she hasn't mentioned your name and last name, and the party of the former regime has more. You'll have a chance through your nine minutes at the end to say so. According to the order of the People's MPs, according to the application for a word, there is a MP from the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7671	Dear Ministers, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliament Club will support all three legislative proposals in Dan, but what I wanted to say at the very beginning is that the authorised representative, Mr Nejko Jovanovic, the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club, Mr Minister, has already talked about this, and I think that you should look at and analyze the suggestions and suggestions that we have made in the form of amendments and Mr Jovanovic and as a Parliament club on these three legislative proposals, because you and we have one common goal, which is that we have as high-quality legislative solutions as possible. As you said in the opening statement, today we are talking about three laws that are necessary for the final and practical introduction of a public-book function in Serbia. It is true that multiple times the application of this law has been delayed. There weren't enough candidates. Not even some other conditions have been met. There are enough notebooks today. Other conditions have been met, and it's good, as you said in your statement, that the state has done everything when it comes to the appointment of notebooks. In order to ensure the necessary application of this extremely important law, the Law on Public Registration, it is important to amend and harmonise other laws, such as these three legislative proposals that we are talking about today and which will support the SPS Parliament Club in Voting Day. I think a lot has already been said, but in a few sentences, I would also like to state the reasons for this view of the SPS Parliament Club. When it comes to the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity, as far as the SPS Parliament Club is concerned, there are three things that are essential and important to us. First – more precise and clearer definition and regulation of the form of property, second – more precisely, clearer, defining the right to prevent purchase and third – the harmonisation of this law with existing and existing laws. That's already been said, but I'm only going to repeat it in one sentence, because I think it's extremely important. It is necessary to harmonise the Law on Transport of Immobility with the Law on Public Property, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2006, which provides, as you said, for the conversion of social property into private property, to introduce a new category of public property, and the current law governing this very important area was adopted in 1998, before the adoption and adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia before 2006, and it foresees as equal forms of property both private and state and social. The other thing that is of paramount importance in our opinion is the law we are talking about today, which takes effect in 2014, and then the Law on Public Registration, which was adopted in May 2011 and, as you said, a very good, important and significant law. Under the law, certain powers of local self-government courts are taken over by public notebooks, and that is very good. Contracts on the availability of immovableity shall consist in the form of public-recorded records. Public records have jurisdiction and responsibility for this job. It is therefore very important to comply these two laws – the Law on Transport of Immobility with the Law on Public Registration. The third thing that is also very important in our opinion, and as far as the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity is concerned, is that through this legislative proposal, in our opinion, it defines clearer and more precisely the right to prevent purchases when one of the co-owners wants to sell part of his immovable property or, for example, when it comes to agricultural land. We think it's good and I think you've talked about it in the opening statement, so this is about harmonising this bill with the Law on Public Records and when we talk about harmonising two laws and when you have a situation that is necessary, precisely because of the harmonisation, to change more than 50% of the provisions or articles, it's always good to go on a new legislative proposal rather than propose amendments and additions to the law. As far as the proposal for a law on the certification of transcriptions, manuscripts and signatures is concerned, this is another law that needs to ensure the full application of the Law on Public Records, as well as the Law on Transport of Immobility and the second set of reform laws that this government has set out for the purpose of once the successful reform of the judiciary. Of course, this legislative proposal is also the alignment of this law with the 2006 Constitution. By the way, the law that governs this area today, I think you talked about it, was passed in 1993. The essence of the bill that we are talking about today is that certain competences, tasks that so far have been carried out by courts, which have so far been carried out by local self-governments, are taken over by public notebooks, and we will agree fully with you, in this way the courts want to be relieved of what they are, and on the other hand, there is one guarantee, therefore, that the legal certainty of citizens is not compromised. It is our opinion that this proposal certainly gives citizens, above all, a guarantee of one legal certainty, a reduction of bureaucratic procedures, greater efficiency and savings, and when it comes to money and time. It is important to point out that we also think that it is important for public notebooks to have local responsibilities, that they will be able to do their jobs outside official premises, of course, not outside Serbia's borders, because businesses would then not produce legal facts. We believe this is important because clear and precise provisions relating to the overelement of the document are regulated when the party is unable to enter the official premises due to health problems. We also support a provision that prohibits the certification of blank signatures, as well as the manner in which this procedure is regulated. We believe that it is good that, in addition to identifying identity, the notary has an obligation to get to know the contents of the document that it confirms and to what extent it is necessary to establish that work is not prohibited, that it is not a business that helps to achieve some illegal and illegal objectives. Of course this also prevents corruption and prevents abuses and enables full respect for rights, which is the goal. I think that when it comes to this legislative proposal, there are also some practical things that have happened in practice, and what I would say right now is solved through this legislative proposal. First of all, I am referring to the confirmation of copies of public documents in a foreign language, if that language is unknown to the public notary, or if it is about some narrow professional expressions with different graphics or when it comes to documents in electronic form. Finally, the proposed additions to the Law on Court Taxes are also a logical trail resulting from the adoption of the Law on Public Registration. I have already said, as resolved legal transactions will be carried out in the form of a public-book record, and these tasks will continue to be carried out by competent courts for certain local self-governments. Of course, it is also necessary to establish a tax and that the basis for determining the compensation of that asset value is the value of the property which is actually the subject of legal work. Once again, with the suggestion that you look at the amendments proposed by the SPS Parliament Club on these three important legislative proposals, I will repeat that in the voting day, the SPS Parliament Club will support these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7672	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7673	Thank you. When some law or group of laws that are presented as systemically, advanced, European and reformative, are placed on the Assembly by emergency procedure, and when we have one too long, boring statement by the minister saying he is honest and that he only thinks about the interests of the state and not of party interests, then every honest citizen of Serbia comes to mind to worry about the situation. We have three laws that are in a united debate. They have connections, it makes sense for this debate to be common, but there's no reason for it to be an emergency procedure. The fact that it is September 1st is not the fault of MPs in this House. This September 1st would otherwise be there because it depends on the calendar, not on the will of this or the majority, but on the government's fault because it did not refer these proposals to the law on time and is guilty of not choosing an adequate number of public notebooks or notaries who could take this job seriously as of Monday. From what I've heard, three hundred and some notaries are needed for all of Serbia, if I have good information. Ninety-one is selected, which means we're entering law enforcement with less than one-third of the logistics potential to enforce the law. I don't think that's a good start, and it's not going to cause good consequences, especially if we have in mind and the part that's being said in public, we have some papers that are signed and unsigned as complaints by some notary candidates, who say that the choice was mildly riverlike, strange and not only now, but since these elections started, it means from the last government. Not to mention it started two years ago, when this political set took over. There are very interesting selected notaries. Let's say we have one elected candidate who is the brother-in-law of the Minister of Health, and then we have the son of the President of the Court, then the Secretary of the Court of Appeal, then the Director of Infostan, then the judge, then the assistant minister, and then the deputy director of the agency. Imagine that people who perform such important functions, other than brother-in-laws who are not yet in office, neglect it all and go to be public notebooks? With all due respect to this job, I am sure that we will agree that the work of judges and notaries cannot be measured and that the work of a judge or secretary of the court or assistant minister is much more important in a country than it is in a notary business, that it is a job that gives greater inspiration to those who should do so. However, the answer to why this is happening is in a law relating to court taxis, where we see that these fees are so bulky that practically this great defect in the notes is due to the fact that there is a lot of money, and then there are conditions for doubting whether these people chosen are here because they are just the best for the job or because they have some special qualities, such as the closeness of the current government or the previous government if they are chosen before that. Generally, the New Party will not support these laws. We think the traffic law is essentially a good law, but there are no conditions for its implementation from September 1st. We proposed the amendment to postpone the application of the law until July 1st next year, that the law begin with the implementation of the law from July 1st next year, and until then that the Minister, the State, the Government, provide conditions for the implementation of the law, which is the choice of all the notes necessary for the implementation of that law and that these court fees, which are not actually court fees, are fees which will be charged by the particularly selected notaries or public notebooks, to be reduced, or applied to what is the economic situation in our country now. I think you'll get the amendment fast, and I think you'll see that this reduction is going to start with 5,000 dinars, and it ends with 35,000 plus 1,500 per million more. I think it's a bad custom to even with the best intention of presenting reform laws or laws that need to advance one area for the hundredth time in an emergency procedure. This causes doubt at least, and very often it is shown that it is not just a suspicion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7674	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7675	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, home education and decency still don't allow me to qualify the presentations of my conversants as boring whatever they are, but I have to look back on something when it comes to telling me what has nothing to do with my exposure in one word, and I will ask and, if I can get my stenographic notes, to see it. I did not say that this law is systematic, that it is progressive, that it is European. I made it very clear that it was a technical alignment with the Law on Public Registration. All that is provided for in these proposals, which has not been provided for in the applicable laws governing the same matter, concerns compliance with the Public Records Act. I'm glad you're saying that -- that's right, and just before you said that I said that these are systemicly advanced Europeans, which doesn't matter. Whether someone's choice was strange or not, that's a personal impression. I'm still staying with what I said. Once again, one thing that is materially untrue is that the work of a judge is more important than the work of a notary. Some judge that, say, the judges of the Court of Appeal, let's say the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, let's say the judges of the Court of Appeals, but it's obviously not known that the notary needs to be fulfilled more than the judge of the Court of First Instance, and that's not exactly the case for head-oning when something likes or doesn't like it. I wish someone would be so honest and open to admit when something's wrong, when they say something that's wrong, just like I'm willing to say it, and I'm not, not disabling with the intention of pure disabling, even if it says something that isn't true, it doesn't matter, just say it, stick it. I've never done that in this assembly in the last 24 months. Whoever says otherwise can bring me and document me. For all I've said, I've given an argument, as I was just able to say a good law that was passed on the proposal of the previous Justice Ministry, so I can say that something is bad. Of course, it's not an obligation. If it were possible to secure the selection of all notaries, then every country in our environment would do so, and the countries that introduced this system 11 years ago have not yet selected all public records, which says that for some areas it is difficult to provide candidates who will meet the conditions, compete and report to the competition, which does not mean that we as a state will not go out with certain incentive legal norms that in more inaccessible, remote areas, not only in large cities, we provide the presence of a public notary. Earlier, one of the predecessors mentioned that, say, Belgrade's lawyer had applied for a notary post in another city. If lawyers in other Serbia's places... A colleague, Jovanovic, mentioned Uzice, in which I was born, in which none of the candidates applied for the previous two years to pass the exam. If there is no Užičana who will do so, then someone from Belgrade will apply, meet the conditions and be a public notary, and then they will lose any possible argument of complaints against him, because they have not used the time that they have been able to pass the exam and apply for candidates. I accidentally set this example because I know it. The same situation is in Vranj. The same situation is in Kruševec. The same situation is in kickinda. I think it's the same situation. Don't take my word for it, in Pirot. It's going to happen, perfectly legitimately, perfectly fine. The state's interest is to have this public notebook, that it meets the requirements and that it is qualified to do the job. Ask around, and you will see that, for example, a notary in one Germany, in which Notariat has a decades-old tradition, notary is considered a man who is a better lawyer even than a judge. He's a legal traffic controller. A very important role. You come to the judge when there's a dispute. This man has to do things so that the dispute doesn't happen. Sometimes it takes more skill. So, not more important than all the judges, but than the criminal judge, than the judge of the basic court. It needs to meet greater conditions than for these two important functions. I say again, I don't really see the need to throw something in my mouth that I didn't say. What I said, okay, but when you say something I didn't say, I find the need to react. Thank you for what you said about the law being good. This means that we have done well in his work, and we will not do any less well in his preparation. The fact that public notebooks will make up a public record which will be the only legal form for the transport of immovable property, so it is known from the moment of the adoption of the Law on Public Registration. Is that something new? No, and that law was passed in 2011. Is there anything new that public notebooks will do the work of an over? Well, no. It's defined by the Public Records Act. So it's about one alignment, as I said at the beginning of the debate, just plainly that it's either not clear to someone or it wants to spray it out and show it to a different one, which is why I'm reacting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7676	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. Will you let me explain? I did not understand, nor did I hear in any way that the minister mentioned your name and name. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You don't understand? Did he mention your name and name? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: everyone knows he was thinking of me.) Mr. Zivkovic, don't talk to the chairman like that. Please. I'll have to apply the Rules of Procedure if you continue. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the People's MP Vesna Marjanovic be prepared. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7677	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, honored guests, I believe that you, the Honored Chairman, today, right now, have injured a member of our 104th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here, let me tell you how you did it. The first paragraph of Article 104 states: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, ” and this applies not only to the MPs but also to our guests here in the hall, then on the basis of Article 104, each MP has the right to replication. So, Mr. Zivkovic, the Honorable Chairman, intervened here and asked for the right to reply, because he felt that Mr. Minister misrepresented something he had previously said and, on the basis of Article 104, Mr. Zivkovic apparently had the right to reply. Please hold to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly especially when the Minister of Justice is present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7678	Mr. Pavicevic, you read the Rules of Procedure and interpret it the way it suits you. So you have just read, if the Messenger of the people in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is abusively expressed about the Messenger of the people. That wasn't the case. Also, you did not read in the end that the use of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article was decided by the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, so I do not think there were any conditions for replication, and I have given the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7679	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I must admit that otherwise I am fascinated in life when someone who doesn't quite understands himself in some area wants to explain it, even keeps coming out and trying to say something that isn't true through simple political phrases, in general. You know, it's essential that you at least question something about public records, so you comment on it. I admit, I would never have had the courage to say yes if we were to step up about viticulture with respected experts across the street, so I would never allow it. I might read something. Well, it's just amazing that someone's claiming that the public record business isn't important, and it doesn't matter, and let's just say, the job of a judge or, I don't know, the work of a prosecutor is more important. I don't know who's doing this, but I can tell the lawyers, first of all, who are in practice, who are in the judiciary, are the top of their careers to be public notebooks. The top of my career is to be a public notary and trust me honestly in life I might like to be, but I'm not sure I'll ever be able to pass a public record exam, because in order to be a public notary, you have to complete a judicial exam that is very difficult, and every judge, prosecutor or lawyer has to have it, and then a public record that is far more difficult than a judicial exam, because a public notary, with him is everything and a knife and a cake. If anyone is already criticizing a law like this, why Mr. Minister may have a foothold, but he would have to criticise those who passed the Law on Public Records in 2011, because then we were completely unprepared for getting into all of this. That's when it's back-to-back. That's why we're having this mess today. One of the distinguished colleagues quoted here, not knowing, of course, who it was, I don't mind him, but he quoted the famous saying of Valtazar Bogisic in the general property code for Montenegro – which is born, the time does not correct. That's just the way it is. You'll have a hard time fixing this. You can pass the best possible law in the world, but if you don't have the proper preparation to apply that law, you're more of a mess than you're going to do. In our judiciary, we had such a reform that the Venice Commission resented it. Now we're getting some judges and prosecutors back to work, and they have to be paid out of the budget because someone eliminated them as it occurred to him. In this case, the ZKP, you remember, Mr. Minister, is wanted by the prosecutor's investigation, requested. We're very unprepared, and today you have to correct everything that someone's done on the other hand in order to pin it on someone or try to show how we're a country that can sustain something. That's how this law on public records was passed when it was brought in. Now through these technical measures, in a way, you're correcting all of this. I have to do it now, I've read one and the other laws carefully about the traffic of immovableity, but also about the confirmation of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, let me ask you, maybe as a layman I'll get into the whole story, and I'd like you to answer us. For example, Article 3. The immovableity law, it is said – by transferring property rights to a building, or other building works, is also transferred the right of property on the property on which the building is located, i.e. on land used for the regular use of the building. I don't mind, but I'd like you to tell me, have you thought about it, if we're going to the EU, to pass certain restitution laws, what if that land comes back to the original owner, and the building is built, so someone sold the building and the land? We're gonna have a big problem here. I think it had to be taken care of – what should we do in this situation? Second, on Article 4, I think this might work out. Why? According to Article 4(4), if a public notary, based on a particular record of immovable transport contracts, finds that the court has already approved the signatures of the same immovableity contract, i.e. a public notary of the same immovableity in the court, and the seller is the same person, it is required to warn the parties thereof and to make this warning to the public-recorded record, and if the contracting parties oppose the introduction of a warning, the public notary refuses to make up a public-book. I don't think this is good. I think it should've been sharpened. If someone sells real estate multiple times, it's a felony. He can't warn them, but he has to tell them right away – you can't verify something like this. Maybe he'd be obliged to file a criminal charges against a person like that. Most often, they're con men, who sell apartments more than once. I think it should have been sharper in this segment because the public notebook is obliged that when he makes a contract, because he has everything, knife and cake, to check if that apartment has already been sold before. If he finds that out, to say that this can't be verified, not to warn him, but that it can't be verified and there's no way to verify something like this. Also, regarding the special record, the same member, the last position, a regulation that is closer to regulating the keeping of a special record of the 7th member's position, brings the minister in charge of the judiciary. I agree, and I believe you'll bring it in soon. I've never liked such laws that leave that space to be somewhat later in office, because it creates a big space for various problems, for holes in the law. I think it was still supposed to be here to make sure that those records were already brought in, not to leave room. It's not the same if you bring it in six months, ten days, because this may be very important to someone. I can agree somewhat with the remark that where there are no notebooks, and of course I don't blame you for those who have unpreparedly entered this whole stage, and I'm talking about the people who brought the Law on Public Note to their noses in 2011, a big problem is created where they are left by transitional and final provisions to verify it, because you know the question, I think that's what a respected colleague on the Justice Committee noticed nicely, how will the judge sign himself as a notebook or as a judge? How, if it is explicitly prescribed that the public notebook is the one that can verify it? So how's the judge gonna sign it? I think we can have a big problem here. I understand that this must simply be brought. We, people, are late in many things, and this is something we are forced not to do this with our will to do all this, but because we are late in many things. Why didn't someone take care of it before? Well, I don't know. You have to ask them, but the general chaos in the judiciary was created right around the time of 2009, 2010 and here. It's almost impossible to make things right. It's really impossible. I admire how you're doing this, but we're gonna have to believe that a lot of trouble. As for the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions, I noticed one thing about Article 3 and Article 4 of the Honorable Minister, where, for example, Article 3 very well defines the principle of territoriality and that no signature and manuscript can be verified outside the public-book office except that Article 3 is defined when you can do extremely well, but in Article 4 the preceding article is firstly derivated, and so it is said – if the signature, manuscript or copy is without a reasonable reason certified outside the public-book office or outside the official seat of the public notebook, that is not the reason for the inability of the certificates, nor the certification takes away the property of the public document. Then why is it strictly prescribed in the preceding article? I think it would be even good to erase this attitude, if you ask me honestly. There's no reason if something strict is prescribed for you to derogate completely to the next member. I've seen more remarks, technically, simply, and I think that in order to improve the law itself, it wouldn't be bad for you to possibly consider this. It is related to Article 27. The law on the certification of a printed copy of an electronic document, which is said to be – the public notebook can confirm that the printed copy is consistent. You know -- that could mean but it doesn't have to. It has to be said -- the public notebook confirms or doesn't confirm it, but now it can confirm it. It's a little imprecise, and what if it doesn't? What if he refuses to confirm it? I've read the sequel, I know what you're saying, but I think you should think about it just for precision's sake. With regard to Article 14 of the same law where it is said – the confirmation of the blank signature is not allowed, which I agree with, but then defines under what conditions it can, i.e. to provide some indicative data. What's the indicative data? However, it should also be said to define what framework data may be able to enable such a thing to be verified. In any case, laws as laws are a fruit and a time chatmont and something that you now have to correct neither guilty nor due because someone was irresponsible in the earlier period. It's simple, me and my SNS colleagues will support this. That's the kind of thing we have to support. I think it's better to have this kind of definition of what and how to do it in the state than to have nothing. I think in some future period, this should all mature and be used better. The fact that we don't have enough notebooks today, you know, when someone passed the law in 2011 for a full year and a half, as long as he didn't have any single notebooks, and he didn't try to bring anything into line so that the law could be applied, yet today this country has 94 notebooks, which is very important. I advise them to be honest and honest people, because they say that one who is a notebook of three of his generation next can provide. In Croatia, you had a case where many public notebooks were arrested for their malfeasance. I hope that no one here is going to do this and that they will really serve the state and they will respect this state, and the public notebook is really a calling that everyone should do with great honor to accept. To be honest with you, any lawyer can envy anyone who becomes a public notary because it is the highlight of a judicial career.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7680	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Let the People's Parliament be prepared, Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7681	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, chairman, Mr Minister, when we talk about the bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts already at the very beginning of Article 1(1), the signature, manuscript and copy is certified by the public notary if the law is not otherwise specified. We do not understand why the authorities of local self-government are completely excluded from the work they have done so far. In the very explanation, in order to make it more clear to the citizens, I would like to repeat what the minister has in one part avoided to say that a public notary is responsible for the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, instead of a valid solution to which basic courts and authorities of the municipal administration are responsible. Thus, the law governing the matter of the overture is aligned with the Law on Public Registration, which introduces a new judicial profession in the RS, one of the most important issues of which is just the confirmation of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. In this way, it will contribute to the discharging of courts from cases that do not constitute a trial without resolving legal certainty since public notebooks are a highly professional legal profession. Certain amendments proposed by this law imply that they have arrived as a recommendation from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and that part is not controversial. That part of course we respect and support. I agree that it is necessary to relieve the courts of all cases that do not constitute a trial, but what does this have to do with the authorities of the municipal administration that have done these entrusted matters so far? Have they been buried in these jobs so far? There seems to be something else here. What is at stake is that an exclusive right of a public notary to act in these matters is provided, and this will of course correspond to public notebooks, given their tariffs which are at least in the region and how large. This, of course, will not suit the citizens, given that so far the certificates will be incomparably more expensive than they could pay in the bodies of local self-government. It's about another imposition in the sea of the government's gatherings that it's brought in over the last two years. When it comes to Article 1(2), the signature, manuscript and copy of a public notebook may be certified by a public intern. Repeat, P.R. intern. We don't see a valid reason for the introduction of a public intern into the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I'll explain. In Article 36. The Law on Notes does not provide for the possibility of a public trainee to carry out checks on his own and to place a public notary stamp on such certificates. Moreover, in the public register's office, the assistant public notary for whose appointment, as you know, Mr Selakovic, is a competent minister, or you, since you are a higher instance than the Chamber. Unlike a public notary intern chosen only by the Chamber, and not by you, unless the possibility of an independent verification of the signature, manuscript or copy of an assistant is given after a certain check by the relevant minister, which is an additional guarantee to legal certainty and for which the selection is prescribed much more stringent criteria, Article 39. The Law on Public Records provides that the selection of assistants must take particular account of the success of the law school, the success of the judicial exam and the public record exam. It seems strange that the trainee of the public register office, whose choice is not to be checked in advance of those professional qualifications, has the privilege. It is something that at the very least amazes us new representatives of citizens in parliament. What I would also like to say for the end is that this is another of the things that, like my predecessor from the ruling majority, has pointed out somewhere, introduces additional disorder, not order into the legal system. I think after today's debate and a session that's been going on for several hours it's quite clear that your coalition partners are not exactly in agreement with this bill, or even the ruling majority who announced that the law will change the amendments, which means it's not so good. What I want to end up with is that we need to take care of these times and those who are going to use this law. This time we will have to take more care of those who pay for it, they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7682	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7683	Thank you, Madam President. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 107, where the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and carrying out falseness is a harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, since the change of 2012 the Assembly speaker has often been used by the MPs of the former regime to spread panic, to spread fear most often by using untruths. And then we were bombed that we would be excluded from all international flows, that we would be in isolation only if we voted for the SNS and the SNS government, and then when those flows accelerated, they would continue to spread the truth. Now the previous speaker has said something that really has nothing to do with the truth, that these laws impose some new costs. You know what, I have to, unfortunately for you, but to the joy of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must deny you. These costs are lower, but if someone doesn't want to watch and someone doesn't want to see the truth, of course, using false speech, they're going to try to get some petty political points. What's true, for contracts worth up to 450,000 dinars so far, the tax and tariff have been 11.220 dinars. Respected citizens of Serbia, for the same contracts under these laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for which it received the consent of all MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the amount and compensation of the public notebook of 9,000 dinars or 2.220 dinars is now less. For the amounts and contracts up to 750,000 dinars, the difference is 720 dinars and will be cheaper 720 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7684	It's a two-minute breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7685	According to what these laws have predicted, not that there will be no greater coercion, but that the impose will be reduced for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7686	Thank you, MP, I think we've entered the line. The breach of the Rules of Procedure whether it applies to me or to the vice president who led it, because in this part when I took to chair MP Balsa Bozovic, he really did not say what he would do to hurt his dignity. On what grounds, because I can't replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure? This is very skillfully done, I must admit, I can't give you a replica right now. The word is made by Minister Nikola Selakovic, he may be able to challenge your replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7687	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I have made it very clear in my opening statement that the work of the copy and manuscripts has so far been entrusted to the authorities of local self-government and basic courts. So it's not polite to quote yourself, but I did say it, with an accent, and knowing that I can challenge the replica of a lawyer yet, that it's a confidential business. Signing, copying and manuscripting never, I underline – it was never the original jurisdiction of the local self-government units, but a trusted business. In every system where there's a public record of a Latin type, it's the jurisdiction of a public notebook. I can only agree with what my colleague Babic said, when it comes to costs and not seeing what, except for gaining political points, the stories of chaos and that something would be incomparable more expensive. I am sorry that one of the respected predecessors whose exposure and consideration was not present earlier when I discussed with another respected colleague precisely the authority of a public notary assistant, i.e. a public notary intern. A public record intern who has completed legal studies that can't verify, and that can be done by a judicial authority that has a high school, I don't see any logic. The Public Note Act provides that a public secretary may carry out his/her tasks as well as a public notary other than the assembly of a public record and solemnisation, i.e. the translation of a private document into public. I just feel bad that you weren't there to hear it, very correctly and well, my colleague Stefanovic and I discussed it, and I think that's just fine. Now you have a court authority who has completed high school and will continue to do so by March 1st, and here you have a publicist intern who has a college degree. Of course, you know what kind of overs, he can't put together a public record, he can't even make a public journal, he can only do a public notebook. I would say, although this should leave more for discussion in particular, counterpart Djukanovic has drawn attention to a few things that are very important to citizens. I have to take a brief look at that. One observation concerns, a very important remark, on the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity, and that is when the public notary finds in the record of immovable transport contracts that the court has already approved the signatures in that contract for the same immovableity in the public register or in the court, that a public record of immovableity is made up and that the seller is the same person. What's the difference? It is further said that he is obliged to warn the parties about this, to enter the information into the public record, and unless they accept that it is entered in the public record to refuse to make up a public record. I understand your concern and understand your concern for the security of the legal order, but one of the basic principles of public records is the duty of a public notary and that's what makes it different from a lawyer. The public notebook is required to meet the party and only under clear and reasoned reasons to refuse to fulfil its obligation. What difference does it make here from, say, today's court notifier who confirms the signatures on real estate contracts? First, it distinguishes him from having to be present in both sides of the contract that he has to get to know in detail all the details of the legal work he's making and who, for every defiance of that job, will be appropriate to his own profession and his own property. So he's obliged to tell the buyer – this seller you're sitting with here in front of me has already concluded a real estate contract in the form of a public record and I'm entering it into this public record. If he says - don't enter it, he says - I don't make up a public-book record. Now watch what needs to be gained from the conditions. First, that the public notebook does something against itself, that's the first thing, and he has to be the most careful one. Secondly, if that customer were not so clear of consciousness that he accepts such a conclusion. Is it theoretically possible that we have a situation where the same seller has concluded in the form of a public-book record already one contract and today comes to conclude another? Theoretically, it's possible. When? Let's say when the buyer didn't pay the purchase price, and there was no cancellation of that contract, but it's an important element of the contract. I'll find you a connection to what I said - a public notebook can't refuse. It's the same with the principle of territoriality. The party must not suffer because it is correct, let's say the parents want to send their child on a field trip, to the sea, they need certified consent from the competent authority. He went to the code, or he met a public notebook outside his seat, and this one confirmed his ID. That I.D. is legally valid. He paid the reward to the public notary for the service he provided him, but he cannot suffer the citizen because he did not behave as a public notary securely. That's why a public register will suffer, which is disciplinary if it does, but the citizen must not. A citizen can't do that. So, justifiable concern on your part, but I had to say this because I know that citizens are following this debate and that it's certainly in their interest to know. Are they protected by this bill in an adequate way? They did. Normally, I've even heard from the mouths of certain opposition MPs that this law is good. I heard the law was good, I didn't hear the argument why it wasn't good. Also, you know what, the minister can't take away the right of anyone in the National Assembly, thank God, to try to intervene with the amendments in the text of the law. It's the work of a MP. That's what he needs to do. How many times have opposition parliamentary groups given some good amendments, I have gladly adopted them. There he is, and Dr. Milosavljevic is here, and we're here together, and in the media, we performed afterwards, and I'm happy about that. So the duty of the National Assembly, duty, right, is to improve the bill that comes into it. I don't have any problem with that. There were some laws we had proposed, on which we had no amendments. Perhaps it is a testimony that these legal texts were excellent. We have an example of the May Act of Outpard Procedure and there has been no single amendment to it. I'm sorry I made it too long, but I think it's important what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7688	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds now? Okay, nothing. Master Alexandera Jerkov, on what grounds? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7689	I think he's a injured member of 103. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges the MPs that when he advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he wants to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, explains why he believes that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has occurred. Mr Babic, not only did he not do it, but he was commended by you for skillfully performing what he did, you know, is not Mr Babic's skill, but you allowed him to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to obviously use the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate the MPs of the DS. If your idea is that this debate is going on today so that MPs of the opposition never get the right to reply, and already several times since the beginning of today's work we have been in a situation like this or similar, then say so, but don't take the Parliament in such a way that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply only to the MPs of the opposition, and that MPs of the ruling coalition are able to speak anything that comes to mind and use every opportunity to bring charges to the expense of those who are in opposition today, even if they did so under the influence of the Rules of Procedure. If you allow each of us to abuse the Rules of Procedure in such a way, please, we will all be as skilled as Mr Babic, but I don't think it will lead us far away and give this debate a tone that simply doesn't have to have. I think you heard very well that Mr Babic, instead of advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, replicated what MP Balša Bozovic said, that you very consciously allowed him to do so and instead of getting a warning about such behaviour, he was found to have done something skillfully.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7690	I thank you too, it's been two minutes and you've said very well what you wanted, but I don't share any praise. I think you mixed me up with Igor Becic, physically, because I got in at the end, and I gave you a violation of the Rules of Procedure after the Minister was exposed for 15 minutes, I kept quiet, he was exhibiting, so that you could always. Since I see the MPs intend to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure here according to the reported, I'm setting a break of an hour that follows us for lunch, to consider that we should all continue the discussion on the list, and I'm not going to tell you who reported everything, because one and the other side has pressed to talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedures that were not there. Thank you. [[after breaks]] The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go. There's a minister coming in in a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7692	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, at least those who are in the O.R., a set of laws we are discussing today, which together with the adopted Public Note Act represent one continent of importance for the good functioning of the public notary service and for the quality and efficient work of public notebooks. It is necessary to pass a new Law on Transport of immovableity, primarily because of the changed system and the necessity to implement and harmonise the Law on Transport of Immobility with the Constitution with the Law on Public Property and with the Law on Public Registration. All today's legal proposals and the introduction of a system of public notebooks for the purpose, above all, have an increase in the level of legal certainty of citizens and the decommissioning and more efficient work of courts. The biggest newspaper in this bill refers to the legal procedure in immovableity. Therefore, the law provides that contracts consist exclusively in the form of a public notary record, whereby the practice so far that the parties themselves were able to make up a non-alignment contract, regardless of whether it is a purchase contract or a gift contract or any other contract which transfers property rights from one person to the other, regardless of whether or not it is a non-refundable fee, such possibility is now excluded and the obligation is imposed on the public notary only to make up and verify real estate contracts. On the other hand, public notebooks must ensure the protection of the rights of parties, provide them with greater certainty on the legal validity of the contract and to protect the interests of all parties equally, which means that the proposal for this law also provides for public notaries to have contracts drawn up legally accurate and full-fledged and that no Contracting Party is damaged in this legal business. Transitional provisions of the Transport of immovableity Act provide that in cities where there is no, or where public notebooks are not appointed, contracts shall be drawn up and certified by the competent Court of Justice. I am afraid that in this way we will not achieve the effect we wanted and concerning the discharge of the courts, but on the contrary, it is possible in fact that there is one suppression in the work of the courts, primarily because of the insufficient number of judges to deal with this work, because it is possible to put together and before that to verify all the facts that are necessary and concerning the subject-matter of the contract, and that this contract would be legally valid indeed requires a lot of time and work. Then neither the number of items, or contracts to be drawn up daily and certified, is negligible. Also, I'm afraid there may be some kind of confusion on the party side, because the procedure that precedes the verification itself is not exactly stated. How do the parties address the court when they want to conclude the contract and the competent judge to draw up a contract for them? Is that a request? Is it possible in the same day when a request or application for a contract overture is submitted to the competent court, is it possible to verify the contract on that same day, because it is the biggest problem it can create for parties not living in Serbia or not living in a place where a real estate contract is drawn up? These are questions they want answers to both parties and all participants in the traffic, as well as judges. The law on public notebooks provides that 375 notebooks are required for Serbia's territory. It's only named 94. A large number of cities and municipalities that do not have notebooks are examples of Smederevo and the entire Danube district where no notebook has been appointed. I am afraid that there will be too much burden on the judges and judges throughout the county and that at one point the question of the efficiency of the work of these judges will be raised, and I fear that we can also come into a situation of imbalance in the amount of work given to individual judges and related to the drawing up of an immovable transport contract. Next in a series of laws is the draft law supplementing the Law on judicial fees. The proposal for this law, due to the new circumstances relating to the Law on Public Registration, is complemented by the prescribed fees that the parties will pay, already beginning from 1 September to form contracts which have the form of a public record by the Court of Justice in municipalities and cities where no public records are appointed. Article 1 is complemented by a tax tariff which provides for a reduction in the court fee when it comes to contracts for a gift between parents and children, and it is a good thing that the tax is quite reduced compared to the present. Also, the same member is predicted to pay a fee of 50% of the fee provided for in that tariff number for pre-contracting. Given that every pre-contract does not necessarily mean that it will result in a secure conclusion of the contract, and when it comes in particular to buy-sale contracts, you must know by now that it was a practice for the tax to count on the height of the corporal. In the event that a large purchase price is, and does not come to account for the tax as provided for in the tariff number and does not come to the conclusion of the contract, it would be a little more burden for the parties than has been the case so far. I'm saying this because I'm sure the goal is for all of us to put less burden on the citizens and find the best and most efficient solution for them when it comes to legal business in real estate. The law on copying, signatures and manuscripts, which was passed more than 20 years ago, also needs to be brought into line with the Constitution and the Law on Public Registration. It is foreseen that this law also enters into force on 1 September, with this law provided that only after six months of the entry into force of this law, the transactions to which the law applies are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the public notary, which means that in those municipalities in which citizens' notebooks are appointed, they can also use public notebook services within the first six months and that their documents, signatures, transcripts, certifications, as so far, in competent local self-governments and basic courts. All these laws that we are talking about today form the basis for a good application of the Law on Public Registration. It is our obligation to contribute to good laws by improving the quality of justice, efficiency and efficiency of the judiciary, on the one hand, and yet all in the interests of citizens and meeting the requirements of citizens for respect for the rule of law, for an impartial and effective judicial system. As the SPS authorised representative Nedo Jovanovic said today, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the drafts of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7693	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7694	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the Honored Guests, today we are discussing the content of two new draft laws here, the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcriptions and the movement of immovableity, and one draft law on additions to the Law on Judicial Taxes, and we, MPs of the New Party, will not be able to vote on these draft laws unless the Minister and the Government of Serbia accept our proposals for amendments to the contents of these laws that have arrived in the Assembly. Mr. Selakovic, I especially ask that he listens more carefully now, because I will try to be specific and very precise about what our remarks are on not so bad bill proposals. Since Mr Selakovic made one small mistake, because he misunderstood in one part what Mr. Zivkovic was saying, I hope this error will not happen again now. That's why I'll be very precise and specific. When we talk about the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity, the Serbian government has proposed that this bill be adopted by emergency procedure, and we New Party MPs here believe it is premature to adopt this bill now and enter into force on 1 September. So it's also obvious from this point of view that we have very different positions than this bill. I'll try to offer three, I mean a good argument, Mr. Selakovic, based on which I claim this is premature. It is our assessment that this bill, if adopted and implemented in two days, on Monday, will slow down and further complicate the traffic of immovable property. I think the bill promoter should have made one analysis of these possible effects. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. Selakovic, did you do that kind of analysis? Our assessment is that this will be one of the effects, very bad. Secondly, the application of this law is in direct connection with the application of the Public Note Act. Mr. Minister, it's you here, not once, but several times, you said. You said it was about embezzling the Public Records Act. As you can see, I'm very specific about what to say and when. And I think that's where we have one big problem right now, right about the application of the Public Records Act, and that's what our theme is here today. What's the problem? The problem is that there is a suspicion that in one part of the application of this law on public records there has been a violation of the law during the organisation of a public-book exam, for example, in terms of the composition of an examination and competition commission, as regards the non-application of legal criteria for the selection of candidates, or, for example, in terms of not having enough notebooks, and we have a chamber of notebooks that are now beginning to get some jurisdiction and we do not have as many notebooks as necessary to carry out those competencies. Mr Selakovic, when we talk about breaking the law, about the bill coming from the Ministry of Justice, or from the Government, which you are defending here today, and about the application of a law that you are also in charge of, I think it is a big problem. The third thing, about the proposal for a law on the transport of immovableity, before the adoption of this law, and therefore we believe that this is premature, should bring the content and meaning of certain terms into line in some other laws. For example, in the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Legalisation of Objects, etc. Mr. Selakovic, I think we have a good proposal for you and I hope you'll consider it. Our proposal is to apply this law, and this is one of the amendments that we have tabled, postponed for 1 July 2015. It's a time when the effects of applying this law can be good. Another thing about the bill on court fees. I believe, gentlemen, that it is too high a fee to make up legal transactions that have the form of public-book records. I agree that what was the price of that kind of tax or something equivalent to that cab right now, something a little more expensive, but the price for a tax, for a real estate of up to 600,000 dinars and we say that the tax is 9,000 dinars that are paid, I think it's a lot. This is Mr. Babic, for example, from the SNS, constantly taking advantage of opportunities to say that it is time for savings, household behavior. When a man listens to him, and here I am, he can think, "It's some modesty, it's gonna be cheaper, and now we've got nine thousand." Our proposal is to make up to 600,000 dinars for fixed value fees and then in a row. Those are some of my remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7695	You've spent five minutes. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger VesnaSimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7696	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, since we have already discussed quite a lot today about the set of laws that we need to adopt, I would not like to repeat myself with my colleagues, so I will look back on my presentation only to certain provisions of the Law on Transport of Immobility, which I, as a lawyer and persons, have found interesting and burning ears. The proposal for a law on the transport of immovableity in the part in which it clarifies the reasons for the adoption of this law shall state as one of the key reasons and the alignment of this law with the Law on Public Registration, which shall normally enter into force on 1 September 2014. The adoption of the Law on Public Records was indeed a great need and necessity, since one moment there was a legal chaos in the immovableity market. The immovableity agreement consisted of lawyers, but in many cases it was made up by the parties themselves. This led to the fact that contracts were under-legalized on the one hand. On the other hand, there was no record of certified contracts. Many contracts were only certified before the court, without complete transfer, or the contractors did not know or considered it unnecessary to carry out a complete transfer of immovable property at the same time through the Office of Income and the Office of the Immobility Catastrophe. The courts did not keep a special record, although they had opportunities, of the completed and certified contracts before them, all resulting in the fact that certain immovableities, and in particular apartments, both existing and those in the construction, sale and multiple times, the owners, i.e. honest customers, were largely left alone and unable to recover invested money in the sale despite the conduct of long-term and exhausting court proceedings. The Public Note Act concludes the Immobility Transport Treaty in the form of a public-book record. A public notebook is solely responsible for its assembly. Otherwise, it does not produce legal facts. The public notary which has drawn up the public-recording record of the immovable transport contract shall be obliged to immediately forward to the court responsible for keeping specific records of the immovable transport contracts, as well as to the authority responsible for determining and charging public revenues within ten days of making up. What is most important to me in my review of the newspaper that introduces this law is the fact that the basic court keeps a special record of public-recording contracts on the traffic of immovableity located in its territory, and public notebooks in the area of that court have the right to gain insight into the special record of public-books. In this way, conditions are created for the introduction of order in the transport of immovable property and at the same time protects safe citizens from possible abuses when buying, all leading to further legal certainty in one sphere of social life. So in the voting day, I will support a set of laws that we discussed today, and I am convinced that all other SNS colleagues will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7697	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7698	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, given that today as an authorised representative in the opening presentation, I have presented everything that represents the position of the parliamentary group of SPS, I will now touch on something that implies a reaction to certain reflections and discussions that have been presented in the current course of the debate, particularly under the proposal for a traffic law on immovableity. It seems to me that even in some discussions, the distances from the essence of the law have occurred, and a allegedly poor procedure for the appointment of public notes has been discussed. First of all, it should be pointed out that the public-book exam is in its nature very complex and demanding, which implies high criteria for assessing the results of each candidate's work for a public notary. This again means that the public notary must have at least the professional reference of the judge of the basic court, I say at least, given that it has been passed on by a large part of the matter that was in judicial jurisdiction, which is out-of-parity matter. So that I don't walk away from the debate, I'll, as reported in further exposure, try to get through the demands, primarily the branch I'm from, which is a lawyer, affirming one of the questions I've raised today. It is not only about law enforcement and the protection of the legal profession, but also about other legal aid providers, starting with the immobilisers, because we recently adopted the Law on Transport of Immobility, which we are now in fact implementing through the adoption of this law, and soon we are passing or we are going to pass a law on free legal aid. On the one hand, there are fully legitimate legal requests and other legal aid providers that those types of legal aid that have so far been in the jurisdiction of the lawyership remain, regardless of the application and adoption of this law, something which implies the original jurisdiction of the lawyerry, which is that, through the provision of legal assistance to the citizens, who address lawyers, they provide what they require, and one of these requirements may be the assembly of an immovable transport contract. There's absolutely nothing illogical, illegal about it, and there's nothing controversial about it. What I have pointed out today is that it is stated in the law, which excludes this right and independence of the attorney and other legal aid providers, which is the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks to draw up an immovable transport contract. Lawyership, as an independent profession, and from the point of view of the Constitution, and from the point of view of the Law on Lawyerry cannot accept such a solution as a system solution. I don't want to be just a lawyer, because I'm a lawyer, I want to be a lawyer, I want to be a lawyer for free legal aid, and I've been able to legitimize them today. These are mediators, public notebooks, legal aid services, all those addressed by citizens with that request. When we talk about the provisions of the Immobility Mediation Act, we must start from the fact that a norm has been systematised in this law that the intermediary also has justice on behalf of the authorising officer to take action in the conclusion of a contract, i.e. legal work which can be manifested through immovable traffic. It should not be denied or restricted. That is why I continue to appeal, Mr. Minister, that a norm, such as the norm of parallel legal solutions, is being systematized in our law, or in this law that we are discussing, which is the Law on Transport of immovableness. What has emerged today as a single question is a question asked by counterpart Djukanovic, expressing a certain amount of caution to the conduct of public notes at the time, not only to verify identity, but also to the possibility of abuses that occur if contracts are drawn up twice. There is a possibility that a public-recorded record with the identity of the parties, with an identity that is completely identical, will be repeated. The answer to this question is the law itself, because the public notary is obliged, or in accordance with the provisions of the law, to carry out, in addition to all other checks, an examination of the content of the contract, i.e. the legal work on which it is intended to make up a public-book record, and on the basis that it determines whether the contract, by its content, corresponds to what the law has prescribed, or to prevent any abuses or even the possibility of corrupt action. What has been asked today as a question from fellow Djukanovic, I am the matter of affirmation at meetings of both held committees, at the session of the Committee on Justice and at the session of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, meant, Mr Minister, your reply that the judge may sign a public-book record. Unfortunately, there we will not be able to agree and there we will remain in different positions, i.e. we will have different thoughts and different interpretations. At the point of view of those who expertly observe and analyse this law and these parts of the law, it is no doubt that such a position will not be supported, although I accept that there are different interpretations and different opinions, that the judge can be legitimateized as a judge in the signing of a public-book record, for two simple reasons. The first reason is that the Law on Public Records has very clearly defined how the public-recorded record is made up and that only the public notary can sign that public-recorded record by verification to put it in legal traffic and that it has the appropriate legal force. In a particular case, if the judge did, I pointed it out today, so I'll repeat, it comes in two problems. The first problem is conflicting with other functions, given the incompatibility of the judge's function with any other function, and the second is the exclusive authority of the public notebook. This cannot be transferred to law and cannot be transferred to court, and in particular it cannot be transferred to court. For this reason, I believe that the amendment, which has been passed over to me, as signatories of the amendment, contains a solution that can overcome one such situation and thus avoid some further consequences. Finally, given that the time of the parliamentary group stands out, I would like to point out that all legal aid providers in this situation are appealing to the Ministry of Justice for the provision of Article 4. The Immobility Transport Act, through the Amandans, audits, or amends and adapts to the requirements, legitimate rights of all legal aid providers, and that is what I mean by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7699	The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7700	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as we received material for this session a few days before the session was held, there was plenty of time to carefully read the proposed laws, and I compared them with the texts of the applicable laws that regulate matter and I found that the texts were more or less identical, some of the formulations were literally prescribed, some of the provisions of language and formal legal amendments, but the essence is exactly the same, with the only change that was of value, and which my previous colleagues were talking about, is the change of actual jurisdiction regarding the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and in connection with the creation and the overture of the immobility contract, so I am not going to repeat it now. Therefore, it is easy to conclude that the government's intention to meet practically proposed laws is also legal assumptions for the legitimate work of public notebooks that should start working on Monday, therefore, in three days. For me, in creating legal assumptions, nothing is disputed. It is disputed that we waited practically three days before the start of public notebooks to pass laws without which public notebooks would not be able to perform the work for which they were founded. I think that now, in fact, the main burden of the government's impunity has been transferred to the MPs, which is not the first time, and I don't think that's correct, but aside from the question of whether something is correct or not, it's a question of whether something is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or not. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that every law enters into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication, except in situations where there are justified reasons for it to be within a short period of time. We've turned one exception into a rule, which I don't think is good, and I'm sure it doesn't contribute to building and strengthening the rule of law that I believe we all stand for together. I think the Public Registration Act was passed in 2010, so four years ago. The deadline for the start of work of public notebooks has been extended on several occasions, so this was originally prescribed for 1 September 2012, then for 1 March 2013, so now for 1 September 2014. Today is Friday, tomorrow is Saturday, so Sunday and Monday the public notebooks start working, and I ask what work I'm doing? We are still discussing today the laws that those of Monday should start applying. Those laws will likely be passed on Sunday, will take effect on the same day and will begin to apply on Monday. It's not just a matter of whether public notebooks are going to be strong or not. Public notaries are lawyers, and I believe that they will not be a problem if, based on their expertise and experience, they somehow overcome this time problem introduced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with their impunity. What is a key problem for me is that citizens, most citizens don't even know there are public notebooks, and even less knows what public notebooks are for. Instead of timely informing the public about the existence of public notebooks, what is their jurisdiction, instead of passing in time the regulations that public notebooks will apply, we now have a situation to apply the regulations that we are discussing today. If you do not believe that this will cause interference in courts and in citizens, I invite you on Monday to visit any reception office of any court in Serbia without notice and without cameras, and to see on the counters the chaos, misrepresentation and confusion of such a timing of law-making. If someone wants to verify their diplomas on Monday, do you think that someone knows where to go, to court, to the municipality or to the public register, and if they know which public notary to go to, where that public notebook is. Or, let's not mention diplomas, so you don't get it wrong. They want to lock down the seller and buyer of the real estate contract. Same situation. People have not been timely informed of what awaits them since September 1st of this year. I really expect you to make sure that Serbia's public is informed in time of the changes that follow, not in a minute to twelve, not to be brought today and applied from tomorrow, because, in practice, not only do we show disrespect for the citizens of Serbia, they are not guilty of impunity, but we also show disrespect for what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes, and that is respect for the eight-day deadline for the entry into force of the law, eight days before the publication. If the Constitution doesn't suit us, it can change, but as long as it applies, it binds all of us. I'm sure you'll put all the effort and authority you have to make sure these situations don't repeat themselves anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7701	The word is Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7702	Madam President, I am not your administrator, but I have some rough record that you are 25 or 26 times in this Assembly for 24 months as long as you are minister in that old council and now and whenever you come and represent some of the proposed laws, which are, of course, the entire government, all ministers headed by the Prime Minister, you were attacked if you want to do something faster to solve a situation that is acute why you do it so quickly. If we delay something that can't be applied, which we had to conclude in 2013 that we couldn't start with the activities of public notebooks, so we had to postpone the Law on public notebooks for the first September, then it was said why it was delayed for a year, so it could have been six months. Some suggested that it be for the next two years. Most of the dissatisfied, but on the other hand, you know that behind you stands the vast majority of MPs who are responsible and who realize that we may be 20 years behind Slovenia, seven, eight years behind BiH, and all the other republics of the former SFRY have adopted a notary system or public notary system and we are someone who has last introduced notaries in Europe since they were abolished in the former communist Yugoslavia. That's why I can give you full support as a professional and as a minister because you've taken a very generous stand and fought to bring out 94 public notebooks to make the exam for public notebooks transparent to create a commission that is independent of which they will lay down, and their knowledge, their interest is beyond your power. None of us MPs, nor any of the ministers, nor the entire government, can influence who is going to do what in this country and who will apply and pass that notary exam after having passed a judicial exam and a certain number of years with experience in a particular job. We know that we passed that law, but today we talked more about it than these following laws that simply, whether we wanted it or not, we have to make it, like it or not. Of course they're fitting a condition that will be valid from September 1st and there's nothing here that's epochal, something that doesn't even know the layman's public and has not been notified of. Of course, the notaries that will apply these laws that I am sure will be adopted on Sunday, and this is the proposal for a law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions, the Proposal for a Transport of Immobility and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, will apply notaries, so the people who passed those exams, who know this and who are obliged to explain to the citizens who address certain legal acts in their jurisdiction and do what is necessary. Of course, when something new is introduced into the system that there are problems. I am aware that there will be discrepancies and that it will be in the first few days, let it be in the first month that people will wander and it will not be clear to them whether there is a notary in Vranj, and there is not, or that all the certificates will continue to be at the Vranj basic court, or that it will continue to be in Bujanovac, Surdulica, Vladic's Han, but also these congregation transfers serve to educate citizens that they follow what we do here, and not knowing the law does not excuse anyone, everyone is obliged to know, to follow the legal regulations of the state in which they live, that everyone who is 18 must know and whoever has a smaller number of years of years of age must follow what it is about him or that his legal representations do so. What's very important and what I wanted to talk about most is the Law on Transport of immovableity. As of September 1st, it will be public notebooks that will verify these purchase contracts, real estate contracts in a broader sense. They will not do it in such a way that they will put it together with some type of typewriter, even though we have it today, they will not do it as uninterested lawyers who are only interested in the collection of contracts, but will have to be absolutely interested in each letter, for every paragraph, for everything that is written in that contract, because they are responsible and professionally to their chamber, and they are also responsible for any mistake they make in the event of selling the apartment seven or 17 times, as has happened so far. So this is about a situation where we will have complete legal certainty, where you will be with a man, a notary who is responsible for his honor, his profession, his office, and in the end for all the damage you suffer if you have made a contract with him, he is obliged to make up for it. I was lucky and pleased to represent a client in Bulgaria, where we concluded a contract with the notaries. Believe it looked a lot better than it looks here. You don't have a number there at half eight you wait, so you get a number at fifteen to eight, so you wait the day you get to the line. It's usually done on counters or in some unconditional rooms, which is what I mean by how it's been happening with us so far. Since Monday, that is, from September 1st and beyond, these contract verifications will be in chambers that are comfortable, which are conditional, where there will be no entry of other parties, distractions, ringing phones. The note is required to read you everything from the first letter to the last letter, to point you to all irregularities. You sign it and what's most important is everything you pay to do through the bank. When you pay everything through the bank and when you're paying it all, you have to pay the VAT. Therefore, you are absolutely right that this will be done and that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be filled. I guarantee that when you do a comparative analysis by September 1st and from September 1st, you will see how much this VAT, i.e. payment and cabs and everything else will grow. On the other hand, I know the notaries who decided to do this are fully prepared. They have their own notary chamber. Of course, the law says there should be a minimum of 100 notes in Serbia to build a chamber, but this 94 experts think they can build a single chamber that is respectable. We expect the number of notes to increase in the coming period and that they already have their seals. They built their own rooms, which is also a condition under the Law on Notaries, or public notebooks. I expect they applied to the IRS for tax records and everything else. So there's no argument in the way of adopting this set of laws. There are certain remarks from my colleague Jovanovic, whose opinion I appreciate, and I think that through the amendments and in the day for amendments we will talk a little bit more about it, maybe give you a suggestion that you also have time to think about it, whether something can change, and I think it can, because it will contribute to the improvement of this law. The way it's conceived and how you wrote it and the government suggested to us for the SNS parliamentary group is acceptable and we will give our vote in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7703	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7704	Dear President, Mr. Minister, we have a set of laws in the section of your ministry's work, and I'm going to say just a few sentences on the Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Let me immediately say that this is another in a series of positive successes both the minister and the ministry of justice in general. This is a law that is very important. We heard here today from the opposition gentlemen that he's not that important. Let me just say that it is still the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so in 1930 it was the first attempt to introduce a public notary or those notaries of the Republic of Serbia. Here, ladies and gentlemen, 84 years have passed since then, and you alone, Mr. Minister of All Justice, have managed to bring into Serbia's justice system the public notebook institution, a very important, very important tradition in Serbia since the Middle Ages. In this high house last year, Mr. Minister, you said that public notebooks will begin with the work of 1.9.2014, in front of all of us here, the MPs and also in front of the citizens of Serbia. I knew then, as it is now, that it will happen, because you're working on the system agreed- done, as the entire SNS does. Since according to the Law on Public Registration, the first 94 public notebooks are due to begin with the work of 1.9.2014, so on Monday, it was inevitable that this law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts was adopted immediately. To date, the current Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts has been passed far in 1993, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Of course it was supposed to be in line with the Constitution. Those who criticise today, former regime gentlemen, did not do so. The Public Note Act provided that a public notary was authorised to carry out works of assembly, certification, release of public documents on legal matters, so it is necessary to pass this new law that regulates the overture of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I would like to point out, most importantly, that the largest and most significant newspaper of this proposed law refers to the jurisdiction to carry out an overture of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Now this proposed law, which your ministry has proposed, is being taken over by a public notary, rather than by the competent courts and authorities of the municipal administrations. So by this act, we are harmonising the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts with the Law on Public Records, which was also one of the obligations. The law on public records of the Republic of Serbia introduced a new judicial profession, extremely important as I said, one of the most important tasks of signature, manuscript and transcription. Dear Serbian citizens, you will no longer go for a copy of the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts to the court or the authorities of the municipal administration, but for a public notary. The law also left the possibility, as an exception, that the copying of public documents can also be certified by its publisher, which has been a liquid since the Middle Ages. Of course, another warning to the citizens of Serbia. For the next six months, which means by the end of March 2015, it is envisaged that, in addition to public notaries of certification, the basic courts and authorities of the municipal administration continue to perform in order to avoid any problems that might arise as a result of the introduction of this function and there is no concern that chaos will arise, as the previous speaker said. This law helps us to speed up the establishment and functioning of a very important judicial body, so a public notary, which will contribute to the first orderly discharge of courts from cases that do not constitute a trial, and thus does not violate legal certainty, since public notebooks are a high-level legal profession, as some today emphasized more than lawyers and some judges in lower courts. By adopting this law, it also has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who on page 24 of the exposés during the April 2014 government election in particular, quotes - the end of judicial reform as one of the essential pillars for normal functioning of both the economy, the state administration, and the creation of a safe investment environment, completed the quote. Finally, by adopting this law and by performing the work of public notaries, ladies and gentlemen, more important moments for citizens of the Republic of Serbia are being achieved. I'll only mention four. First, the courts of cases that do not represent a trial are dismissed, which in some ways ensures more efficient and better work of the courts. Secondly, citizens of the Republic of Serbia will pay far less taxes for these certificates, signatures, transcripts and manuscripts, and not more than the opposition gentlemen have said, I do not think they have read the material. Third, the citizens will get to the top of their documents faster. Fourthly, a larger flow of real estate is achieved, not a smaller one, as they said. That's why ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I invite you, especially the fellow gentlemen and colleagues of the opposition, to give your vote in the voting day for these laws. This will make a small contribution to the modernisation of Serbia for which our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, and Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so warmly advocated, and Serbian citizens are unselfishly supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7705	Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7706	Dear Parliament Speakers, distinguished ministers, with fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected Serbian citizens. We have before us a set of judicial laws that certainly arise, above all from the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which is planned for the period 2013/2018. years, but also stem from the Action Plan, the National Strategy for Justice Reform, where it is particularly important to further improve and work on public notebooks. These laws are fundamental. They're prepared thoroughly. Experiences from European countries and European legislation have been used, which the minister himself has made in his opening presentation, in particular the European legislation of Germany, Austria, and also which public notaries have developed for centuries, and also the experience of both positive and negative countries from our environment, or countries from the former SFRY, because they have all had notes, i.e. public notaries and notaries for almost a decade. I must point out that this government, as responsible, has recognised, and the competent ministry has recognised all the importance of introducing public notebooks into the judicial system. I must point out that in the late 1930s in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, public notebooks existed and functioned. So it was going to take 84 years for the government to recognize the MPs responsible and to refer this bill to the beginning of the work of public notebooks. That this is neither premature nor hasty, also says that on 1 August 2014, the solution was given 94 public notebooks covering the jurisdiction of 37 basic courts. Of course, assumptions have been made to begin the work of the chamber of public notebooks, and of course it is planned to continue to fill the number of public notebooks. Of course, the National Strategy for Justice Reform is planned for public notebooks, but step by step, to take a complete out-of-party procedure. It should be somewhere in the foreseeable future in the work of public notebooks. What today's laws, which are ahead of us, are the goals that actually want to achieve the proposed laws that are primarily an increase in the legal certainty of citizens. Enhancing the legal certainty of citizens is a priority, one of the most important priorities of each responsible government, and this government and the competent ministry are responsible and are the legal security of citizens in the first place. Apart from increasing the legal certainty of citizens of the proposed laws and thus contributing to reducing the administration of courts, and thus increasing the availability of justice of citizens and, of course, respect for one of the basic principles of citizens, which is the trial within a reasonable period of time. Except for these two objectives, one of the objectives that the proposed law aims to achieve is certainly raising the legal culture of citizens. What I'd like to put an accent on is first of all the first bill of law relating to the approval of signatures, transcripts and manuscripts. He's thorough, clear, accurate. He tells the first member who is responsible for certifying signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and says that they are responsible for both public notebooks and public interns, but also gives jurisdiction to the issuers of the document so that they can verify the copy of the one they have issued. There goes the principle of who can do more, can be less, and besides that principle, it certainly reduces the costs for citizens who can also receive a copy from the authority that issued the document. It also states that any public notary can verify the transcription, manuscript and signature, regardless of the place of residence of the applicant and the legal documents. Also, with this bill, what distinguishes it from this other law, which is the Law on Transport of immovableity, is that in this law only a clause relating to the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts has the power of public documents, while in the Immobilities Act, the public record fully has the power of public documents. What the first law also provides is to identify the identity of the person who is the applicant of the document, in which way the identity is determined, then if it is not possible to identify the identity, which is the procedure and how the signature, manuscript and identity cannot be verified, and these are the legal witnesses of the identity. Then, the law also stipulates how to verify the signature of a person who is unable to place a fingerprint, and the law stipulates that witnesses should be called upon and the law also makes it clear who cannot be called a witness. The law also clearly provides for those citizens who cannot speak or cannot hear, and the law is clear that in these cases it is necessary to enable those persons to give an interpreter and interpreters to faithfully convey to the applicant, to read everything to him in the certification clause, of course also the interpreter who was present with the public notary. Also, with regard to copying documents, it is predicted exactly what should be contained in the prescription certification clauses, and it is also envisaged that basic courts continue to verify until 1 March 2015 where public notebooks have been selected, and in those areas where public notebooks have not been selected, that jurisdiction is still taken over by the primary courts but also by the authorities of the local self-government whose affairs have been entrusted. As far as the second law is concerned, it's the Law on Transport of immovableity. The specific value of this law is Article 4 which accurately and clearly determines the public record, its form, but also how it also determines the liability of a public notary, or its obligation to which it is required to provide a public record, as well as the responsibility of the courts to keep records of all public records. As regards Article 4, as regards the responsibilities of public notebooks when making up public records, criminal provisions are also provided for for public notaries relating to the fact that if the public notary does not immediately provide the court with a public record and does not provide a public record to the authority in charge of the collection, the tax office for the collection of public income shall follow the criminal provisions. It is also intended to provide a public record when the issue of public property is delivered to the Advocate General so that legal action can be taken within the legal time limit in order to protect public property if any injury occurs. Also, this law provides for the right to prevent purchases, both agricultural land owners of agricultural land and co-owners and, of course, legal possibility is given that, through a claim, rightholders of the right to prevent purchases exercise their right if they are wronged. Of course, the SNS in the voting day will support all legislative solutions, because they are certainly moving towards European legislation and into the step of modern European laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7707	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7708	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Madam President, as my distinguished fellow Members of the SNS Group have said, will support all three draft laws that are on the agenda today because we think these are bill proposals that contain good solutions. These are bill proposals that will allow the security of legal traffic in RS. In order not to repeat myself with my other colleagues, I will make only a few remarks, a few observations regarding the draft law on copying, manuscripts and signatures, and on a proposal for a traffic law on immovableity. I'm going to use this time to try to break up with some of my colleagues in power, but also with some opposition colleagues, and just to separate our doubts about the quality of these draft laws. As my esteemed predecessor, Mrs. Vukojičić, the Institute of Public Note, said, was not exactly a complete newspaper in our legal system, because we had public notebooks during the period of existence of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. They disappeared from the legal system in 1945 and several years ago the institute was restored. It is a good institute, an institute that exists in all well-organised European countries and has no reason not to exist in the Republic of Serbia. Where's the problem? The problem arises because there are obviously not enough public notebooks in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. there are not as many public notebooks as the needs of legal traffic require. Is the State responsible, or is the Government responsible for this, any government? We don't think it's because it's a good will for anyone who meets the conditions for a public notary to decide whether he wants to be a public notary or not. In that sense, no government can bear responsibility because you currently have 94 public notebooks in Serbia, and you do not have around 370 of them as optimal as it is, or how much it would really be necessary. In such a situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia resorted to the only possible solution, which is that in municipalities and cities where there are no public notebooks, on the one hand, a copy of the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are performed by basic courts, i.e. by the municipal administration as a trusted business, i.e. in municipalities and cities where there are no public records to draw up an immovableity contract. We also held a plenary session today but also this morning at a session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government had a kind of high-quality legal debate on whether individual solutions in these two draft laws were good or not. With some views of some of my colleagues, some of whom belong to the ruling coalition, I couldn't agree on the Justice Committee, and I don't agree now. I want to support both Mr Selakovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in defending what is written in the proposal for a bill on the certification of transcriptions, manuscripts and signatures, as well as those of the solutions contained in the Immobility Transport Law. What's this about? First of all, the thesis of some of our colleagues is that judges are not qualified enough to draw up a real estate contract that I absolutely disagree with, because if someone can solve a litigation procedure or act in criminal matters, I don't see why they wouldn't be competent to put together a real estate contract. The judge is a man who graduated from law school, who must have had a certain number of years of work experience and, of course, passed a judicial exam. With all due respect to the profession of the public notebook, I don't think it's harder to be a public notary than to be a judge. In this regard, it is not the exact thesis of colleagues who claim that drawing up an immovable transport contract is a job that can only be done and exclusively public notebooks. What exactly is this about? This is about the fact that the bill states that the immovableity contract is drawn up in form, i.e. in the form of a public record. So the bill promoter had a form in mind. The form is actually a written form. When you look at the Bond Relations Act, you'll see that there are contracts that don't have to be in writing, that there are oral contracts. For the sake of legal traffic security and this law, as well as the existing Immobility Transport Act of 1998, it is prescribed that immovable transport contracts must be drawn up in written form and that is also a practice that exists in all well-organised European countries. In municipalities and cities where there are no public notebooks I really don't see who else could put together a real estate transport contract but a judge. There was another thesis that I also disagreed with, I didn't agree at the Justice Committee's session this morning, the state administration and local self-government, which is that certification of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts shouldn't be a court's business, or that building a real estate contract shouldn't be a job in courts. Why isn't this thesis true? Because even after the adoption of these laws, there will be certain jobs that are primarily done by basic courts, which are not contained in the trial, in the basic sense of that word. Therefore, even after the adoption of these laws, courts will do certain things that do not consist in resolving disputes, or which do not constitute criminal sanctions. I took that argument and used it at the board meeting this morning. For example, according to the Law on Out-of-Parking Procedure, courts today, as they will since September 1st, will be doing a job that is not a trial in terms of dispute resolution. For example, it's letting a minor get married. When you're looking at purely juridical, from the point of view of jusprudence, it's not a classic judicial business. So when a court allows a minor to marry, he does not settle any dispute, does not impose any sanctions on anyone, he gives someone the right to enter the marriage community. If the courts are already doing so and if the courts will continue to do so after September 1st, I don't see what the problem is that courts where there are no public notebooks verify the transcripts, manuscripts and signatures, or I don't see what the problem is that the judge is going to be the one who puts it on paper, which means the form of a public record, to avoid any possible mystification about what it really means, I don't see why the judge can't do that job. Of course, it would be ideal to remove everything that is not a trial in the classical sense of that word from the courts, but it is obvious that in this situation in which the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia is located, and public notebooks are part of the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, it is simply not possible, since they do not exist in all municipalities, or in all cities public notebooks. What is being asked as an alternative to what is written in the proposal of these two laws, so what if there are no public notebooks, and you did not allow the basic courts to carry out a copy of the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts on the one hand, and on the other hand you did not allow them to draw up an immovable transport contract, then the question is who will do so if you want complete legal traffic security, and the content of the Transport of Immobility Act makes it absolutely clear what the Intent of Government is – to prevent what was happening in certain environments, which is that one property is being trafficked two, three or more times, and then some of the Contracting Parties are simply deluded into error, pay for something that someone who had already bought before. So the government has done one perfectly correct and only possible way. Therefore, it allowed the basic courts to verify signatures, transcripts, and manuscripts, i.e. judges to draw up real estate contracts from the point of view of the Constitution, from the point of view of our legal system. I also say that as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. The SNS sees absolutely nothing controversial about it. What has emerged as a thesis is that it is not constitutional that the proposal states that these two laws enter into force on 1 September 2014. It is true that the Constitution says that it is a regular situation for the laws and other general acts to enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", but it is also true that Article 196 of Article 4 decidently states that they can enter early if there are justified reasons for this being laid down in the law-making process. It is absolutely justified that these two draft laws, or laws, come into force on 1 September 2014, again in the interest of citizens in order to ensure full security of legal traffic. What is also an argument in favor of the government of the Republic of Serbia which has proposed these laws, as well as of all the parliamentary groups who will vote in favour of these draft laws, or something in which colleagues from the opposition are wrong, is that as a problem, a question has been raised as to why a copy of the signature, transcription and manuscript will be held by the municipal administration as a trusted job. Well, in many situations, the municipal administration has done so far and has done no harm to anyone. What the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also writes, which is also an argument by the legislator of these laws, is that the Republic of Serbia has the right to have certain public powers entrusted among other units of local self-government. In this particular situation, it is the municipal administration. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not in any way violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, it consumes constitutional powers, which is that one public work, or one public authority, is, in this case, a copy of the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts, entrusted to someone who is not state entities. In this situation, it's the municipal administration. So, from the SNS' point of view, these are not only good solutions, these are the only possible solutions at the moment that Serbia does not have enough public notebooks. Of course, it is in the interest of all parliamentary groups, it is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the end, it is in the interest of the courts themselves to have public notebooks much more than it is now simple for courts to dissipate a part of the work that does not consist in a trial in the right sense of the word. But until it is achieved that we have an optimal number of public notebooks, I really don't see what's an alternative to what's in the motion for a traffic law on immovable property, or what's an alternative to what's written in the bill on the certification of signatures, transcripts and manuscripts. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of all three draft laws that have been discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7709	People's MP Riza Halimi isn't here. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7710	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the laws necessary for the full application of the Law on Public Records and, at the same time, I must stress the proposals of the law that will affect most Serbian citizens in one way or another, because most citizens throughout their lives need to verify some document, photocopy or copy thereof, to conclude some contract and not to list all the cases covered by these laws. Because of the widespread application of the number of citizens to which it applies, these laws have great significance. Because of their importance, these laws should be passed. They partially regulate new matter, and they partially regulate the matter that has been regulated by laws that have already been overcome, because it has been a long time since their adoption and that matter needs to be brought into line with the new laws and the changes that life itself brings. Given the importance of these laws and the number of citizens to be applied to, I must conclude that it is unacceptable to put them in the process in the National Assembly in this way. The Law on Public Registration was passed in 2011 and was delayed, but it was time enough for regular preparation procedures, public debates to be held and to be delivered to the National Assembly for consideration under regular procedure. What's the reason for using an emergency procedure again? The ruling majority has been leading Serbia for two years. That's enough time to get to know all the obligations and needs, especially as far as legislative action is concerned. Is it a matter of the irresponsibility and inability of the ministries and the Government to take a timely look at what it is necessary to do and how it is proposed by the ordinary procedure to pass laws to the National Assembly, or is it a demeaning and arrogant attitude towards the National Assembly, counting that they have a total majority and that everything proposed will be voted upon and under the procedure under which it is proposed. So we've come into a situation where we've been passing laws for so long during the weekend. This is contrary to the principles of a transparent democratic society, and the question is whether there is an abuse in interpreting certain constitutional provisions that provide for exceptions rather than emergency rules. I will not repeat what has already been said about these bill proposals, and they have said enough, both my fellow MPs and Mr. Minister as a representative. I'll only talk about two things. Repeating what my colleague Homen said, that my colleagues from the New Democratic Party and I have submitted an amendment to the bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which we propose to extend the deadline for the basic courts or municipal administrations to carry out the tasks of overtures of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, which would prevent the creation of a legal traffic jam. I'll talk about the amendment when there's more debate in detail. Secondly, I will talk about the issue that counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic was talking about. Why are immovable transport contracts concluded in the form of a public-recorded record for which the assembly is exclusively competent public notebook in whose area the immovableity is located? It's true that this area has never been regulated before. The construction of a real estate transport contract was done by lawyers and real estate agencies, lawyers who were employed somewhere and those who did not work anywhere, but also by ignorant parties. Therefore, there were many disputes before the courts that were caused by unskilled immovableity contracts. That phenomenon should stand in the way. It is good to introduce a specific record of public-recorded records in fixed-moving contracts. But in my opinion, it was also necessary to provide for the possibility that the public notary would verify the signatures on the real estate contracts drawn up by lawyers, provided there was an attorney's seal on the contract. This is because lawyers are both professional and responsible for their work and ultimately pay taxes on their work. This would avoid the possibility of contracts being drawn up by ignorant parties or lawyers who are not authorized to do so. There's a tradition that family or company have lawyers who run legal affairs and I think this beautiful tradition should be maintained. With laws like this, you wipe it all out. Because of everything I've said, MPs of the New Democratic Party in voting day will declare these bill proposals depending on whether you accept our amendments or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7711	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Madam Chairman, of course I will support this law. Right at the beginning, I don't think implementing this law is going to be easy. I believe that, like everything else in Serbia, we are going to be a little late. This Law on Public Records, these laws that are compatible with these laws, was started in 2010 and some former furniture in parliament, some former government furniture, some former regime needed this law on public notebooks, this accompanying law to bring order long ago. Serbia has lost that law. Today, we listen to criticism that comes from these ranks precisely from those people who failed to convene these congregations before the Law on Public Libraries and follow the laws to bring them into order. Today we wouldn't be doing this job and Mr. Selakovic would be doing a whole other job, and of course we might be doing some other business on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and this is because of someone else's negligence, not work, and today we have to sit on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, in order to complete and follow the laws, as well as to follow a law that should have long been passed and implemented. But we're lucky they fell in time. We've been hearing about some unseen taxes today. I'm always against tax hikes. As the minority lived, the people barely survived. Until this law was passed, the rights of ordinary people, their economic power, their social status fell. The poverty they are in has become unsustainable. All the consequences that have arisen have been left to us, as has been left to supplement this law. If the people were lucky, which they fell in 2012, I'd only list a few data. So, there have been a lot of complaints about taxis here, about public note fees, about how they have been dramatically increased, etc., and precisely by those who think that all the people in this Parliament have short memories. I am obliged to remind the citizens, the MPs, who were then current, as well as the MPs who were later elected, in which way it was ruled and what draconian taxes and rewards were provided for public notaries by the former regime and their minister of justice. I'll give you a few examples. Today, those who backed 2011, including the 2012 draft tariff law, rebelled. So he predicted it like this. A confirmation of life in 2011, 2012, as predicted by the former regime, and their minister of justice was supposed to cost 3,000 dinars. So if you wanted to prove that you were alive during the former regime, they wanted to predict under the Law on Public Libraries and Tariffs that the life certificate cost 3,000 dinars. Each one of them was to cost around 3,000 dinars under the 2011 and 2012 tariff proposal proposed by Mrs Malovic. Any decision by the managing authority of any company, over this type of company, made a public-book prize to public notebooks of 90,000 dinars. So much was predicted in 2011 and 2012, they took from the economy that they were greatly dead. The record from the company’s founding sessions, depending on whether they were companies with one owner or were stock companies, a fee or a public-book prize they had provided for such a type of work for over one record should have cost between 120 and 500,000 dinars. It's precisely those who predicted this kind of dragon cab and public-book prize today that we hear that some taxes are far less inappropriate to today's society. I would understand that, I believe that poverty is great, I believe that five dinars for some big money, I believe that 50 dinars is big money for some, but I can't accept it when those who have fat-filled their pockets are emptying the pockets of ordinary people, who have led to poverty that is unsustainable to look at it, when they're today pushing for less tax rights, to a smaller public-book prize, even though they've predicted these public-reporting rewards that ranged from 3,000 to 500,000 dinars, and it's true that in time they've been brought down by the citizens in 2012, they no longer wanted to trust such a political group, and once again to underline that it's almost impossible for them to predict that the poor, poor, poor man was just a confirmation of life alone was supposed to cost 3,000 dinar. I believe these public-book prizes won't be that big, I believe it'll be twice as much. I will dare say, and we will see this when the new government brings new tariffs, that I believe that these public-book prizes will be five times less than those predicted by Mrs. Snezana Malovic with her proposal for public-book tariffs. What I still want to comment on, and what is not clear to me, when cases and municipalities are entrusted with affairs, and I ask Mr. Minister, since I do not see him paying attention, to verify, I ask for an interpretation, who, since other laws have found that contracts are exclusively public notaries, and if these contracts are concluded in the territories of municipalities and cities where the public notary is not, will ask for interpretation - who will put these contracts together in cities and municipalities where we do not now have public notebooks, given that under the Law on Overtures of Signatures, etc., it is envisaged that courts and municipalities, i.e. municipal bodies, are doing this as entrusted matters, so I ask, and I ask you – who, in such situations, will draw up real estate contracts which are part of public-book correctment and which, according to Article 4. Laws only run by public notebooks? I'm asking for that interpretation of the purely viewers for the sake of it. I have to say, because of some obligations in court, I haven't been able to follow up on the whole session, so I'm allowing the minister to explain it, and I haven't heard it. Also, what I want to ask is, I think there are a little wider rights for public notaries that when in the contract, and that was foreseen by some earlier draft, so I don't know if it's going to be repeated, suspicions of the value mentioned in the contract can determine the market value based on certain parameters, so it's not hard to assume that public notebooks when it's somewhere on the edge of 500,000 dinars are trying to transfer it to some larger amount just to get a bigger public-book refund and increase their tax. There's a problem with that. I have proposed amendments in view of the enormous poverty and the frequent transport of land where very small parcels are inherited by legal followers, and I have suggested that there be a transfer of tax traffic of fixed property in the fields and catastrian municipalities and cities, inhabited places, or less than 5,000 inhabitants, to be halved and to be subject to provisions such as gifts where only 50% of that tax is paid. I have proposed such an amendment since I believe that due to the frequent change in ownership, due to the extinction of a village where there is no dog to lag in many villages, one parcel is inherited by five followers and there is traffic every year, these parcels often cost no more than 100 euros, and that public-book prizes and taxes may cost only for these purposes about 30,000 dinars, and therefore I anticipated that such taxes would be halved in situations where traffic is carried out on agricultural land and in rural areas. I'll vote for that amendment anyway. I don't know if the government will accept it. With regard to the fact that the public register has the right to establish a price higher than indicated in the contract, and an example of why I believe that the Government had reason to assume in such a draft that the public notary had the right to question market value. I will state during the government of one regime, which I partly supported in 2000, so I had to give it up, there was traffic for certain sugars that, despite the value of tens of millions of euros trafficked by three euros. I wonder if this is what happens today if a public notary would have the right to, say, accept the contractual value of the state in a contract with the "MK Komerco", financial director of the party of the former regime. If a public notary suspected of such a species, that it existed then, he could have suspected and said – stand up for a few of you comrades from that and that party, it is a financial director, but a sugar cane with eightm euros of sugar on it, which has three million euros in the account, as had a sugar shop in Kovacica. In such situations, a public notary could enter into that contract a market value that moved into tens of millions of euros and say, "Stop, you are the financial director of a particular party, you are the godfather of some leaders in the coalition, but what is much is much, and can't something that cost 10m euros to sell for three million euros. Another example of why a public notary should exist is when a former prime minister decides to take 525,000 euros from the state against the rules for spring planting in 2007. If he wanted to traffic even though the subsidy did not follow him because the lease of land happened only in November 2007, so spring in Serbia could not happen in November, so contrary to the regulations it was withdrawn and when he wanted to alienate it, let's say, what would happen to Mr. Minister, if this happens now and some transport contracts of half of these vineyards are carried out on the Virgin Islands, so the former prime minister takes and half of the vineyards to be translated into the owner, the Vinous Venturis Virgin Islands, in such situations – which the public-book service will be in charge of, because today we have seen of such persons the most objections to public-book jobs although their overtures are very dubious contracts long ago completed. I expect answers to these questions, about – what will happen to contracts that will be made in municipalities where there are no public notebooks? That's where the courts will verify those contracts. I'm asking since, under the second law, public notebooks are in charge of this, who in these municipalities is going to make contracts, is that going to be lawyers? I don't mind them doing it like they've done before. Are these parties going to make deals with each other? I don't mind. Just for the sake of the citizens who are already in line before the courts wanting to take advantage of the last day over I want an answer to those questions. Of course, I think the citizens understood that they would continue to carry out over the courts and that there is no reason for too much trouble in court right now. In the end, let's ask, if the contract is as I said, if the authority of the municipal authority is exercised, will the Minister also ask whether, in accordance with the Tax Act and some other laws, it will be a public record award, or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7713	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7714	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask a few simpler questions than my previous colleague, and this is more about this bill of approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Mr. Minister gave reasons today at the beginning that where there will be no notaries, since there is a considerable delay in passing the notary exams, that during this period the courts, local self-government, will continue to verify the signatures. However, now the question is open to me – what if, after a certain deadline that the bill sets, no expert notaries with a passed exam are provided in certain environments, what will be done in such situations? In my view, an even more important situation – when will one notary in Presevo, one in Bujanovac, be decided in the meantime? It's really unclear for me that experts and lawyers with a legal exam still can't pass the notary exam. If, in the meantime, these notes are done and provided, if the same Law on Parliamentary Elections and Obligations remain with national minorities to provide 10,000 signatures, judicially certified signatures to support the electoral list and minority, then in our case there will be at least 5,000 signatures certified in Presevo and 5,000 in Bujanovac, it is a large job. So far, we've asked the Ministry for help to strengthen the courts so that more than one verifyer would be on the ground to get this large-scale job, in a municipality of 5,000 or more signatures. In large parties in hundreds of municipalities by 100 signatures, they pick up very quickly, but in one municipality to do so, in a middle municipality to pick up over 5,000 judicially certified signatures, it's a huge job. Can a notary's office do a big job like this? This remains quite a dilemma. We've had our troubles in the last elections now, because you know, Mr. Minister, that after the Court of Justice went to Vranje, and the court's only child in Bujanovac, the President of the Bujanovac Court had to be the driver, the heating maintainer, and so on, to hire for the approval of signatures during the last elections. I can't imagine in these moments, can a big job like that be done by one notary office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7715	Thank you. There are no more registered speakers on the list. I ask before the search is concluded whether the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their rights under Article 96? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7716	Don't be angry, please. I was prevented from replicating the minister, so I wanted to clearly specify certain things about these bill proposals and agree with the minister on a few things. Of course we agree that this institute that is introduced into our judiciary and which these laws further specify is necessary. Also, we don't think there's any dilemma here. You've told me something in a semi-anecdotic sense, how it works when someone comes in and falsely legitimateizes themselves as a judge, if I recall correctly, I remind you of what you cited as an example. How terrible it is and how often it shows a desperate situation in some segments of our judiciary, but not just the judiciary, but our society. I also agree with you. I think whoever falsely legitimateizes and represents him is a man without fundamental honor and cannot perform his duty, so he and the minister of police or was someone who presents himself as a judge and is not a judge. You said VAT revenues were something that would certainly be good for the state. I agree with you, but I have to inform both you and the citizens of Serbia and my colleagues that in July alone, VAT revenues in Serbia are 3% lower because your government has raised all taxes and revenues have unfortunately fallen significantly. This shows the state of our public finances, so I do not believe that this essentially contributes significantly to the current situation in which Serbia is located. I think you said at one point that the appointments would be and were done solely under the law. Of course, every decent, normal and every citizen of this country will support that attitude, but I remind you and I support you in your desire to talk to people once again who have had certain objections to the appointment process. I'm glad that you've already had a meeting with them and I'm asking you to do it again because for me it's an amazing thing, that your attitude will be affected, that everything will be done exclusively under the law because it's said here that the Justice Department does not pass a sublegal act that would bring closer to the law the envisaged criteria for selecting public notebooks. Instead, in the absence of clear and precise rules, the competition commission has set out the criteria laid down in the law, it adopts its opinion on the basis of parameters and general assessments it itself creates and applies to submitted applications. Now I'm reading to you what the memo says, in question form, saying nothing to the minister, but I'm certainly worried about this. I am also concerned that the first condition foreseen by the law is success in the judicial exam, and on the side of the four opinions of the commission, it is said literally – success in the judicial exam could not have been a significant criterion, the end of the quote. I'm really worried about this. If this is true, and that's on the side of four, committee opinions, then we have a serious problem, then your view that everything will be done by law and by regulations is not in line with what happened when the candidates were elected, i.e. selecting future public notebooks. That's what I wanted to tell you. I think there is a vague question of the general impression of the members of the commission, what is the general impression of members of the commission who are stinging from 0 to 15, and they spoke to the candidates, with 20 in one day from two to four in the afternoon? I agree with you on what, if you remember, for a public notary, for an intern. I agree, and I think your explanation is appropriate, but please, then, why don't we put it in that article? And you and I as lawyers think that we'll agree that it's always better when something is written than something that's meant or pulled out of other members. I don't think that would create any legal confusion, on the contrary. Nothing costs you in a political or professional sense to do something like that, and I think it would be a step that would at least one of the misunderstandings that you've seen easily created out of nothing. You explained that part very well. Also, I have to say that what you said, and what I see now has received media attention, and that is that none of the public notebooks are politically placed on that function, I believe you, but the problem is that, in the meantime, since you and I had that exchange of views and information came to me, there has been a lot of information from all over Serbia that calls me and convinces me that it is true. So, if most of these people were a party, not a direct name, I don't think there was any party commission or that you were personally, even if you knew who was a member of the SNS or not a member of the SNS, but I think it would be good to avoid that problem with the 600 judges we talked about, that you're telling us now, not personally, do you have any knowledge whether these people are members of the SNS or not? That would be good for the citizens of Serbia. Here is a business man mentioned earlier, the owner of MK Komerca, Mr Kostic, in one way, seems to me to be one adequate way, and especially if we know that he is a man who is now very close to the government and very close to Mr. Vukic, and a man who is offered to run public enterprises in Serbia, and I was not somehow comfortable when someone from the SNS calls Mr. Kostic. I don't think we understand the government's policy...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7717	Just to explain to me in the context of the contract's clearance, about the immovableity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7718	So I want to ask you about the immovableity contract. I've got a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7719	Whatever, but just to be in the dark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7720	So, say, we ministers, taking into account my ignorance and ignorance of all the details, and I apologize in advance, but let's say, with the project "Belgrade on water" I would ask the gentlemen of most and distinguished ladies, if I may be quieter, I can't hear myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7721	Ambassador, you know who runs the session so you can ask me and all of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7722	The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. The "Belgrade on Water" project, I'm interested in who will now be doing these immovable objects in this case, to make documents on the transfer of the right of immovable property, let's say, within the framework of the project, if we know there are 10 people in Belgrade who can do this. How, for example, it will be decided which one of these public notebooks, this very luxuriant job will also be obtained by what criteria, whether it will be a tender or simply a government will decide which one of these public notebooks eventually a member or a close SNS without you knowing it. Let's just say, that would be interesting to know. That's, like, a specific thing. How are you going to decide who's going to do it, and how are those other people who won't get to do it for "Belgrade on Water" how do they feel? Why? So that's where we create, I agree that this is one sensitive terrain, something new for our judicial system, one missed chance, a decades-old that didn't exist in our system that is correcting this, and I also agree with you that everything is fine and that everything is going to work great. I think it was very little time that people were unprepared not to know where they can achieve their rights and contact with public notebooks, regardless of what you're making effort and putting, as you said address and phone and people from all over Serbia, on your website of the Ministry, because I'm afraid this will cause further problems to our citizens, unaccustomed to this institute, and to the public notaries themselves, who are just stalking this job. And in the end, you didn't answer how you interpreted the fact that the Chamber was made public-book, with 94 notebooks, and it takes 100 by law and why it wasn't done a year ago when they were 55, in order to be legal. Does that mean that what's done is illegal, and I think it is. So how do you think you can correct that and when and how will you speed people up to be more public notebooks to cover all of Serbia? How do you interpret the fact that there are only so many today, and so much time for their preparation and installation and everything else that required the formation of this important judicial institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7723	Minister, would you like a word, in the end? All right, all right. Zoran Babic, same Article 96. Here's 10 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7724	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7725	Let me just explain to the MPs, under Rule 96, I can't hear you, what do you say to Article 96? There's nothing to allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7726	I thank you once again for this explanation, although some strange controversy has taken place in this House, but also in our society that, as if there was a desire for the voice of the SNS to be silenced, in the best and to shut down. All that's said and everything the SNS says is a threat to the charges of silence, threats are all kinds of nature, just not to continue with the reforms, and there seems to be some desire to get out of Parliament and out of our society. It's a very strange view of democracy and defining where only one party that has created our country for 12 years, has brought it to ruin, wants to silence and shut down and destroy everyone else. A Serbian Progressive Party, such as respected colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, will vote in favour of all three draft laws and on the certification of signatures, manuscripts, transcripts and the proposal for a law on the transport of immovable property and addition of the Law on judicial fees. We believe that in addition to the amendments that we have submitted as a parliamentary group, which will carry out one additional grinding of these draft laws, these laws will bring one new value, or we will return to the roots which my colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja has very well elaborated, that the introduction of notaries is actually one of the values that has been in our society for decades back. In this way, we believe that the courts will be disbursed and that the courts will do the job they are authorized to do by law and by the Constitution, that we will not have litigation that has been conducted for years, not to say for decades, and that the availability of justice, to citizens, will be much faster and easier. We appreciate the efforts, Mr. Minister, which you have made through these bill proposals and predicted, the efforts that you see all the specificities of our society, you realize that we currently have 94 notaries who passed the exam in Serbia. Here I would agree with the opinion and with the aspects expressed by the esteemed colleague Martinovic, when he said, what is the government responsible for, because 94 people passed the exam on the notary? Was the government's job to establish all the criteria or to lower those criteria, so that we could get people to do that job, but not qualified enough? I believe that the government's job to make good legal frameworks, such as these legal frameworks, is to define exams that will not be easy, which will not be such that everyone can pass, but will be able to pass and do the most qualitative ones, because for SNS, the quality of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not membership in any other party, or any other familiarity, or phone number of any powerful individual in our country. That's why I think the criteria you've prescribed and the scales you've raised, Mr. Minister, when passing the notary exams, must remain at the same height and let them skip the highest quality. On the other hand, this connection of notaries who passed the exam with SNS membership, you know, SNS has, I don't want to be boastful of that praise, but SNS has so many members that we can cover notaries not all of Europe, but also a good part of the world. At this point, 94 people have passed the notary exam. Ninety-four people can do that job. I hope those of you who haven't been laid or laid yet, but who haven't given enough knowledge, will make an effort and we'll fill in the other 280 seats you've given Mr. Minister and evaluate. I think we have talked enough about some better conditions for Serbian citizens who make these solutions. We used to have a situation that the taxes motivated it to be bigger and the more expensive the real estate that the obligations and fees were less. Now it's turned around. Now these laws are turned to ordinary people, unfortunately to those who are willing and forced to sell their heritage, to sell a piece of land to sell sons, daughters, grandchildren, grandchildren, to school them, to enable them to have a decent and normal life, to have such people who sell or buy these small properties, and less value, to pay less. Finally, with another confirmation that the SNS parliamentary group will vote in full capacity for this proposed solution, with gratitude to all colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group on high-quality discussions today. One thing I'm going to say, which I just can't convince myself I'm going to say, which is that I'm going to agree with the previous speaker in one thing. I'll agree that false representation is bad. It is bad when someone presents himself as the province's prime minister and has 6% support for Serbian citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina. That's really bad. And by that I'll agree...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7727	I'm asking Ambassador Babic to come back on the subject. Don't let us spread political issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7728	I'm going back on the subject, with this one finding that we agree on that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7729	I accept the example, as well as for "Belgrade on Water", but don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7730	... .. about false representation, and that's what I end up with. In any case, Mr. Minister, another message that with such criteria, with such high standards and with work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7731	I have to give the replica to Borislav Stefanovic, the party president was mentioned, as I understand it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7732	Not as many presidents as the party itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7733	He certainly has a basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7734	You don't have to react like that. I say that just to encourage you, so most people don't react when the prime minister is mentioned, because it's the person of the prime minister. She was never attacked directly and personally, but when you mention your political organization, of course. It's more of a request. You can do whatever you want, of course. So, we've brought out here, dear colleague, some I'd say a lot of precise things you don't have to agree with. We've made some misunderstandings. We've raised questions that citizens ask. You answer that the way this is a good law and everyone who says otherwise is slandering and lying. It's your style. You also say that you have enough executives to cover all of Europe, so many members. I don't know, to tell you the truth, if anyone would say anything better about your political organization than yourself for saying this. You really have so many executives that you could cover all of Europe, given that every day around 1,000 Serbian citizens join your organisation to get a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7735	Just explain to me what kind of replica this is?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7736	What Mr. Babic said. Why is he like that? You're asking me what kind of replica it is?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7737	Yeah. After you say we don't have the right to a replica. Go ahead. I'll give it to the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7738	This is a decent replica, and I'd say quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7739	Not because of that, but the replica refers to the exact statement of what someone said. You have your time. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7740	Someone in Serbia can stand up for a while and yell at political opponents much less than they do, as we have huge power behind us and huge support. It can say it very loudly several times, but it won't make it an eternal value, it'll make a temporary value, because it works...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7741	Now the 18 seconds I took are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7742	Just a sentence. Because actions deny what you're declaring, gentlemen you're calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7743	Replica Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7744	As far as anyone is concerned and is not in the subject of the fact that an esteemed colleague is a previous speaker, he spoke about the perpetrators, and I would remind him that this is now a bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, but also the main theme on notaries and notaries, so it has nothing to do with the perpetrators. What I would repeat once again, I know that there are people who change their minds overnight, if necessary, so the hour is acceptable, so the hour is not acceptable, and that this acceptability, or inadmissibility, is related to the retention of the chair and to the retention of the benefits, but it does not take ten to fifteen minutes to change its mind. The opinion that was said to be false is bad, now suddenly it's become a false representation of good. I continue to argue that Mr. Bojan Pajtic is still prime minister of the AP Vojvodina, falsely representing himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7745	Don't, please, he's still Prime Minister Vojvodina elected to parliament, I have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7746	I'm not saying it still is, but it represents anyone who has only 6% of the support of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina, and it is represented by all the power and all the leverage of the government that shows both through the Development Bank and through the Capital Investment Fund and over all the values that have been devastated in the AP Vojvodina, I think it does a bad thing not for itself, not for its organisation, doing a bad thing for the citizens of Serbia living in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7747	Thank you. Is anyone not answering by article 96 yet? (No) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7748	I thank the esteemed president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think I've ever shown any kind of haughtiness in the Assembly that would indicate that there are forbidden questions that can be asked me. They don't exist and I don't think it's a good thing that there's no such thing as a representative home, not even in our esteemed National Assembly. The criteria for the evaluation of candidates for public notebooks are laid down by law. Such a law was passed by the parliamentary majority in 2011. The party I'm honored to belong to didn't participate in writing that law. During today's debate, I said that despite the shortcomings that this law has, in its essence, it is good. He says good to our people – he sits wrong, but he says the right thing; you will always be able to expect it from me. It is true that the law prescribed criteria that were successful in the judicial exam, and the legislator ignored the fact that our judicial exam was assessed by a descriptive assessment of “put” or“ laid down with distinction. ” Two grades. "Signed by distinction" among those who have had the opportunity to pass a judicial exam or attend a judicial exam, they know very well that in Serbia it is a real rarity, which is good. It means that for this greatest success in the judicial exam, there is still one criterion. I'm not familiar with the fact that there's a candidate for a public notary who passed the judicial exam with a medal without being elected public register. The second criterion is success in the public record exam. In a memo quoted here, there's something that's absolutely non-sensual. I've had a chance to spend a part of my working, short but working life in the academic environment, and I know it's incomparably harder when you're being questioned by more than one interrogator. The provisions on the submission of a public notary exam that are being disputed, at the time I became minister of justice, were such that the examination committee consisted of five six members, and only three members were questioned by one candidate. By amending and supplementing the law, it has been amended in the regulation that the commission has five members and that all five members are being questioned by one candidate. So there's a commission of six members, three are interrogating one, and here's a commission of five members and all five, without being able to adjust as possible, I'm not saying it was done, but it was possible, you have six, so you say -- these three are going to question this, and those three are going to question the other candidates. No, this is the same interrogators, and they're all questioning one candidate together. It is clear to anyone who has passed the exams, and especially these difficult exams, that it is more difficult to pass the exam. I am proud of one fact, and that is that I asked the members of the competition commission to request written consent from the candidates to record the conversation in tone. Every conversation with the candidates was recorded and identical questions were originally asked to each candidate. It's a shame some of them responded. That's why I said that I could look everyone in the eye in the matter of any story, whether it's a national MP, whether it's an unselected public notary, whether it's a selected public notary, whether it's the Guardian of Citizens, because everything that was discussed there is documented. What do you say when a candidate comes to you who's supposed to be appointed since September 1st to start verifying his signatures, if he's arguing with you when you ask him why he didn't sign his own application at the competition? What are you going to tell the candidates who are writing an anonymous complaint about the results of the election without even reading the Law on Public Records, in which it is very clear that there is no right to appeal, but only the right to appeal to the Administrative Court that initiates the administrative dispute? What do you say to whoever came and said he was a judge, and he told you the whole truth and not what he said, but he wrote it in his biography that he delivered? What do you say to the candidate who comes and tells you in person that a family member has been fictitiously paying his job for four, five or eight years, and then comes and complains that he's not among the chosen, or maybe someone thinks that people like that should have been appointed? When I said - I did not take part in lawmaking, I thought of the fact that by the provisions of this law, regardless of the opinion of the competition commission, by law which I did not write, I had the right to choose whoever I wanted, which is the law that most of them passed in the period 2008 to 2012. So, the minister of justice, whoever was at the moment of the appointment of public notebooks, could choose anyone who met the conditions, or any person who met the conditions. There is a fine sentence of Socrates, not directly related to this, but can be applied, says: “When a man enters marriage he will repent, and whoever does not enter into marriage will repent. ” Whoever conducted this procedure would be confronted with stories like this. You have stated, or one of the predecessors, that the competition commission has derogated the criteria. Absolutely incorrect. "Audiatur et alter paras" - you can't hear the other side, and you bring the court. An unsigned letter has been quoted. Someone is unable to stand behind something that is responsible and claims rather important things with their name and last name. Anyone who signed a memo and asked for a meeting got it, and they'll get it. That was never the issue with me in the cabinet. None of the unselected candidates who came didn't tell me – people were elected on the political line, and according to the law passed by some other majority, even that was possible. Someone has been selecting judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors on the political line or the family line for so long, it has been almost five years since then, so he has passed the Law on Public Note that he could do the same, but he seems to have no hope at that time, carried with that enthusiasm, that someone else will come to power and that someone else who comes to power will not think in such a way. There's no general impression of what someone looks like or talks about. The candidates were asked exactly the formulated questions concerning the criteria for choice. When you're choosing someone as a public notary, I guess it's normal to ask him how he thinks he's gonna organize his own public-book office. In order to avoid any kind of attempt on the political groundup, with an apology given in advance, who will draw up contracts when it is traded with real estate built under the Project "Belgrade on Water", there will be public notebooks covering the area of the court in whose territory these properties are also located. As far as I know, the "Belgrade on Water" project needs to be implemented in the area it belongs to, according to the judicial network, the First Court and the Third Court. So one part is on the south side of Sava, the other is on the north side of Sava. As far as I know, over 20 public notebooks have been appointed for these two areas. Whichever of them will do it will be decided by the party itself. If you have five public notebooks in the area of one court and you are one of the parties, you will decide who you will go to with the other party. It's something that a stranger absolutely stands at his disposal. Maybe trying to insinuate what's been said here and how it makes sense for you to have only one public notary for the first court. If you only had one, then you would all be referred to this man, so that attempt to insinuate could be successful. Like this, I'm afraid he's absolutely unsuccessful. I didn't say anything at all, and it's all going to work perfectly, but those insinuations that appeared on purpose yesterday in one newspaper, so that one authority today would come out, calling exclusively for information without a source, and trying to produce some kind of hickey, are absolutely incorrect. Whoever said he didn't know where he was going to work could have been following the news mostly on all televisions with national frequencies, according to the information where you can find, therefore, the entire public notebook directory, and it's been classified in the seats since, if I'm not mistaken, Backe Palanca or Bačka Petrovac, I'm not sure which is the first to Capca, in alphabetical order all public notebooks and the address of their headquarters are listed. There's one thing I've learned in the conversation with colleagues who are representatives of public records chambers, but also the ministries of justice of the states in the environment. Almost everyone told me one thing that, when you first encounter this activity, it sounds amazing. For example, a colleague from Montenegro told me -- you won't believe in less than three years from now how much more legally educated and legally written, thanks to public records. One question has been asked on which I can only thank - when are we going to encourage other candidates or graduate lawyers, who meet the conditions, to run for other public places? You will also have opportunities as MPs to make your contribution in this regard by deciding on a draft law amending the Law on Public Records. I have already come up with a proposal that in places where we no longer have judicial units, where we no longer have municipal, or basic courts, and we have premises, i.e. in the property of the Ministry of Justice, or the Republic of Serbia, which is used by the Ministry of Justice where there were courts and judicial units by yesterday, to come out in these passive areas of the state with a proposal and to offer to the candidate for a public notary that we can use this room for five years without compensation by paying the costs of regular maintenance and that there is a public record office there. I must confess that this proposal has come across a much greater approval in these countries where the register already works, than we do. I won't give it up. Another incentive measure will be that the candidate who, for example, accepts to go for a public notary in Bolovac and performs his public record work in Bolovac or in Plandište or in Bač or Arilj, such a public notary will, after a certain period, take precedence over the next election for a notary in a larger city. Of course, provided that the existing office is not shut down. It is something that exists in countries where the literature is formed and already has some tradition of its existence. Questions have been asked about the overes. I'd like to resolve one misunderstanding. A respected fellow from the southeastern Serbian or southern Serbian municipalities, as you will, asked a question – what about municipalities in which no public notebook is appointed until March 1st, who will continue the regular tasks of the authorities and units of local self-government today? Courts and units of local self-government. You may not have understood me very well, but by March 1st, there will be dualism in these affairs. A citizen, for example, in Zrenjanin will be able to choose whether to go to court, to the city administration building or to the public register. In the same Zrenjanin on March 1st he will be able to go only to a public notary, and let's say in Bujanovac, if we don't give God, we won't have a public notary on March 1st and will continue to go to the municipality and to court until he is appointed public register. I have to tell you, seeing as how we've conjecture the part of jurisdiction, the way the notebooks operate in Serbia, that from many countries around us, they tell us that it's incomparably better than how it started with them. That doesn't mean I think this is gonna be impeccable and awesome. It takes a strong alliance between the Chamber and the Ministry and not giving up the ministry, as counterpart Pantic Pilja said, from carrying out controls on the work of the notebooks. That's where they'll have to work, because they've got an important job to deal with. Before I finish my presentation, I would add, one of my distinguished colleagues said that people were not timely informed of the changes that followed. I think I've had about 30 public statements since the beginning of this year that concerned only public notebooks. Someone might say it's not enough. I've used every opportunity to talk about it, and not just me, but my co-workers from the Ministry. I'm gonna go back to the important detail one more time. Why isn't 100 notebooks appointed? Whoever didn't hear me well, I'll be happy to say it again. It's not because they haven't applied for the 100 seats. The candidates who passed the public-recording exam and meet the conditions to be elected for public notebooks, where I will correct my colleague Babic, accidentally made one mistake, there are almost 180. Our problem is that if I'm not mistaken, 178, who have applied, have not applied for certain places at all. No one competed in Arangelovac. No one competed in Gornji Milanovac. No one competed in Choca. No one competed in Požega. The question can be asked - what were you calling a competition for places where no one would compete? We set up a competition for places where there were candidates who met the conditions, but they didn't apply for that contest. So everything that was in the state, or at the ministry, was done. Absolutely everything. We can't compare that situation when we have almost 180 people who meet the conditions of the situation a year and a half ago when they were 55. They're simply incomparable. It is a provision that is in the transitional and final provisions of the law. I must confess that when I came to the place of the minister of justice almost every single one of these provisions was violated, which means that the previous assembly of the Ministry almost no obligation from those scheduled and prescribed has been fulfilled. I don't know if you've heard me here for the first time that I attacked one of my predecessors over that particular thing one time. This wasn't an attack, this was a finding. What they look like and what the reception offices will look like, or the overa room in the courts on September 1st. We were able to see how many citizens didn't know what to do on September 1st, she showed us a crowd on the counters in Belgrade courts over the past few days, because they knew that since September 1st, they won't be able to carry out that kind of authority. If they didn't know anything, it would probably be like every 20th, or the last week of August of the year. Are all citizens familiar with the work of public notebooks, I will tell you that not all Serbian lawyers are familiar with it either. If you give as much as you can to get people to know that, and yet I repeat that I'm countless times, I don't want to talk about last year, this year I've talked about it, animated people to apply for exams. And today, if all the candidates who meet the conditions, who have passed the public-recording exam, if we appointed them, we'd still have seats. There are fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a little and a little and a little bit more human vanity or something. Someone wonders how I'm worth it, and the other one's worth it differently. I think there's a case of two people who are, and they also appeared in the chamber, in the ministry, extremely good friends. One of those two people was named, and the other one wasn't. Now they're not talking. It's all part of our mentality somewhere that looks like we're gonna have a hard time changing. Once again, I am responsibly saying, and I therefore conclude, anyone who tries to say that the appointment of public notebooks has been done according to some political criteria, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not telling the truth. He's absolutely not telling the truth. I think there are members of some opposition parties among the candidates appointed. I think so. I can't say for the most part, but I think there are. Was that what I was interested in? I wasn't absolutely interested. If such a person had met the condition, he could have come to that place. I belong to a party who didn't have a problem even if the minister's office is being run by people who belong to some of these parties, and I don't see, if we were able to propose someone from a fully rival political camp for a ministerial function, why can't someone like that become a public notary? There are people who, during the first probationary period when I was not a minister, passed the exam that was appointed for the notebooks. Thank God he's got them. Thanks to that, I can calmly say if it's the discrimination someone's trying to talk about. I also think that the National Assembly, with all due respect to this high house, is not the right address to resolve a possible legal error during a process like this. You can talk about it all the time, but trying to accuse the court here when in these homes was accused and tried, it didn't end well. Convinced that we will have a good debate in particular, confident that by reviewing the proposed amendments we will also be able to improve the quality of the text of the law and confident that if we continue to do as we have done so far that public notation in Serbia will function extremely well, I urge you to support these three draft laws and vote for them in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-29-0.u7749	I thank Minister Nikola Selakovic for his participation in today's session. I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. 1, 2nd and 3rd agenda. We'll continue tomorrow on the agenda at 10:00. Thank you.
