ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 134 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 176 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The first deputy prime minister and candidate for minister made a mistake, and they put in the cards. He forgot the first vice president of the government how it was done when he was an MP. I would ask only the MPs, and the minister and candidate for minister to draw out the cards, to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to re-enter their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 174 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the sittings of National MP Dr Miljana Nikolic, Dubravka Filipovski, Snezana Malović, Goran BogdanovićIvan Karic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and exceptional for Monday, i.e. other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to choose the Minister of Finance as soon as possible. Dear ladies and gentlemen, as you could see, for the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 I established the following D n e n e d: 1. We're going to work on the agenda. Before we continue to work, it is necessary that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 279. The Rules of Procedure finds the resignation of a member of the Government. You have accepted the resignation of government member Dr Dusan Vujovic as Minister of Industry. On the basis of Article 133. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 279. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly found that Dr Dusan Vujovic resigned as Minister of Industry and that, on the day of his resignation, he had suspended the term of office of Minister of Industry. They accepted the proposal of a candidate for a member of the Government who is in agreement with Article 133(8). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The Government Act, submitted by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. In this way, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met: - to open a search for a candidate for a member of the Government, - to elect a member of the Government and - to take an oath before the National Assembly. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure have a total debate time of five hours, as if this time is also being allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word in the order of the MPs. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening an investigation into the motion for a candidate for a member of the government. Is the word of the motionary, first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7473	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words by explaining the proposal of Prime Minister, Mr Vukic for the new Finance Minister. Given that Mr Dusan Vujovic has already been elected in this parliament as Minister of Industry, and given that he has already participated several times here in the discussions over certain laws, let me remind at the shortest that it is about a man who has been proposed as an expert in this area, that it is about a man who has a lot of experience in working in the World Bank. I will also remind you that he worked as a representative of the SCG in the World Bank Board from 2001 to 2003. A job that will work in the next period, if it gets your trust, which I have no doubt, will not be easy to bear in mind that the economic and financial situation in our country is extremely difficult. What he can certainly look forward to at this time is that the Serbian budget in July achieved a surplus of nearly seven billion dinars, a result among other things and the measures taken, but also certain seasonal developments in income, VAT and excise. He doesn't have a lasting character, but he certainly is one good news. Mr Vujovic's plan, which he delivered to me and the Prime Minister, in terms of some of the next steps he will take, is to return to a sustainable level of deficit and public debt in three years, that detailed financial consolidation measures will be seen through budget rebalances for this year, which is expected to be in parliament in mid-September, with which fiscal consolidation will begin, while details will be seen in the 2015 draft budget with projections for 2016 and 2017. The essence of the strategy that Minister Vujovic will implement is that the burden of fiscal and structural adjustment will be evenly distributed to four pillars. First, a reduction in budget costs including a reduction in wages and pensions. The goal is to minimise this reduction that has high social and political costs. Two, the struggle of the gray economy, primarily the prevention of tobacco smuggling and the raising of excise duties to a historic level. Three, expanding the tax base and increasing the efficiency of tax collection, which will be combined as short- and deep-term reforms of the tax administration in the medium term. Four, an important increase in the efficiency of public businesses' work, which instead of current losses must become a significant source of revenue for the Republic of Serbia's budget, as countries in the region and the EU have a much higher percentage of the share of non-tax revenues compared to Serbia. All these details will be supported by a three-year programme with the IMF, a four-year partnership with the World Bank and EU programmes. This is a programme proposed by the finance minister himself, which I will remind you, the Prime Minister has proposed to this post as a candidate for this post. I am sure that he will be able to present all these goals set before him by both the government and the prime minister and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to his enormous experience, but also with the broad political support of the various political parties operating in this House, I am sure that he can hope for support, not only of the ruling coalitions, but of the opposition political parties, given that he worked and collaborated with them for another two thousand years, and bearing in mind that he was also your candidate in some of the functions he performed on your behalf in the beginning of two thousand years. I hope you don't mind one such profile, and that's why I think it would be good for him to be elected, given the measures he will take with the support of other political parties, not just the ruling coalition. I thank and call on the MPs to support Dusan Vujovic's election as the new finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7474	I thank the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, for the explanation. The first to be declared is MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7475	Dear Parliament Speakers, Deputy Prime Minister, respected Mr Vujovic, co-workers and colleagues, the state's reform is both a common goal of both SNS and SPO. Courage in facing problems that previous political elites did not want to solve, such as acceptance and implementation of the Brussels Agreement, showed the need for SNS and SPO to be very close. In the March 2014 elections, as an incomparably smaller partner, we participated in the promotion of the reform programme, but the current prime minister, Aleksandar Vukic, led the same. The labour law, a set of media laws, the fight against corruption and crime, the acceptance of the reality of KIM, the prime minister's strong foreign policy initiative that built Serbia's excellent positions in the world have strengthened the belief that as a state we are finally ready to face all the difficult challenges and that we are ready to solve inherited problems. We are just waiting for big steps in the area of fiscal consolidation, regulation of the market, overall economy and finance. The Serbian Renewal Movement will help maximise the possibilities of its political resources. Serbia finally has a prime minister who is the authority, in some previous periods ministers have laid an account with their parties. Today, the position of the minister represents taking responsibility and is measured exclusively by the impact in the resolutions that lead. The prime minister imposes responsibility on ministers for maximum engagement, which, I repeat, has not been the case before. We support insistence on concrete results. It is perfectly natural for the prime minister to elect his associates, not for his associates, as in some past times, to impose political trade and agreements on him. The SPO-DHSS parliamentary club will vote in favour of a proposal for the new finance minister to be Mr Vujovic. The candidate finance minister wants a lot of success in his work and we hope he will justify the expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7476	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7477	Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, Madam President, Mr. Vujovicu, ladies and gentlemen, SVM MPs will vote for Mr. Vujovic's election as finance minister. For years, we have been talking about creating normal Serbia. We are pleased that lately the prime minister has said this very often and certainly, if we want to create normal Serbia then we should imagine this country as a country where everyone pays taxes, in which they all have the same obligations, in which the laws that this National Assembly is making are respected. Indeed, new jobs should be created, the obligation is more in the power of the economy minister than is in the power of the finance minister, but financial stability is one of the preconditions for new investments and for creating new jobs. Today, countries are competitors in attracting foreign investors, potential foreign investors who should create new jobs, because unfortunately Serbia is not, like other countries in our region, able to create most of the possible new jobs we need. If we want to be competitive on the market of countries in our environment, then we need to work on creating a legal state and rule of law on the one hand, and on the other hand we need to create a country where legal certainty is at a high level and conditions should be created for the arrival of foreign investors by giving a signal that our country is a normal, orderly, decent state, as the prime minister has recently said very often. On the other hand, efforts should be made to create a system that is just or just. It doesn't have to be John Rolls to know, citizens expect and deserve the state to be just, that everyone pays taxes and other obligations and that the laws are applied in the same way to everything. That's what I'm saying because citizens have been saying very often lately, they say to me, and they say to you, Mr Vujovic, they say to other MPs and members of the government, that it's a good thing that we've amended the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and that stricter penalties are foreseen, because the state should react accordingly. Any serious normal state needs to collect taxes and other taxes so that it can carry out on the other hand those obligations that every modern state needs to carry out, and above all I mean paying out pensions, salaries, investments in the field of health, education, etc. Citizens have a subjective feeling, and I'm afraid it's not just subjective, that the state has been lately, in recent years, and hasn't done it all in the interest of everyone paying for it. People say that some are being seized by assets due to a few days late, some years not paying taxes, and they are talking about enormous amounts. I know it's been a lot done on this for the last months or the last two years, but I would ask Mr Vujovic to make sure it's even more serious and everyone pays their commitments evenly. I'm saying this because the IRS is part of the Ministry of Finance and needs to strengthen the capacity of the IRS so that it can carry out its obligations. I'd like to say two more specific things, two more concrete expectations I'd like to mention to you, the finance minister. We are part of the ruling majority and support the government's work and talk daily about solving two problems. The first problem concerns the payment of compulsory social security contributions by agricultural producers. According to the Ministry of Finance Act, the Ministry of Finance performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the basics of the social security contribution system and I therefore mention this particular problem. We have been having a problem for years, and this applies to the principle of justice or justice, which I was just saying, that all agricultural producers have a obligation to pay for the contribution of compulsory social security in the same amount, whether they process two hectares of land or half a hectare of land or 235 hectares of land. It's just not natural, it's not fair, it's not fair. In the same way as employees do not pay contributions, i.e. their employers in the same amount, if it is a net salary of 25 000 or 125 000 dinars, which is natural, we also advocate that each farmer, who lives out of it, pays the contributions of compulsory social insurance, but that the state expects them to pay in proportion, the proportion of the holdings they process and in proportion to the amount of income they have from agricultural activity. We've already discussed this with your predecessor in the past few months. The intention is to form a working group with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, including, of course, people from the tax administration. I would ask you together to find a new system that will mean an increase in income to the state, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, that these burdens on agricultural producers are tolerable and, in accordance with the principle of justice or justice, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance from 2004 should be amended. In the end, I would like to mention another expectation, another question about whose resolution we also want to be partners, and this issue concerns the adoption of a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. That's what I'm saying because Lazar Krstic, your previous one, and before him, Mladjan Dinkic, then finance minister, was headed by a task force that was supposed to draft a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. I assume that you will be at the head of this task force now, as according to the Ministry Act of the Ministry, your ministry is doing the tasks of the state administration relating to the arrangement of the original incomes of the AP Vojvodina and we consider it logical for you to be the head of that task force. We're willing to contribute to making that law that was supposed to be made six years ago. I hope we'll cooperate well on that as well. I wish you a lot of success in your new duty. You can always count on the People's MPs of the Grand Duchy of Hungarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7478	The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7479	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will speak today with two aspects, from the aspect of the minorities that I represent here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and from the aspect of sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. Before the government was formed in Serbia, there were 46 municipalities that were in a group of underdeveloped areas. So, before these floods, there were about 930,000 inhabitants who lived in underdeveloped areas and made in fact one of the most vulnerable populations in Serbia. After the May floods, we have one large part of our country where people have lost their entire assets, houses and everything they have, infrastructure and many jobs have been destroyed, so you will now have, in the next term, not only 46 underdeveloped municipalities and 930 thousand inhabitants below each level of existence, but much more than that. Therefore, given what you have done in the formation of this government, and I especially congratulate you on the fact that, after you have abolished the government's service for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, you have preserved this team, and I thank you for that, and I congratulate you on that. You have a well-developed team for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas that will help Serbia develop evenly. What do I want to say? What do I want to draw attention to? I want to point out, for practical reasons, the mistakes that people have made over the course of six years while I have run this service for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. In this period, 0.047% of the Republic of Serbia's budget for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas was allocated to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which means that less than half of Serbia's prominence was set aside for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. For people living in these areas, income is up to 15 times lower than the income of citizens in Belgrade and other developed cities and environments. Thanks to the good team, the good personal purpose and the cooperation of my colleagues in the government, we've done a lot with that little money. But in order for anything to happen, we need to look, not just with one, but with more aspects. For you personally, Mr. Minister, and for Mr. Dacic, who has been with me in the same government for six years, I would like to say that in this country at the same time that we were giving about 500m euros for non-intentional spending in Kosovo annually, at the same time for sustainable development from incentives in the Republic of Serbia in undeveloped areas, some 9,000 dinars per capita were donated, while in developed parts of Serbia were given 19,300 dinars per capita. It only led to a higher proportion, to make some even poorer and vice versa. Another very important piece of information. From 2005 to the March 16th election this year, from domestic and international funds, which were given to Serbia's development, only 3.15% were allocated for underdeveloped areas. It's what I draw your attention to as a minister, who I claim to be a serious man, that he's capable of dealing with these problems that we have. As you can see, I'm drawing your attention to a lot of important things. So we had 46 underdeveloped municipalities and we only gave 3.15% and domestic and international money for their development. I suggest that you, as minister, make a good programme, that in the rebalancing of the budget that certainly awaits us after what Mr Dacic said, those four new pillars of our future development, that you foresee much greater resources for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. I also suggest that the former two Tito funds that were for the development of the Republic and the provinces, we have made a proposal, this already exists with you in the Ministry, to form a fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, which would be the address, address and EU, and the World Bank and all other world institutions, which have the intended funds, the grants for the development of undeveloped ones, to pool funds there. Otherwise, I'm sure, no matter how much money they have, that they will be powerful, rich, from the richer parts, from the richer municipalities, take most of them, and that the poor will become even poorer. In that sense, I say you have knowledge, a great experience behind you. You come from a country where you learn practical knowledge. You have a good team to work with you on the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, but I ask you to provide for much more resources in the future budget than you were, when I was the minister in charge of the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas. What does it mean for the state of Serbia, as an undeveloped country of 46 undeveloped municipalities, not taking into account these municipalities affected by floods? Now we're sure to have 66 undeveloped municipalities instead of 46. And they've dropped the standard. It means for the Republic of Serbia's budget the same as for a liquid vessel, there are 46 small hatches where liquids go away all the time. If we 46 municipalities finance, let's say, from transfer funds, we can say that they live on welfare. Our proposal, my personal proposal, is that you, as minister, provide for much larger funds for undeveloped municipalities, to do infrastructure, start at 120 kW, a trafostation that is the basis for development, to other road and other infrastructures, thus creating conditions and a stimulating environment for foreign investment. If we do so, then we will be able to achieve our ideal, that of people, or municipalities that live on so-called. transfer funds, the recipient of social assistance, to get people who will live from their work in these municipalities, to make it possible for young people who have left these municipalities to return to their municipalities and to receive social aid from taxpayers. Why am I speaking taxpayers? As Minister of Finance, that's a key item for you. If we hire people, then we will best fight poverty and create conditions for the sustainable development of our country. Otherwise, we can't achieve the desired results. So please keep in mind the facts that I've been presenting, the figures, the figures that I've given both the zeros and the decimals, and that 0.047% are all data from our state budget, the data officially, from the Agency for Economic Registers, from the Export Encouraging Agency, and other official institutions, financial institutions in our country. I speak personally, I come from one of the most undeveloped regions in Serbia, from Sandzak, and I can tell you that in Tutina, a city that has good development potential, we currently cannot get, no newly built house can get a power connection. Why? Because there's no current. You must, Mr. Minister, provide for funds, to convince your colleagues, that those of the Ministry of Energy, too, predict 110 kW, stations, trans-stations, and to allow life to return to these environments, that the people who created factories, the business spaces, that they could join in. Know, even in Novi Pazar, considered the centre of Sandzak, the centre of the undeveloped region, there are no more opportunities for development there, not only of economy, but also of no possibility for the development of normal lives of people. So I suggest that you, with your colleagues, convince your colleagues to support you, and provide for much greater means of sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, and that these two Tito funds, which are still alive, which always exist, but only have five, six employees, join into one fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, and be some basis for the future development bank of Serbia. I wish you success in your work. The Sandzak Democratic Action Party will support your candidacy as finance minister. Make sure you're happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7480	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7481	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vujovic, the honourable fellow MPs, if I had to say one sentence on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I will say it immediately – the NS MPs will unanimously and sincerely support Mr. Vujovic as future finance minister. He'll tell you immediately on his own behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the NS something that I think is maximum honesty, and you'll see why I want to say it. During the staffing and forming of the government there was also around your name, and Vujovic comes from a monetary fund, from the World Bank, and Vujovic represents these interests, representing those interests, we MPs unfortunately, some media are heating up such claims in Serbia, we do not believe that. We, Mr Vujovicu, believe in you and believe that you have come to the government of the Republic of Serbia for patriotic reasons. Because at a time like this when those who know better the economy and finance better than I do say that we may be in a worse situation than in 1992 or 1993, the elderly remember that inflation or in the spring of 1999, when we are bombed into the government of the Republic of Serbia and work perhaps at this moment with the most important, dealing with the most important resort, which is finance, it can be a man who is a great patriot. Because of the attitude that I have now put forward, I seem to have the right, that although the Rules of Procedure do not allow you, and there will be time, if not before when the rebalancing was announced here in mid-September, let's assume some questions, some layers of citizens are thinking, and perhaps there was no opportunity to say it. So, personally, it bothers me, and there's such a cry for the public sector. Especially from some people of spoken so-called. those who say: We sustain you. I ask you a question, and I believe that you think like me – who supports one doctor who works for 70,000 and perhaps at this point in the emergency center has someone's heart in his hand. He is supported by his expertise, professionalism and humanity, no one else. Who supports one teacher who works for 40,000 or 45,000. She's not supported by anyone, she's supporting herself, by her professional work. So of these four strategic directions, namely the task that the Ministry of Finance will have and you, at the head of the ministry read by Mr Dacic, is said to be one -- a reduction in the budget deficit. Under two – gray economy, tax base, expansion and public enterprises efficiency and tax collection. This gray economy, people say, I understand that work on black and so forth. Can someone in this room tell me a public firm with extra employees and party employees and that should be told the truth. Is there a man who's employed in black? That's impossible. I can name you a lot of companies now. I'm not going to say it because one of the very strategic and externally politically important to us, and we know here that thousands of people are hiring through youth and student associations. If we have to keep quiet, keep quiet and say once that there are extra people in the public sector. If he has to fire himself to fire himself, but let me tell you in one small place, I don't think you, top economists, should I say, if you fire 50 people, whatever the employees are, 600 salaries less in that place, in the craft. That's something to think about. When I say and when we talk about the private sector, I don't mean 99.99% of people who torture and work to pay taxes to both the state and their workers, and so do they. I think of some few hundred who, despite this accident and this flood, were able to save face and get forgiveness from many sins, because don't forget Mr Vujovic, Serbia knows that most of them have acquired that capital. It may have been legal and legitimate, but it wasn't fair. There's no fair in law, and he's legally legitimate and legal. I was going to tell you honestly that for them 100 million euros is not the problem at all. We've been going around the world, and our athletes, some of us, to beg our leaders and other countries, I'd like to see that list, and it seems to me that the prime minister said that this list would come out today, to see how much someone gave it. When I formed the government, I only suggested to the prime minister, and I suggest you initiate a law that would define non-payment of personal income as a criminal offence. You know, someone who worked for a month and didn't pay personal income at the end of the month, so that's the attack on his children, on his family, I think in many countries there are such or similar laws. Further what ordinary people and the world would like to know, maybe it's not in your vault, and it seems to me it's all connected to the economy. Every year at this time, Mr. Vujovicu, as far as the protests of people, peasants, farmers, the top theme of raspberries. Can you or someone once tell the truth about it? Why do people claim every year that they get a euro and a half, and someone takes four and a half. Not to list whose wife from the biggest reformer in the history of the country and the world, and whether that firm, and whether it's true, is even to tell people honestly once, but to stand behind it, it's not true to export raspberries at four and a half euros, and this is where the euro and a half are paid. I think the state should understand that it's not just a matter of the market, but that it's a matter of inherited some political-economic relationship and monopoly, not to say, mafia. What Mr. Dacic said here as priorities in your work, I don't know if you'll be able to do it because of the Rules of Procedure, but I mean, looking at you these three months, your professionality and your seriousness, I believe you'll be as successful as you can in this situation. So, they want citizens to accept heavy hearts and pay cuts and pensions, but they have to have a firm guarantee, that in two years, their children will be better off, that their children will have a chance, that children with colleges will ask Verbic here, at 9.60, in two years, will take 12,000, Mr. Minister, can't even give them a degree. Some more schools and colleges, these days, have two million euros in bills. It means they charge more than they need tuition. For me it's a public company that has more, it needs to disband the directors all of a sudden. The public company serves me, it is a public enterprise of Serbian citizens, owned by the people. If the public company has surpluses and surpluses, then let the service charge the citizens. That's how I look, and I'm sorry if I'm wrong. I don't want to go any further, that's the deal. I wish you success in your work, at the NS Parliament Club you will have as many honest partners as there are, we will support you, but in the coming months, at the sessions in your statements, that guarantee to the citizens of Serbia, which means, yes, for two years we will be tortured, because people remember for years only reforms and platforms, and since Milka Planinc. Reform – platform, reform – platform, and life is burning. For some, he spends his life in reforms and platforms. So, we believe in you, believe in us MPs, believe in the citizens of Serbia, and I believe that most of them will understand the situation our country is in and understand the words that the prime minister said yesterday, yes, for two years we will have to torture ourselves openly, but to look at the torment and pain and suffering that will follow for the financial, home budgets, to distribute it a little bit. It seems to me that so far it's gone to the people, to work and to the peasants. Let's get a little bit where we can see how they are, and we know how they earned it, don't lie to ourselves, you'll have more support than the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. Once again on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I wish you successful work in the coming period as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7482	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7483	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister Vujovicu, I would like to say at the beginning that the JS parliamentary club will support Prime Minister Vukic's proposal to elect Mr. Vujovic as finance minister. What defined us as taking a stand, that we would support the proposal to make Mr Vujovic a finance minister. In the right place, looking at his biography, work and life, we see that there is a man who has a rich working experience behind him, and before that, one very important fact should not be ignored, and that is that Mr Vujovic graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade as the best student in the generation. Many recognized it, the World Bank people recognized it when, over many years, they took it as a co-worker, as head of many working groups, where it was sent to several parts of Europe and the world, to be a representative of the World Bank. It also defined what he was in this short period, according to the JS parliamentary group, a very successful economy minister, and we are pleased to see him as finance minister, because we must recognise a narrow link between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. If Serbia doesn't have a strong economy, it won't have enough money to fill the budget, which means the finance ministry would be in trouble as well. On the other hand, I am sure that Mr Vujovic, as future finance minister, will make a recommendation, opinion, a proposal for a new candidate for the economy minister, which we will choose over a certain period of time, I hope very short and that they will work closely together, all in order to help the fallen Serbian economy and consolidate the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We from JS will not say anything new if we say that Serbia's finances and budget are in a very difficult position. I read today that Serbia's debt is around 63% of GDP. I hope that the measures that Mr Vujovic will take and propose as finance minister will contribute, in the next period of time, very briefly, to reduce this percentage gradually and, as Prime Minister Vučić said, that in a year or two, Serbia will finally feel the improvement of the work of this government, and thus improve the work of the Ministry of Finance, headed by Mr Vujovic. I will not take the opportunity to talk now about all the problems that Serbia is in and when it comes to tax collection, non-payments and a hint of income cuts in the public sector, such as salaries and pensions. Mr Vujovic, if I may and may give myself the right, I would suggest and advise you, that when you make a proposal and the government comes out with a proposal to cut wages and pensions, to make sure that it is not the same to cut 10% of pensions and wages to whoever has 20,000 dinars and to whoever has 120,000 dinars. There's a criterion to be found, because for someone who receives 20,000 dinars if he is taken from 2,000 dinars, it's more than someone who receives 80,000 and 100,000 dinars to take from him 20,000 dinars. This should be taken into account when proposals are made and we from the Single Serbia will support all of your proposals aimed at protecting socially endangered residents in the Republic of Serbia, to allow measures by the finance ministry to come even more foreign, but such opportunities also to domestic investors who want to create new facilities, facilities, etc. And to create the possibility that as much and as quickly as possible young and educated, and at this point unemployed people, who are waiting for that piece of bread called "for profit" so that they can form their families, that they can live off their work and that they can have children tomorrow. It should not be forgotten, Mr. Minister Vujovic, future finance minister, that we must finally stand in the way of dying Serbia. Unique Serbia has repeatedly advocated this, and for years we have been pushing for it, unfortunately, we have so far not had the full support of all relevant factors in this society. Let's figure it out once, if we keep this up, the Serbs in their own country will be a national minority in 50 or I don't know how many years. Let's not let the state die, let's make it possible for children to be born as much as possible, through the Ministry of Finance, through the Ministry of Social Labour and Social Affairs, etc., by government and through all relevant factors, political state, social in the Republic of Serbia, to stop and root out the white plague in the Republic of Serbia. If we have that in mind, conditions will be created to make better work in Serbia, to make better money, to be able to live away from its work. Mr Vujovicu, once again, I say to you, keep in mind that for all the measures that go for the benefit of better living in the Republic of Serbia, you will have the support of the Single Serbia Parliament Club and all members of the Single Serbia, and today we will cast our votes for your election at the head of the finance ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7484	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7485	Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Dacic, Mr. Vujovic, the honourable MPs, the citizens of Serbia who follow this work of the Assembly, we have heard a lot of commendable words about Mr. Vujovic, I think that the man of this respectable knowledge, I would say the optimal life experience, is a little bit uncomfortable, but also binding. It is good to hear in this assembly and nice words about someone, a team before, Mr Dacic said in his opening statement that from 2000 on here, Mr Vujovic has been a proposal for different political options. What brought them together, I suppose, is his expertise. I think that's also the key reason for his appointment today as finance minister. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Vujovic, a few suggestions. You will be headed by the Ministry of Finance, the key ministry. This ministry permeates all other ministries, with no money, no money flow management, one state doesn't work. Your co-operation with the Minister of Economy will be particularly important. I hope that you will take some measures in the first of those covers regarding, say, repairing that legislative environment. You're well aware that the Business Society Act was brought in relatively quickly, I would say hasty. People didn't even escort him out enough, there were some strange things in sight, just some key functions in companies, in corporations, in business entities they were abolished, mixed up, so let's say the management function that is very important is the key one equal to the supervisory function for which we know very well what it means. I think it'd be good to do some work here. The next law that is important for creating an ambience for normal functioning of economic operators is the Public Procurement Act. We've had a year of experience, and I think it's time to approach some repairs, conditioned by repairs, but I'd rather not be people, with all the respect from the ministries, to include people from the economy, to include people from public enterprises, to hear practical remarks about where they're tight throats in that law, which is what keeps us from going to the end. At the same time, the Law on Public Enterprises, I think it deserves to be done. I will not be taken by the honourable MP Markicevic for evil, but I will say, he said that public companies that have excess income or profits should be disbanded because that is not the point of their functioning, no. Public enterprises need to differentiate, we need to know what public enterprises are necessary to the state of Serbia, but at the same time what are public companies active market participants? Public enterprises must be differentiated. We need to know what public enterprises are necessary to the state of Serbia, but at the same time, what are public enterprises that are active market participants? Companies that are active market participants must absolutely meet the conditions of profitability, to earn profits, to grow, to develop, to invest. So, in this context, I'm interested in, let's say, have you thought about calling, speaking practically, very usefully, the director of public enterprises and asking them – gentlemen, we have business results in six months, let me see who worked, how profitable was who, and how much next year he's going to pay in the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Let him convert that number, behind that number, it's not much, this is not how I speak abstractly, but this is crucial, let's see how much the director is guaranteeing that next year he's going to invest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's a very important thing to me. At the same time, customs and the IRS are in your jurisdiction. Let's see what Customs does. What's the IRS doing? There are revenues that need to complete the other revenue side of the budget that I specifically point to and there is the key. Of course this other spending side is important, but here and some well-paid accountants can give us solutions. Okay, they record, they don't create value, but here, on this income side, there's everything. I'm interested in how much in these first steps you can see that, recently, Prime Minister Vukic has told me he expects some 100m euros from public enterprises. I'm wondering, have you thought about that subject, I suppose it is and will you do it practically? As for the company in restructuring, you've done some of the work here, we expect you to work actively with the Minister of Business and bring this business to an end. What can come out of the economic zone of the twilight of the economy, let it come out, what can't come out, and that's crucial, and that job, and that job, another suggestion of course, well-meaning, we have to do it in a way that we treat each of these companies individually or you're in that law when you explain and state it. They're specific, they require a lot of effort, I agree, a lot of energy, a lot of effort, but if that effort is put into it, I think we can save something from it. What I would particularly point out is that it's an engagement on that revenue side. It's already bid here with a cut in wages and pensions. We don't need to prejudge things, it demobilizes us, let's do everything we can on this income thing first. We say, we fix fiscal discipline, we tighten it, Customs is good, it charges, nothing goes through it, the IRS works fantasticly, we charge everything, we expand the circle of taxpayers, we lower rates, we do some key things. When we do all that and we figure out that deficit that got in the way above us, goes up or doesn't go, reduces it, then we can talk about all the other things. Then we can talk about justice, about justice, about how to transfer that burden. I think it's a story for the next two or three months. Let's try to do this job in this period, I repeat, you and future economy minister have the most difficult task. As for the PUPS parliamentary group, we will vote for your election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7486	The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7487	Thank you. Honored Parliament Speaker, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vujovic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has proposed you as the new finance minister. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, we will be happy to vote for you. Why? You have a very impressive biography. Although it is emphasized here, I want to stress it again, because in Serbia many values are being hidden. You've been a student for generations, you've mastered and doctored in time. Then, you had post-doctoral studies at the California Institute in Berkeley, U.S.A., you worked at the World Bank, you worked in many institutions, you're a college professor. These values should be constantly highlighted because such knowledge as you have is necessary in Serbia in this portfolio where very big problems have been inherited. I know you have hard work to do. So far, the consumption model has been used, only consumption, no creation, and this has been spent on the expense of future generations. It's got to stop sometime. In this area, financial reform is necessary and be assured that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will give full support to the measures you will propose. You have already been given suggestions, to make sure that those who have the least are least taken from them. We are aware of the fact that it must be taken, that reform procedures must be submitted. We can't do better today or tomorrow if we don't get a little worse today, because it's been spent more than it's earned. This difficult inherited situation I think that you will be able to carry out with your own measures, proposals, with full support and this parliament really to clean up Serbia's finances which are really in a very difficult situation. You've been part of a government so far, a government that's reformal, which marks the first 100 days these days. In all these real estimates, this government deserves the highest grade. I believe that by your work, as well as the new Minister of Economy, you will contribute to the most difficult area, this is the area of economy and finance, by reform procedures. It's one process. We know it won't be easy, we know that the victims will be sought, but those victims we're willing to endure today, so we'll be better off tomorrow. The model we've had so far, as you know, hasn't produced any results. A new model must be sought, and this new model is very simple sometimes - to spend only what is earned and finally to realize that the state is obliged to give the framework, and citizens by their work, by pawning and only by work can create new conditions. When new values are created, then we can talk about distribution. As the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we insist that this distribution be fair, which means not that they always win, as it has been so far, those who have the most, and those who have little, have even less. I hope that what you've done so far and that you've had experience in many transition countries where you've been, you'll suggest such models that will give us a way out of this situation. Reform laws adopted provide a good basis, provide a good basis for moving forward. They give the foundation that can be done in a way that creates a new value. Serbia needs to be hired and this is a message from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia -- that employment, employment of young people, creating conditions to create new values, and when we create new values, we will be able to share. By supporting you and the government as a team, we expect that reforms will continue and that not so quickly we will have one orderly, European Serbia, because Serbia's European future is unmistakable, one organised Serbia where we will know how to proceed. In that regard, except that I wish you success in your work, I wish you much happiness. Not a little bit, even a little bit more luck, because you're in one of the hardest areas. To get out of all this, be assured that you will have our support as well. In addition to the government's reform capacities, I must stress that the SDPS parliamentary group, and I am sure the entire parliament, which also has very large reform capacities, will provide full support. I wish you success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7488	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7489	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and the Public Works of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today we choose the finance minister as the most important figure in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's where the Prime Minister was supposed to be today. Okay, he's being replaced by the First Deputy Prime Minister. At this point, we do not have a transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the second program, which should be transmitted, there's something about the World War I marking, which is just fine. However, the First Programme goes to "Contemporary Spy". Is "Contemporary spy" a show or a movie, I'm not sure, more important than the election of a finance minister? President of the Assembly, I ask you to interrupt the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see what is going on, what is the programme presented by the first Deputy Prime Minister, what have they to say about representatives of the parliamentary groups, above all about the situation in which Serbia and what is waiting for them, the reduction of salaries and pensions, which is inevitable to hear, not to do it in the morning, and that there is no transfer, so I ask you to stop the meeting until the public is provided in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7490	Thank you, MP. I didn't mean to interrupt the previous speaker. I was informed that there would be a delayed transfer, as is usually the case here in parliament, because we also had a water polo game in the past, we had different sports competitions and we had UN transfers, when we were addressed by the former president of the state, so we interrupted very often transfers not only in this conference but also in the previous councils. You have to admit that continuity exists. It doesn't matter if I quote examples from a long or near past when we've had the same cases. I don't dispute your sentences, it's a very important topic, as is all Parliament meetings. I would not make the difference between the parliamentary session, which is more important, and what is slightly less important to the citizens of Serbia. I also believe that this occasion, which has led to the end of the direct transmission, marked by the central celebration of the celebration of 100 years since the start of the First World War in Belgium, when the first battle of the First World War was launched, will be attended by 50 top officials and presidents from all over the world, very important to the citizens of Serbia, and will be informed of everything, because immediately after the ceremony is over, the delayed transfer will go. It's your right to ask for a vote. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7491	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Vice-President, former and future ministers, fellow MPs, just to look at the fact that in the debate on media laws, we heard that the delayed transfer was a kind of censorship during the Boris Tadic regime, so I don't know why today is not censorship, but the need for citizens to be informed, especially today when the Serbian Parliament is paying RTS TV from its budget. I think it's inadmissible for them to ignore what's going on here and play some sides of the show on their first program,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7492	Ambassador, don't misinformed the citizens. We don't ignore it. It's gonna be a transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7493	We're being ignored by RTS, you're not ignoring anyone. We're being ignored by the RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7494	No, he's not ignoring us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7495	Unfortunately, today we were also expelled by the Prime Minister. It is not at the debate in the election of a new minister, perhaps the most important minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, especially at the moment we are at which the Prime Minister himself said that we have a bankruptcy waiting for us in the next six months, and at the time that he is not present here, when we choose a new finance minister, I do not think it is responsible. Also, the fact is that we have only a biography of candidates in front of us, which I have to say impressive and probably there are probably no more than five people in Serbia who, with this kind of biography, could come to qualifications as finance minister. But that résumé isn't enough in itself. We have 100 days to work Mr. Vujovic in this government. After those hundred days, we can't give any credit for his work. He came here to parliament last week when we passed privatisation laws, bankruptcy, we conducted a quality debate, we disagreed on something, we did something, but all this does not give us confidence that he will be able to deal with the problems that Serbia is in. No, because he is not professional or quality enough, but in order to do so, what needs to be done in Serbia, the support of the entire government, prime ministers and all ministers and all parties supporting the government and a series of opposition will give him their contribution. I want to say a few things about it, about whether Serbia is in front of bankruptcy today, or not. Since the parties that make up the government today formed the government just over two years ago, we have today the third finance minister in two years, and very soon we will have the fourth economy minister, for the same two years. From day one, the story is that Serbia is in front of bankruptcy. From July 2012, to this day, Serbia is constantly said to be in front of bankruptcy and is constantly the reason for bankruptcy, somewhere in the past, in something other government has done. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Right. That's right, here's a colleague, right. So let's see what this government has done, and what this government has done, and I don't know if we're going to choose Mr. Vujovic today, and I suppose we're going to be elected, whether we're going to count on this new government, because when you choose in a situation where the country is facing the bankruptcy of the new finance minister, it's very easy to say that you've practically got a new government, and if you've changed a minister, or he's just changed the chair, because he's been in this government before in the last hundred days. So, the public debt in 2010 was 44%, in 2011 48%, in 2012, at the end of 60%, in 2013 63%. It's 65% today, and projections say it'll be over 70%. Here are the comparisons in four years, the previous and these governments. Growth of gross national product in 2010 1%, in 2011 1.6%, in 2012, -1.5%, in 2013 2.7% growth, this year 0.5% growth, if unfortunately there is. Foreign investment in 2010 1.3 billion, 2011 1.83 billion, 2012 230 million, 2013 770 million, 2014, failed to find credible data, I read somewhere that the National Bank projection is 550 million for the first six months, I'm not sure, since I've seen some other data, but here's the one I've seen. It would be wonderful if we had at the end of the year at least one billion, as we had in the previous two years of this government. Now that the first vice president has come and proposed a candidate for minister, the first point is to reduce the budget deficit as the task of the new finance minister. The projection is that the deficit will be record in Europe 8.3%, record in Europe. So, 2.6 or 2.3 billion euros in this year will be the deficit of the Republic of Serbia and is not the reason why the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, or Vojislav Kostunica, but the Government of Ivica Dacic and the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, in the last two years. Two years is long enough for something to change in the economy, if it wasn't right. I'm waiting to hear from your coalition partners who were in the government in 2008, how and why there was an increase in pensions in October 2008 and I can't hear anything say, to explain what happened. In 2008, at the beginning of the year, pensions fell below 50%, from the average salary. At the end of 2007, 49%, at the beginning, fell to 40%. Then, in October, a regular pension adjustment was made at the beginning of 4.3% and an extraordinary 10% alignment. That helped bring the average pension back to 55% of the average salary, as much as it is today. I'm asking you, if that wasn't done then, would the average pension today be 23,600 dinars, or would be 15,000 dinars, and how many pensioners would survive today if it hadn't been done in 2008? Is anyone going to say anything about whether it was irrational, whether it was illegal, whether it was pre-election time, October 2008? The election was over in May. No pre-election time was there, it was a social concern about the most vulnerable citizens of Serbia. No crime, no irresponsibility. Now we have a pension to have an 8.3% deficit. In this situation, there are two answers, you can raise gross national income, keep pensions and other expenditures in the budget at the same level, and you can reduce pensions, and you can reduce public sector wages in two ways, by reducing wages and firing. That's two sources. Can this government, within a short time, raise gross national income? Well, he can't. As of last year of 2.7%, it will be for any economist or anyone who little follows you to say that it is all due to the "Fiyata", but it was in 2013, when the production of "Fiyata" started and when it entered our gross national product. No new investments, no where to grow a gross national product. Without that, there's no deal with the IMF. No deal with the IMF, no credit, even if not favourable loans. The public is calmed down that money has finally arrived from the Emirates and there will be money by the end of the year. Nice. That's another five months. What do we do since New Year's? Where are we gonna find new money? The President of the World Bank says no. We thought we'd give it to you, but because of your projections, there are no 300 million loans, you need to make a deal with the IMF. So how's the heart of the IMF people? What do you think? What will they come and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reach an agreement? We expected that today we would have someone to talk to about these things with, I don't know if the first vice president is the right person, today in one tabloid, his government called him a champion of borrowing, they say he owed us 99.28 euros per second. I don't know if his presence here is an announcement of continuity, or if something's going to shrink. How will the budget deficit be reduced? Grey economy? So what was the problem with doing something in the fight against the gray economy in these two years? What has the opposition done in these two years to prevent the government of the Republic of Serbia from fighting the gray economy? And why is that a subject today? Why is that always a subject? When there's a new economy minister's election, will we listen again to stories about fighting the gray economy and everything that hasn't been done in these two years or in these 100 days? This government has worked most on self-relating itself in the last 100 days. We've been listening to all the media in the last two, three days to mark 100 days as everything has been done. Everything from the exposé, which we're going to hold as a drunk float, is done. We've read the exposés. Of the 16 laws in the first 100 days, eight were adopted here. No law on planning and construction, foreign investment law, law on public enterprises, law on payment classes, law on registering users of public funds and their employees and employees, law on civil servants, law on insurance, mortgage law has been adopted. Read the exposés. We did it. Eight laws is not, and eight is. Don't talk 100%. Say 50%. Say, we couldn't, there were some problems. These serious laws take more than 100 days. That's what we said when the exposé was adopted. There's no need to deceive the public here. Today, I don't want to scare the citizens, 14% is out of the budget for pensions. It is sustainable for a country with an economy like Serbia's 10%. For public sector salaries, 11% of employees working in the state administration are set aside from the budget and 8% is sustainable. So in order for this to be introduced to the extent that it is sustainable for the Republic of Serbia, pensions should be less than 35% and pay roughly the same. I don't think that's sustainable. That's what Serbian citizens can't survive. The only thing I have left is to believe that Mr Vujovic, based on his experience and knowledge, will undoubtedly find solutions, creative, something new that we have not yet had the opportunity to hear in Serbia and that he will realize everything he wants or at least we can only have in terms of what he wants, because unfortunately, because of the Rules of Procedure and everything we couldn't hear specifically about his measures that exist. As the first vice president told us, Mr Vujovic met him and the prime minister with the measures he wants... Unfortunately, we haven't heard any of these measures. We'll probably hear it when there's a rebalancing, which was also promised in the first 100 days, but I understand that the flood could not have been done, because it was necessary to calculate because of the flood damage and we don't blame the government. Once again, he does not give confidence that the Prime Minister is not here, because he must be assured that these difficult measures will be implemented, not Mr Dacic, because he has led the government for almost two years and none of them have been done. For that reason, we cannot support this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7496	MP Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7497	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are some things out here that are quite casual, because say – the Prime Minister ignores the National Assembly is an extremely unserious statement. I will remind both you and the Serbian public and the previous speaker that the Prime Minister with the entire cabinet was present three days ago at the National Assembly. There were more ministers than there were MPs from the opposition. So much for respect. Then who does he respect? He answered all the questions he was asked. Today, the Prime Minister is in talks with a major global company, as a citizen of this country, not as someone who deals with politics, asking God for talks with Esmark to succeed, thus resolving the question of thousands of workers working in Sartide, to resolve the fate and question of a great city like Smederevo. I wish we could have heard someone from the opposition come and say, "Here, we have a proposal for "Sartid," and we will bring people. But no. In our public, there is that part of irresponsible people who are involved in politics, who are praying to God for something to fail, that there is only something bad about earning some petty ordinary political points. I think it's irresponsible treatment and irresponsible behavior. As far as investment is concerned, it's bad to give in to other people's feathers, especially if those feathers aren't very nice colors. In 2011, of these billions of foreign investments, which were put in place, the replica is, on the control of the former government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7498	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7499	... is in fact the sale of Miskovic's "Maxie". Is that a direct foreign investment? No, it's not. It's just a change of ownership in a private company.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7500	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7501	Thank you, Your Honor. I am advocating Article 107 of Parliament's dignity because it is really not nice to insult the citizens of Serbia and, at all, Parliament by providing untrue information about the economic situation in the country, because, you know, the one that has provided such a business system where you have had one “Agrobank”, “The Vojvodine Development Bank”, where you could take a loan and never return it without any guarantee, those who have allowed foreign banks to control our financial transactions, and I will remind you of the 55 billion-euro data that have been taken out of the country during their rule, is the best indicator that chaos in the country has left us, and these today amounts of such shameful data and insult the entire parliament and insult the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7502	Sir, you know very well that I cannot enter as chairman and influence the truthfulness of the presentation of certain MPs. That's allowed under the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to state whether you want the Parliament to declare it on Voting Day? You don't want to. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7503	The President of the National Assembly, that is, the chairman of the National Assembly, shall be appointed to the session. The previous speaker said I offended Serbian citizens. I don't know by which member of the Rules of Procedure the insult of Serbian citizens exists. I don't know where anyone's offended when I'm taking out the data I found on the finance ministry website. Please stop misusing the Rules of Procedure in the same way. There is always someone's address in parliament as an insult just because it's critical of the results of the government's work and then being abused and used as a right to replication. We don't do that here. In no way have we abused the Rules of Procedure and I pray both you and all the other chair to literally comply with the Rules of Procedure and to end this practice to use the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but to report for replicas. If you do not provide it, then we too will engage and move on to do so, and we feel that he is not useful for the congregation’s discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7504	Mr. Djurishic, you heard I didn't think you'd hurt the Rules of Procedure. Also, for you to say that it is again the right of every MP to express his vision in his own way. So I can't influence. I only agree with you that the institution should not be used for replication by the Rules of Procedure. That's exactly where I agree with you. I ask all MPs when it comes to harming the Rules of Procedure to use that institution only for those purposes. Do you want us to make a statement in voter's day? (Yes) In the voting day, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7505	Dear Chairman, Article 27. You injured Article 27, but also members 105, 106, because you allowed Mr Djukanovic to speak using the right to harm the Rules of Procedure to replicate Mr Đurisic, although he had previously replicated him on behalf of the parliamentary group MP Babic, the head of parliament. So, I don't know if it was convincing enough and whether Mr. Djukanovic should have strengthened that conviction, but I don't think you should have an unequal relationship with the position and opposition. If Mr. Babic runs out of time for the replica, you need to interrupt him, and if Mr. Djukanovic is not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, he is replicating Mr. Djurisic, you need to stop him. As long as you don't do that, we'll use every opportunity to get into the same position.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7506	Mr. Veseinovic, the problem is that I cannot go ahead and know what anyone will do in his advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I agree with you that you need to warn and break if someone doesn't stick to the Rules of Procedure. I really apologize for the overstep of four, five seconds Babic had past the established Rules of Procedure and for not warning him in time, but well, I don't think that's such a problem. I don't think I'm gonna let anyone do that, but I don't want to interrupt anyone in two minutes if a man wants to finish his word. I accept that kind of criticism to push every single one of them here for two minutes, and I have a key and I can rule it out, but I don't think we've come to that time that someone, like, ten seconds over, is the problem. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7507	I'm advocating Article 103, 104 because we have a flagrant abuse of the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, just the fellow concerned. I don't know why they're so in pain with the truth, but obviously if you're already talking about some economy, you need to know what the consequences were, and your business system where you could borrow credit that you want to obviously hurt a lot of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7508	Don't stop anyone now and don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Who's next to the word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7509	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, a respected colleague, is now 19 years from Operation Storm, the Croatian Army in 1995. I think maybe as a parliament we could at least a minute of silence start this session, but well, it's not the first time this country has failed to mark one of our tragedies. I must say that today we should choose a new finance minister, Mr. Vujovic is a man of impressive biography. I must say, although there remains a rather vague situation in which he, a man who has knowledge of professionally and truly brilliant biography, leaves the post of Minister of Industry and goes to the post of Minister of Finance. You know Mr. Vujovic how you were elected Minister of Business. You were followed by superlatives both in the press and by the Prime Minister himself. I ask you, what will happen now to the Ministry of Industry when you leave? Especially since you didn't tell us what happened to that Ethyhad contract? I'm asking you to try this thing somehow now that you're leaving that place to clear up to the citizens and to our MPs as their representatives here in the Assembly. We have the highest or we will soon have the highest deficit budget in Europe. I'm asking you how do you think you can reduce that deficit, by what specific measures? How are you going to raise the revenue side of the budget, is it only through the reduction of wages and pensions announced, which you said would not be, quote, not a penny more than 10%? Are you staying on that claim that there will be no pay and pension cuts more than 10%? So that's what I'm interested in. I can't say that you're taking over from Mr. Krstic's finance ministry in the situation, as we heard, where public debt goes to 70% of GDP, that the duty at a time when Mr. Vukic, this is his third government, runs this government is already six billion euros. I have to say that unfortunately we have more pensioners than employees, that we have a rise in unemployment in Serbia, that VAT is increased to 22%, insurance is mandatory for vehicles to 45%. Now, here's a quick question for you, how do you comment that people in one cartel way have moved from the insurance community and raised mandatory insurance for vehicles 45%? That's what we asked last time, no one alive gives us an answer. Can they really do it on their own like they want and does the National Bank do anything about it? Real pensions and wages are already down by more than 6%, the flat tax has been raised by at least 45%, the property tax from 50% to 200%, the low level of state revenue collection is getting lower throughout this period, and during Minister Krstic, you of course must have awareness of what you are entering. I want to know how you think you can raise that revenue side. I've already asked you that. We also have a situation that is extremely low, perhaps the lowest level of foreign investment in Serbia today. If you're the finance minister and you have to cut the deficit, and in the beginning you know you're not ready to charge more taxes, since you've already put an almost maximum on that kind of thing, reform the IRS. That's what all your predecessors have been trying to do, and I have to say that today we're choosing the third finance minister, in two years we've changed three economy ministers and three agriculture ministers, I've said that many times. How do you plan to deal with the gray economy? The only option you have left is to cut the expenditure, and since we look at the process daily and it's announced by the Prime Minister, where I think it may be unnecessary to go to such small things to talk about how much it's been saved by organized going to a meeting in Nis. It could only be taken, say, half of Mr. Bayatovic's salary and that would be settled. The expenditure of the consolidated budget, which is aside from Serbia's budget, also the budgets of local self-government, the AP Vojvodina and the PIO-RFZO Mandatory Insurance Fund are around 1.7 billion dinars. It's mostly expenditure on salaries and pensions, about 55%. When other social security expenditures are added, we come to the bill that almost 70% of the budget is directly transferred to the population. There's still 30% of the budget left for other purposes. Of the rest of that, most of the expenditure is for the purchase of goods and services, about 14%, which is actually the State's material costs. These expenditures were reduced several times in the previous period, that's correct, and they reached a record low level. However, further reduction of these expenditures is possible, but then I really think that ministers can work from home and there's no need to go out, because it seems to me that the Prime Minister has made you quite skillfully, precisely, comprehensively all 17 of you, i.e. Executive Secretary, while we have the Chancellor. We have an Chancellor who wants to apply "tacherism" in Serbia. The share of subsidies in the total expenditures of the country is very low. This year, it's only about 4.8% compared to 8.5% in 2006. This should be added to so-called. budget loans which are also subsidies, especially when given to certain enterprises, e.g. "Sartidu", and the state knows they won't repay that loan. They're still about 1.5% of total expenditure. Overall, there is room for a reduction in subsidies, but it is relatively small. I want to know how you think you're solving this problem, except to put people on the street and put the key in the lock. We have capital expenditures that are only 4% of total expenditure and are constantly falling during all these governments. Only two years earlier than today, so in 2012, capital expenditures had twice as much participation in total expenditure. I think the finance minister realized that only by reducing large spending items could he meet his goal, to reduce the deficit without reforming anything in the fiscal system. That's my opinion. Maybe I'm wrong, you'll explain it to us, but I think you've reached out to what's most simple, which is that you're not primarily trying to really reduce what the state is spending, but you've reached out to cut wages and pensions and not fire party people from public enterprises, who are essentially making that deficit. I'm also interested in a few things that I'm going to try to ask you as a man who, if by most, will soon be fully controlled by this country's finances. I know that you know that we have this constant controversy that the Prime Minister also spoke about on one television yesterday, which is the problem "Er Serbia", i.e. unknown details regarding this arrangement. You know that this arrangement is quite tied to the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I think you should know, and if you don't know, here, I'm going to ask you -- exactly how much was paid for the arrangement with "Er Serbia" so-called "Er Serbia". legal costs and is it true that another two million for legal services has been added to a 40m-euro loan in a magical way? Two million euros for legal services! I want to know what you, as future finance minister, think about when your predecessor, I assume, with the professional assistance and support of Prime Minister Vukic, and Mr Sinisha Maloko, who was not yet mayor, let us pay two million euros added to the legal costs for the arrangement with Er Serbia. My question is, which law firm, on the basis of which procedure, which tender, and what exactly did we pay with these additional two million euros that were projected in the budget? Does the Prime Minister know about this? I don't think he knows. But when he hears about this, I don't think he's gonna like it, 'cause I know he probably wouldn't let that happen. Could it be suspected that such arrangements represent a certain type of commission for certain people, related to the Er Serbia arrangement, Etihad, JAT etc? I'm also interested in how much the total costs of the JAT restructuring, the projected'stelt', are. With the company's invisible restructuring program, Serbia's participation in 46% of the cost, how much money is it? The remaining 54%, to what extent are the percentages, and how much is the money falling on the burden of Ethyhad, and how much on "Er Serbia"? Is it true that part of the subsidies for "Er Serbia" also goes to the burden of NIS? At what price will "Er Serbia" pour fuel at NIS? What is the attitude of Russian partners on this matter? That's what Mr. Dacic might say. Does the subsidies based on the reduction in fuel prices fall solely on the burden of the Republic of Serbia, as an NIS shareholder, or on the burden of NIS, as a shareholder society? So do they just fall on us or fall on NIS as a stock company? What is the financial effect of the subsidies that "Er Serbia" receives on this basis? The next issue concerns the existence or absence of certain arrangements related to Serbia's Elektroprivreda. We heard the Prime Minister talking today about an important strategic agreement, if I understand it correctly, and I certainly support it, even though I could say here now - whether someone was afraid to come before the MPs, but I won't do it. I also have to say that it appears that the EPS has signed a fully secret memorandum worth half a billion euros for the purchase of new electronic numbers with the company "Apelex" from Abu Dhabi. Is that true and do you have any knowledge of it, since the Prime Minister said it didn't exist last night? We have information from BIRN, which conveys high sources from the EPS, that this happened and that "Apelex-Amplex" should get a job on the principle of "key in hand" to manage the project, get numbers and hire subcontractors. The problem, of course, is that we practically sign a contract with a firm that will be an intermediary in the purchase of a number of 500m euros. So, since we know that the Assembly has ratified a roof agreement on co-operation between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates government, as well as three agreements on the avoidance of double taxation, etc., is this a direct consequence of what we have ratified as the Assembly? Instead of me reading to you parts of your biography as some of my previous colleagues, as if you didn't know them, I thought it might be useful as a future finance minister to have in mind what's going on broadly in one sector and how it falls into your portfolio, because you will, in the end, be able to either continue or allow, or you will cut them off. I have to ask you about one big problem you're familiar with, which is RTB Bor. Namely, RTV Bor, you know that on July 17th, Prime Minister Vukic said another 60m euros will be provided for the completion of a modern-day smelt project in Bor. You are aware of this and we will have to pay for it, said the prime minister in Bora, another 60m euros. So, I'm interested, given that we had a 2010 contract under the "key in hand" system and that according to the contract, the price was 175m euros, the citizens should have already received a finished solvent shop in Bora, completely completed. This was in 2010, and the contract was otherwise signed with the Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin in June 2010, and the contract envisions that the smelter is made by the system "key in hand" for 175 and ends in 36 months. This is, of course, signed under the auspices of the inevitable Mr Dinkic. The construction money was secured from a loan from the Canadian export bank of EDC of 135m, while Serbian citizens gave 40m euros. So, when it's all added up, a 36-month deadline broke out in 2013, and there's still no smelting in Bora. Of course, this, as the prime minister said, depends on Mr. Spaskovski's survival at the head of RTB Bor. I do not understand the government's statement, which said on 8 February 2014, that it approved an additional debt to RTB Bor of 131m euros for the reconstruction of the Copper Topionica and the construction of the factory, which increased the value of the project to about 301m euros. That's what the public means of information was, by the way. "If that deadline is not respected, Mr Spaskovski and his team will suffer the consequences, the deadlines will no longer be moved," Mr Vukic, prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, told the new smelter on March 5th 2014. Here, that's what he said. The deadlines have been broken, more payments have been paid and additional payments have been announced to Serbian citizens for a smelter that is not available. Answer us, where is there any financial, economic, any logic to this kind of thing, and why is that done? What is the price of political support for party employment in the election campaign of over 500 employees in RTB Bor, telegrams of support for love related to the Labour Act? So, in short, I gave you consciously and deliberately three major problems, as we see them, with a desire to hear your review, because to this day you are Minister of Economy, i.e. the economy, and from tomorrow the finance minister. All three or four of the problems I've listed are as far as you're concerned before or the next day from today. And there's a lot of reason, logic and basis for these questions, and I hope you can answer them. By the way, I hope you'll also find a way to charge taxes in this country from those who haven't paid them. I hope you find a way not to cut people's wages and pensions. I hope you find a way to close a chronic hole in our budget, which is almost two billion euros every year. I hope it doesn't end on the third, fourth budget rebalance. Speaking of which, here, I'm asking you -- when are you planning on doing a rebalancing, because this situation is completely unsustainable and everyone knows it? So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7510	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7511	Mr. President, and I will report for the replica, but Rule 107 has been broken. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I think the dignity of the National Assembly was violated at the moment when high elections are quoted, when high sources are quoted. What do high sources mean? Here, I have a high source of DS that says DS is falling apart into three parts. High source, I don't know if it's height or function, although it's relative to DS. I don't know what a high source is, I don't know what it's like to call high sources and present high sources as an official position. On the other hand, a member of 107 was also violated and in the other part, when he honours the government of the Republic of Serbia for having secret contracts and for making secret contracts even though they are the relatives of these secret contracts of the previous regime that made such secret contracts with both Fiat and NIS, and then parts of these contracts are now being asked in the form of issues, again likely to quote some high sources that may have had insight into such contracts. What is most important, the first sentence violates the Rules of Procedure, the humiliated dignity of the National Assembly by making false. Today is the anniversary of the Storm. The governments of the Republic of Serbia, as responsible as these years have so far, organised a parasite for the victims in "Storm", the parade was conducted at St. Mark's Church at 11.00 p.m. And just because someone does not want to inform or close their eyes to the things the government of the Republic of Serbia does does does does not mean that it interprets them by insulting both the National Assembly and the Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7512	Mr. Babic, I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason I've said it several times here, and I'm going to repeat it again, that I can't be the judge here whether anyone's telling the truth or not. You know it's the right of an MP to express his views and opinions, whether I agree with that is another question, but you can say it in the day to vote. No, I don't. All right. The word has been made by the People's MP Djukanovic after hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7514	The Honorable Chairman is a severely injured member of 106, where the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. The item of the agenda is the election of Mr Vujovic's Finance Minister. It has nothing to do with TV Bor, or with Er Serbia, or I don't know who, but when such a topic opens, I would very much like to explain to us how TV Bor was selling to some Romanian consortium in time, and I would like them to tell us that it was in their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7515	As far as the agenda is concerned, the question of whether the MP was on the agenda, it is very much to say that the debate from your population may not be, however, this is about the election and a member of the government who was previously a member of the government, so I believe that in that sense the MP could extend the subject to other issues, but it is your right to plead in the day to vote. You don't want to. All right. The replica was sought by Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7516	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that the previous speaker, of course, I don't think of Mr Djukanovic, those questions he asked to Mr Vujovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia before he should have asked himself, because I too can ask him, where and by what criteria and by what grounds 780,000 people are employed in our country. Which is why the government in which the SNS has a dominant role, has put an end to the law, put an end to public sector employment, and so far no government has had the courage to do such a thing. What we will do with such a expensive state if in 2008 and so expensive public sector we have increased salaries and on the basis of which salaries have been increased in public enterprises by 68% even though there has been no growth, although there has been no economic activity, they are honored with 68% just to win the election. What about 161 firms in restructuring? What about the fact that he's the progeny of restructuring and the introduction of the company into restructuring were actually the governments of the DS. The 161 company in restructuring our state costs 800m euros annually. What about all the affairs, all the expensive loans we took until 2012. Credits that were 6, 7, 8% a year. Credits that were in commercial banks as opposed to loans that we now take from friends in the Emirates who want to drive them out of our country so badly, but they won't make it, and these loans are almost free, because they move up to 2% a year. What about all that was spent, burned down, which went through the Universal Bank, Agrobank, Development Bank, the Fundapital Investments of Vojvodina. What about everything that's been spent through the azotar? After all, it is more and more painful for the previous speaker that the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia fulfilled all expectations and promises in one hundred days, unlike Bojan Pajtic and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, where after ten years we have not received a report, let alone the fulfillment of the promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7517	Borislava Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7518	I don't know why you're raising your voice like this again. Really, again, I really don't want to fight with anyone at all. I don't know what or how to interpret this, here, we're confused. Can you have some normal dialogue with us? I'm asking the nice minister certain questions that are related to budget fees for this country's cash register, if not for the economy of this country, the minister was a minister, you're still a minister of business. I'm sorry, he's no longer the economy minister, you'll be the finance minister if most of you choose. So my questions are perfectly accurate and clear and fully consistent with what, may I say the name of Alexander Vukic, which he says in the means of public information. Is that why I'm asking? Because I know he must see the problem in that. He can't possibly not see the problem in that. So don't shut me down 700,000 companies again. So we stopped hiring by government decision. You never stopped hiring party people in Serbia. And you know it very well. Over 50, someone says 70,000 people from your party are employed in public enterprises at all levels in the last two years. There's a precise record. You have rank lists on your boards. Rang lists exist, thousands of people join the SNS daily for work. So wait, don't make that... I'm not saying that as something bad, it's part of your promises, you promised people that. Of course you don't think unemployment has fallen. It's normal what you think. It's just illogical, I think it's a little uncivilized when you say it – shame on you, you've increased wages and pensions. Is there anywhere in Europe that a hero is a man who works great, that one who reduces wages and pensions, and we are a disgrace to Serbia and we hate Serbia for increasing them. People, do you hear yourself at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7519	I'll speak quietly, but enough to hear from you and speak loudly, because when the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, three days ago says things, says the details of the contract, says everything the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past hundred days, and someone probably led by self-censorship and doesn't come to a session or driven by fear of lack of arguments, so he hides somewhere and doesn't talk, then he comes here and repeats the same thing, then the first step is to step up the vocal a little bit. Maybe he didn't hear, because I wouldn't want it to be something third, that maybe it's related to the IQ, so you don't understand everything you're saying. So I believe, I believe it's still about hearing, and that's why I speak louder. As for that decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the ban on employment, I believe it is either a secret or a stealth decision because it is nowhere to be found. Neither is the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, or the Government by 2012, applicable, so I believe it's a stealth or a secret decision, so as soon as it's a secret, it doesn't have to be applied. As for things that need to be spoken a little louder in order to get ears that don't want to hear something like that, I would like to see someone else settle the issues of the company in restructuring that ate up Serbia's budget. The answer can't be answered and the only ability and the only responsibility is – we can't solve you, we can't find a partner, we don't know what we're going to do with you, but we're going to put you in the budget, we're going to put you on the burden of the citizens of Serbia, and we're responsible. No, it's not a responsibility, and that's why we're going to repeat all the good that was done with Er Serbia, and we're going to repeat for nine planes, which you don't want to see, we're going to repeat for 10 planes... . And 70 percent more tickets and flights. [[off microphone]] Just shut me down, the chairman, I'll take it again, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7520	No, no more replicas. We're done with the replicas. Get out of the agenda. Now we'll talk about who comes to the sessions, doesn't come, about employment, etc. It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7521	You allowed the violation of Article 106 and 107 because the previous speaker made a serious insult, and brought into question the coefficient of intelligence of my smallness, which is fine, but you had to react. Since you haven't responded then you tell me that I don't have a replica because now they're going to talk about who's coming, who's not coming, and you let him talk about it for two minutes and 18 seconds. No, they haven't answered any of the questions yet. They've made two mistakes. The first that NIS is a secret deal and it's not, it's everybody knows that the government is public and the second thing that hasn't stopped employment, thinks about this our DS, and it is, just let them check the government's decisions since 2010, there's also the first vice president at the time and can confirm it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7522	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. We don't want a replica. Mr. Stefanovic, I didn't realize that anyone questioned your intelligence, I don't understand how. Through replication, expressing different opinions and attitudes does not mean questioning someone's intelligence. I don't think there's been any injury. You have the right to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? (No) The word has a People's MP, Dijana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7523	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable First Vice-President of Vada Republika Srpska, Mr Vujovic, dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, has gathered today to discuss a leading man who will lead an extremely important portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that just over a hundred days ago we adopted the Ministry Act and, among other things, the Ministry of Finance's portfolio is taxing 40 different very important powers in the government system, in Serbia's economic system. From the republic's budget of public income and expenditure balances, from tax policy, taxis, fees and other public revenues, public expenditure policies, I am now taxing at the same time from public procurement, fiscal, fiscal regulation of fiscal monopolies, to credit-monetary systems, banking systems and other very important areas. We are discussing today what is our common destiny, and that is the conclusion that we are in crisis. We who have a slightly larger number of years can remember that the word crisis has been used since the early 1980s, when after the death of Joseph Broz Tito, the national debt of the former Yugoslavia. From that time until today, there were different stabilisation programmes, different reform programmes, adopted proposals, and we co-operated with both different political actors and with the IMF. If I'm not mistaken, this is the 13th government of Serbia since the multi-party system was introduced. I urge that economic problems and the economic crisis be observed continuously. I don't think it's important that we deal with guilt so much, it's to discuss what different solutions are. As a World Bank expert, Dr Vujovic knows very well that there are different models. He is also an expert, he has participated in many debates, and based on his works, it is seen that he has studied very studioly models of post-communist transition towards market economies, not only in the region of Central and Eastern Europe, our region, but also in the region of the Far East Asian countries. It is a very valuable experience also because of his reputation and because of his experience, because of his knowledge and his human and political will to take responsibility. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for his election as finance minister. As the current minister in the Serbian government, Mr Vujovic has sent several important strategic messages and guidelines to the Serbian businessmen in the past few weeks, as well as to the citizens. I'm going to list them, point one, that's one encouraging message that the burden of reform is on everyone, that we all have a solid responsibility to share and that we bear the responsibility of these economic reforms, not just one layer, and especially those who are the most vulnerable. The message number two, Mr Vujovic, was that even when discussing the potential for wage cuts and pensions, no more than 10%, although there are different proposals, and more than that, from different IMF experts, that the 10% limiter cannot be crossed. It has also been announced that solidarity tax will be abolished in September, as well as speculation in the media from different experts, that there will be an increase in electricity prices of 30%, Mr Vujovic indicated that this cannot be just a decree to decide, but must be improved professional management and more efficient business in the EPS. We also had opportunities to listen to him about the Privatisation Act and the Banks Act, to appeal to our savings culture, speaking of energy efficiency. The next message by Mr Vujovic was that the DRI would be the main judge in public enterprises, that the future law on public enterprises would bring professionalisation in the management of public enterprises, while at the same time stabilising and restructuring these public enterprises, but also as it was encouraging for all of us, and this is a message from Mr Vujovic, that parliament would be involved in controlling the work of public enterprises. Such a relationship with the professionalisation of the public sector and better governance and management is expected to bring about savings at an annual level of at least 200m to 300m euros. So it's not just about companies, it's not just about the economic substance, it's also about the fate of 60,000 people working in this sector. I would like to stress that anyone who takes the lead, whether at the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy or in some other resolutions that are important to the citizens' standard of living, should at the same time not only be a good economic expert and analyst, but also a determined politician. I think that this very government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic and ministers, shows that determined reform-oriented politicians, but also motivators and communicators, because if we don't explain to the citizens what the goal of these economic reforms is, if we fail to motivate them to put up with the burden of these changes in common, then we can't succeed. The next 4th point and Mr Vujovic's message is about budget rebalancing. He specifically announced that in mid-September, there will be a review of all the items of the budget and that in mid-September we will discuss and decide on this rebalancing, because it is the first step in the large fiscal consolidation expected by our foreign partners, not only politicians, but also potential investors. Something I would also like to point out at the end, it is a partnership and an appeal for economic patriotism by politicians to businesses and citizens. Namely, the finance ministry has called on taxpayers to fight the grey economy together. The grey economy and working on black has been identified by this government as the greatest evil of our economy, and what we are fighting together. The finance ministry, I expect this from the future finance minister, will introduce a sharper financial discipline, as I have already said, that economic patriotism would make all the businesses operating in an illegal zone fully respect tax regulations and become equal and fair players in the competition. The finance ministry will also appeal to benefit from these tax reliefs for taxes and contributions for newly employed workers to exercise all their rights based on social, health and pension insurance. Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the Prime Minister that in taking advantage of these tax and social reliefs, foreign companies are much more agile than ours, because they are much more often following those regulations and offers for relief, while all four Vojvodina companies have so far signed up to take advantage of these benefits. I'd also say there are different analyses. Now, from the opposition's representatives, we hear different promises that it is not right as it is, that it is bad, that it is disastrous, but I would also remind the respected DS representatives, once unique, that in 2010, they have conceived a strategic document, a strategy for Serbia's development by 2020, in which they have set the goal in 2020 that 65% of working people from 20 to 64 will be employed. I mean, we all share our responsibility for what we did in economic positions and what we didn't. We also need to enter into dialogue with citizens and businessmen. Let me just briefly specify one analytical framework that was created under the umbrella, so to speak, the German Development Agency for International Assistance GIZ, which held 12 round tables on the territory of all Serbia with representatives of the economy and local self-government and where the 2016 vision is exposed. I'm just going to tell you what was key to these expectations from businessmen and local self-government. So, first of all, what this government is doing, the gray economy has been curbed, parafiscal impositions have been lifted, and this government and the previous government, which is now headed by the first Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, is then reduced pay taxes, but has been increased property taxes. So we're talking about the 2016 projection, we're talking about this government as well as the previous agile working on some of these points. The payment deadlines are limited, we've also made that happen. Subsidies have been replaced by investment and finally, something that we, like the SPS, are looking at what the Social Democratic Party in Europe is doing, which we are talking about within our party, which we might insist on, which is to set up a state development bank and a special bank for financing agricultural production. So these are all topics of thought for the finance minister. What we have managed to do so far, which is indeed in these 100 days, and also in the previous government, which is something called the "investment ambience". So we changed Serbia's image in the world, in the region, in the world and in Europe. I don't have to remind you how bad the image of Serbia was not only during the 1990s, when our economy was simply plagued by various problems such as a huge inflow of refugees and displaced persons, ethnic conflicts, in the aftermath and bombings, but also from 2000 to 2010, until 2012, when Serbia couldn't possibly get out of this, I say, gray zone of bad image. It is the experts who are talking about the image of various countries and who are following the parallel data that say that the country that manages to improve its country's image in a positive way can expect an 11% increase in tourist inflow in the country, by spreading the good news of the country and by 2% higher inflow of foreign direct investment. It is data from the Serbian Tourist Organisation that this country, i.e. this government over a period of not these 100 days, but back 700 days that numbered the opposition, or two years, so the data of the Serbian Tourist Organisation say that revenues from dollar tourism increased by 11%, that more than two million tourists came to Serbia, of which around 1.2 million were domestic and around 900,000 foreign. So, exactly what the experts told us happened when we improve the foreign-political image of this government and in this sense I also commend the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic and the first Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Dacic, because they are leading an active foreign policy that will be crowned by the fact that in 2015, Serbia is chaired by the OSCE, which brings together 57 countries and this is our chance to further strengthen the external-political image. I have to say something, let me quote the academics, the respected academic, Matija Bećković, and that will be my appeal, and he said: “All that the foreigners said bad about us, they first heard from ourselves. “ So let’s really try to send a better picture about Serbia in the world, just because we all try to be better ourselves, and power and opposition, because the parties in power are always satisfied when they have, I will not appeal for constructive opposition, but an opposition that will make professional arguments and that will constructively encourage public debate on key economic problems. I was saying, I mentioned just one syntagma that Prime Minister Vukic stressed, which is that we expect to increase and improve the investment environment, so that healthy money can come to Serbia. Let me present just one more piece of information, I ask the question – how will we attract foreign investors, if out of the five billion dollars coming from our Serbian diaspora from around the world annually, only 9% is in direct investment, and 91% is in the form of evidence. So if our compatriots from the diaspora do not believe that we have a credible business and investment environment because of the different bad legislation or regulations that are not respected, then how are we going to attract foreign investment? It's something this government is working on agilely. After all, let me quote the brother of American President Kennedy, Bob Kennedy, who said that the gross social product tells everything about a country other than what it's worth living for. I want to tell you the following: Serbian citizens are used to sacrificing their poor economic standards for some more purposes. It was wrong to give blood sacrifice for those more goals, which we may have misrepresented, we misunderstood. We paid a really big sacrifice, but now it's high time that politicians actually manage to motivate citizens to do fair work and allow them to get a fair wage for fair work too. So it's an interactive dialogue between us dealing with politics, economic experts, ministers leading economic restours and some other resolutions in the government of Serbia and citizens. So we have to motivate them and we have to provide them with an environment to get a fair wage for honest work. Finally, let me commend Mr Vujovic, since we had the opportunity to listen to him, just as I said, when he defended the Privatisation Act and the Banks Act. As a politician, I conclude that he is a very good communicator of economic reforms, to say to one pie, to the liquid dictionary eloquent dictionaries, he manages to explain to the citizens why painful reforms, not to intimidate them, but to distract them more to join. So, I, with full confidence on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, declare that we will gladly vote for Mr Vujovic as finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7524	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7525	Dear President-in-Office, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vujovic, fellow MPs, what to say after my colleague Diana Vukomanovic, except that we should remember what he defined through his four pillars of economy and how much we participated together in these 100 days as MPs that the government could achieve more than 90% of the measures outlined in terms of setting these four pillars of economic reforms. Because it is not only to pass 16 laws overnight, and there is no way to implement them, but it is necessary to set the conditions to enforce the laws of economic reform. The four pillars were, above all, on tax reliefs relating to newly employed workers, where the state holds a certain share of 65% to 75% compared to the part relating to taxes and contributions, which the Assembly also adopted. It also refers to the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises that went through certain credit arrangements with the European Investment Bank, where as a result we have 11,000 demands small and medium-sized enterprises for serious business plans, that we also have a billion euros from the United Arab Emirates in support of the budget, that we also have a solution to the liquidity issues of small and medium-sized enterprises that cobble in general with daily finances. Then the third part relating to the grey economy and the part that needs to assist in the severe control of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, but to even the criteria relating to the flat-rate taxes. So far, no government has been able to force lawyers and doctors to pay a flat tax. I don't think anyone likes to talk about it, but I think it's very important for all of us in society, especially for the Republic of Serbia's budget, because the law should apply to everyone and because those who are taxpayers, in accordance with their respective activities, should pay taxes and according to their incomes. The attempt was made by the finance minister to establish the scales on which the flat-rate taxes would be paid. Of course, those who never paid taxes should now get high rates. Of course, those rates have been changed, but at least something has been done, which is that certain taxpayers have become new in the system of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. The rise in the construction industry that was down 27%, as the builders would say, from the last 10 years to zero, when you fall another 27%, then you're in total decline, or the real estate market didn't exist. That fall was supposed to stop. What we must remember, these pillars of economic reforms that we as the Parliament helped the government bring through its 32 legal acts, and the government has prepared 42 such acts, were simply slowed down by sudden so far and in some way floods that Serbia has never had in its recent history. The damage caused by the government's 40-day floods was estimated at a billion and a half euros. It was necessary to do a very express and effective presentation and organise a donor conference at which we should have shown that the damage was simply very large, but to prove that based on all the assessments we have, we are able to carry out all of this in action and to practically remove all these damages by the start of winter. The Law on the Elimination of Floods also adopted the National Assembly, as well as the Report concerning the event itself, which lasted for a very long time and whose consequences are practically to be resolved along with those relating to the definition of pillars of economic reforms. In addition to these results relating to the adoption of the law, we have today created practical conditions that the economic indicators that Eurostat is, that is, the European Statistics Agency, together with our Republic Statistics Institute, issued on the Ministry of Finance website indicators of current economic developments in July 2014, so it is not true that there are no economic indicators that Serbia is slowly moving towards business activities. It is true that public debt is growing, but it is also true that we have 232 credits that we have had over the past ten years to see that some governments have been in debt on commercial terms up to even 8.3% on an annual level, so it is simply an indicator of the irresponsibility that existed, the irresponsibility in which it is very difficult to start business activities when all investors run away from you, because you are becoming totally uninteresting in terms of the investment environment and no one wants to work with you. What was done as a privatisation in the previous period, which is one of the best current export companies, such as NIS, such as "Fiat", we simply don't know the essence of the contract today, without talking about the fact that when they were signed, investors weren't notified until the end of the debt they were taking over. That's the responsibility we've been talking about for the past ten years, but also the responsibility with which we can safely compare today's 100 days of government. What is very important to say in the end, the austerity measures designed in terms of the concept of the work of the current Minister of Economy, and the future finance minister, show that order should be taken in public enterprises, that it will be introduced primarily by the selection of directors in public competitions, the reduction of subsidies that the state had in the work of public enterprises, the arrangement of the system of control, the reduction of expenditure, the total abolition of the representations of certain travels and the rolling stock, and that "Srbigas" should begin to start in the process of its restructuring, i.e. to pay for its particular obligations without the help of the state, which will be very difficult, but that must happen. What is important to say is that there will no longer be a practical guarantee of non-secured state deposits, which was the case for Vojvodina Development Bank 80m euros and Agrobank 120m euros. Only 200m euros have been around guarantees here by two institutions so far. Finally, in addition to what we have had so far from Mr Vujovic to hear, which is that, above all, it is open to co-operation with all relevant entities in society, both in defining and creating new legal solutions that were from the economy, it will certainly be the case and the part relating to finance. In addition to the professional qualities that Mr Vujovic has, which are indisputable, which we have heard from all the parliamentary groups here, Mr Vujovic obviously owns this one human value that refers to the width of the understanding of the problem and democracy in decision-making. In order to give you this in some way, I will quote it in one of my presentations, which I think is very important for all of us and for all of Serbia's citizens, and it concerns - must be lived according to the means available. The existing fiscal and quasi fiscal burdens of breaking an honest individual and company, creating an unfavourable business and investment climate and destroying the perspective. This is, in fact, the essence of Serbia's overall economic policy and the reforms that will certainly apply in the budget-making work and will help all of us to understand what the system of values is today on the capital goods market, but on the preservation of the social category only sustainablely, not only in Serbia, not only in the region, not only in the EU, but also in the world. Our future needs to be towards the private sector and a simple state must help create such a future. With this, the SNS will be pleased to support Mr Vujovic for the finance minister's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7526	Thank you, Professor Tomic. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) Since no one is answering, we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7527	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, respected Mr Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the beginning of the work, i.e. at the beginning of the term of office of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, said very clearly that he wants to share responsibility when it comes to the work of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, that he wants to share the values of this Government which are contained, above all in the clear and precise exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and that we are convinced that through the realization of the declared objectives and principles of the Government of Serbia, we are working in the best interests of Serbian citizens. Serbia as a state must not miss an opportunity and must not miss the chance to develop and reform. The Socialist Party of Serbia, of course, fully supports the creation of a strong, modern and developed Serbia, Serbia, which will primarily be part of the family of European peoples. The head of the SPS Parliament Club made it very clear that we, of course, want to support the proposal we're talking about today. We view this proposal as part of a whole process that was launched 100 days ago when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and built. By supporting this proposal, we actually want to give one very clear support to what this government of the Republic of Serbia has done and done for the first 100 days. We also want to give one piece of support to what this government wants to do, when it comes to the next period of time, when it comes to the realization of the stated objectives and principles. In fact, the most important thing for us is that of everything the government has done for the first 100 days and from what the government wants to do in the next time period of change for the better and the better, we are convinced that it wants to feel Serbia's citizens. We agree that it is not in a timely context for the relevant parameter to be qualified, to define someone's work, but we can see clear ways of doing the government and the goals that are to be achieved in the next period of time, and we fully agree with the position of both the prime minister and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the next period of time that it must step forward and step forward, above all when it comes to the economic and fiscal consolidation of our country. Two key words when it comes to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia for the first 100 days are, above all, change and modernisation. As a parliamentary club, we believe that the government has shown both seriousness and responsibility and determination in the first 100 days, but above all commitment to the work for which responsibility has been taken and that it is a clear route that has been routed through the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. This government of the Republic of Serbia says it has a strong political mandate, political legitimacy, a huge trust of citizens, but what is more important and equally important is that it has a sincere resolve and a intention to fix everything that was not good in the previous period and, above all, in the area of economics and finance, and that it does not run away from the problem but is going to meet the problems, it realistically sees them, so it sees them in one real way and offers concrete and responsible solutions that are primarily in the interests of Serbian citizens. It is our opinion as a parliamentary club that the government has shown for the first 100 days both its ability and its willingness to solve problems. There was one policy, as we say realistic without masks, and when the government and government representatives addressed citizens, when it came to economic, financial laws, but also when important talks were held at the level of the international community. What I also want to say in two sentences, when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is a valuable and successful government work on the path of European integration. In this context, above all, one commitment to normalising relations with Pristina, implementing what is contained in the Brussels Agreement, as well as continuing dialogue, because it is the only and true way to reach a compromise and fair solution that is acceptable to both sides. What this government has shown in the first 100 days is one determination to be with its people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. It's already been said about it through a strong diplomatic activity. Serbia's reputation is strengthened, and today Serbia is well and positively spoken of in the world, and today everyone sees Serbia as a partner, which is very important. It is clear and recognizable intensities of the government when it comes to economic and financial consolidation of the state. What we think is very important when it comes to this objective of the government of the Republic of Serbia is that Serbia has entered into fundamental reforms, is that by adopting a set of system laws, a huge step has been taken towards the recovery of the economic system, but also towards greater employment in the perspective. By adopting a set of system laws in parliament, the government has also shown its commitment and commitment to reforms. Serbia must be reformed, and this means that brave economic moves must also be taken, but not when difficult and unpopular political decisions are made. This government has shown its readiness. The social environment is not good and we will agree as a parliamentary club, but it seems to us that no one has dealt with this issue properly, except for the previous and the government in continuity, taking into account the political party ratings they represent. No one has dealt with the essence, and as far as we are concerned as someone who is part of the ruling coalition, the future of Serbia is essential to us. This and the previous government, I would say, is that it does not exist because of the political options and political parties that make up the ruling coalition, but exists because of the citizens of Serbia and that there is no higher objective, no higher interest than what is the interest of our citizens. Without reform processes, without system law implementation and implementation of system laws, there will be no positive shift. This is the only way that leads to the creation of a real and healthy basis for the start-up of the economy, and that is the only way, as has already been said, to improve the investment climate in Serbia and to make Serbia an attractive investment destination. I also want to express my satisfaction because, first of all, when it comes to economic and financial consolidation, we fully support the concept of public reform and strengthening the private sector. I would like to express my satisfaction that in the first 100 days, the government has shown that in one real and adequate way it will treat the private sector and that the private sector wants to be part of the economic measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The private sector is Serbia's future. In this respect, we also fully agree that private sector incentives are very important, it is primarily important for the economy that creates jobs, but on the other hand, it is also important for the country that lives on taxis and taxes that it collects from the company's profits. Therefore, we fully agree, the more we save in the public sector, the more we invest in the private sector, the more we invest in production, the more we invest in new jobs and employment, because it is the only and only real and one possible, real way to get out of the economic crisis in which Serbia is today. A hundred days have passed since the constitution, the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for 40 days the government has been dealing with recovery, or this government has been dealing with serious elemental disasters that have hit Serbia. I would like to say that during the elemental disaster, the government has shown that, of course, the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have shown one willingness to stand by their people when necessary, when necessary and when very difficult. I want to say that the government has shown both efficiency and determination, and courage, and professionalism, and that it has very effectively passed a special law that will speed up the restoration and recovery of all that has been destroyed during the elemental disaster. Mr Vujovicu, we expect this matter to be treated properly during the budget rebalance, i.e. through rebalancing, to enable citizens to be returned to what they have in some way taken away from them by nature. So, Mr Vujovic has already been elected to parliament as Minister of Industry, and we are convinced that he will still receive support for the responsible function he has proposed. You don't need to talk too much. That has already been said, it is, therefore, definitely a man of great experience who is connected, above all to work in the World Bank and we agree completely. It will not be easy because the economic and financial situation is difficult, but it is encouraging news that the budget surplus during July is seven billion dinars. The strategy and plan of Mr Vujović, as short as we could hear, in four points and goals that are being achieved, as far as the MPs' club is concerned, have our support. We are sure that as future finance minister, Mr Vujovic will present and realise the objectives set with broad support for all policy options. We expect the budget rebalancing during September and thus to start consolidation and expect details to be seen in the 2015 draft budget. Finally, I will repeat that the SPS Parliament Club supports the proposal we are talking about today and I want to say once again that we support everything this government has done or done in the past 100 days of office. I want to say at the very end that this government has our support and in the realisation of the goals that are to be achieved in the next period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7528	The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let MP Dragan Šormaz be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7529	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I highly appreciate Mr Vujovic's work so far. I had the chance to do something small and cooperate once upon a time, and I think it's an impressive biography with great successes, with years and decades to praise. I also fully understand this patriotic reason for someone to return to the country and help in such a difficult situation, but I think Mr Vujovic himself chose a bad career ending, such a brilliant career that will be stained by the participation in the government of Aleksandra Vukic. That's not so great after all. But it's a personal wish and I don't want to get involved in that election. It was perfectly natural for the prime minister to come today and defend his proposal as minister. It is a good custom in all parliaments, including in the Serbian parliament. But I don't miss Alexander Vukic here in parliament today, first of all, because the topic he really wouldn't have anything to say is about. What will be important is the job of the new finance minister to reduce the budget deficit. First, I would like to suggest one measure that I think is the only one that can, part of the measures that can help in this situation, which is that instead of linear wage cuts and pensions, in the public sector, of 10.15 or 20, or how bids already go, the minister defines and convinces the government to reduce the mass of gross wages in the public sector by 25%. So, a mass gross salary. This means the total salary fund in the public sector. To do so, some will be fired by the criteria that the government as an employer should agree with the unions, that those who came to those jobs should be fired in an illegal or immoral way and that those who do nothing in those jobs are fired, and there are several percent, perhaps a little more. That those who do their job badly reduce their wages and that those who do their job well through stimulant measures increase wages, such as doctors, teachers and other people. Let's see what's up with those secret contracts. They need secret contracts to become public. It's pointless, boyly or unworthy commentary to justify that we can't publish the contracts now because the other side has signed a secret clause. What did you sign? It's not a mandatory clause. So the contracts, both the old ones and these new ones, should be shown to the Serbian public. I don't think there's gonna be any damage to that, and that's gonna be it. A question for a minister who can answer me indirectly through the first vice president – what are the subsidies the Serbian budget gives to "Er Serbia" during 2014? My knowledge, it's about 50 million euros. In what way, which loans will cover the budget deficit by the end of the year? Since there are no two billion from the Arab Emirates, what are the other sources? To discover that truth about secret contracts, it will be good for the representatives of the authorities to stop lying to the people. We heard the other day that an Austrian airline gave half a billion euros to Lufthansi so that they would take the Austrian carrier under their wings, which is not true, or partly true. They paid half a billion and a half euros in the company's total debt. That means they didn't pay half a billion, they just covered a third of the debt, and two-thirds of the debt was taken by Lufthansa. Finally, since finance ministers do not stay here long, my question to the future minister, who will surely be elected today, will be his reason for resigning? Will it again be some soft organ, heart or something else, or will it be his knowledge that a government run in this way is difficult for anyone to enroll in a government that does something good for this country and for this people? When has the Deputy Prime Minister been here to ask him – what are the political and financial and economic expectations of the appointment of Mr Bacevic as ambassador to China? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7530	The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7531	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107. Whether the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, is missing Mr. Zivkovic, or not, that's a subjective feeling. I believe that there is a portrait of Mr. Zivkovic's natural size in the rooms of Mr. Vukic's party, and I hope that's how big the room is, if not the party, so he can communicate freely, because then he's the bravest. But what made you have to warn Mr. Zivkovic, which is that, what he said is that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to say in parliament. It's a demeaning assembly. That's the demeanor and the prime minister you had to react to. Because somehow when the prime minister comes to the National Assembly, when he answers all the questions asked, when he talks about all the contracts and from the past, for which he has no responsibility, but also for the contract we are proud of, which is a contract with "Er Serbia", which he stabilised and placed on healthy legs a good and large and regional company, such as "Er Serbia", then does not answer, when he speaks. Today it is said: there is nothing to say. You know what, I can speak and quietly, I can speak louder for someone to hear, but I believe this is already from the domain of pathology. So, indeed, for such things in the future, I ask you to pay attention to the course of the session of the National Assembly, and for such a thing you are obliged to warn the People's Messenger who is used by such findings.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7532	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Zivkovic thus estimated that the prime minister had nothing to say, and this member refers to the use of offensive expressions, as well as the presentation of facts and assessments relating to the private life of others, so I would not agree. You have the opportunity for the People's Assembly to come out in voting day. No, I don't. ). Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7533	Dear President, Mr Dacic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, and this time and respect and support for you, Mr Vujovic, you had my personal support as a MP in the Serbian Minister of Economy election, and now that you have assumed this post, when you decided to assume the post of Finance Minister after the new situation. And then and now, for the same reasons, because when you look at your biography and everything you've done in your life, it's something that has to be respected and it gives me hope that you are a man who wants to participate in the changes in Serbia, in the reforms that we need, so that Serbia looks what the EU member states look like today, especially the more developed ones, because Serbia is the place and Serbia should look like that. Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were part of such a world before World War II. At that time when Europe looked what it looked like, Serbia was one modern part of the world and I will deliberately say some things about that period, compared to what is now waiting for us. I think that after 1945, 70 years of left-wing authorities in various aggregate states led us here and that Serbia is in trouble because it has never had any normal change of government in Serbia as other countries had. We know that there have been almost two decades in the EU of the countries of the centre-right, both in the EU and the European Commission, etc., such as the SNS, and we hope that Serbia's entry into the EU and the SNS will become a fully-fledged member of the European People's Party. What we're doing right now is something that's going that way right now. Of course, since some colleagues are rebelling, of course we have now in the Government of the Left-wing Party, Mr. Dacic is the president of the SPS, nothing is disputed. What matters is what is done, what is the programme that is being implemented and done, and what we did with the adopted package of laws, where besides Mr Vujovic was here with us all the time, here you see how noisy they are, haven't been used to being told in parliament for 70 years, and I purposely wanted to say it, because I think it's finally time to say it in Serbia, this package of laws and reforms being done with the Labour Act and everything else that followed is something that is absolutely necessary for Serbia. Why? What you know very well about Mr Vujovic and what you have seen working in the world, which is an entrepreneurial spirit that has been choked completely in Serbia for decades and has not been developed, I think that as a society, not only of these changes of the law and of the economic environment, but also of the education system and of all others, in the coming period, the whole standardisation of our society must be awakened again and developed. The entrepreneurial spirit in Serbia is something that is now most needed. I know you know very well what I'm talking about. When I talk about investment, there is always some perception that someone should come from abroad with money and invest in Serbia to develop Serbia. Yes, we are in such a situation now that we need it and now we're negotiating sai "Esmark Steel" to come to the "Smederal Iron" as an important investor and God forbid it ends these days and that such a strong American company comes back to the "Smederava Iron" and that's where it starts to work. It is not just a foreign investor that needs our investor, we need to develop our young people in this direction, we need our young people to leave schools with the desire to develop and invest in their country, to open new companies, to create new small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop a entrepreneurial debt in Serbia that once existed. I'll tell you some examples, maybe you didn't know, you've all heard of George Weifert, you've heard of Calch in Nis, Ilia Kolarac, etc., we've got in charge. They were all successful people, entrepreneurs in Serbia. Mr. Stankovic made in Valjev Vista, which today is "Krusik-Valjevo" which is discussed. He made no one there after 1945 or what I know, so it was taken from him through nationalisation and everything else after World War II from those who somehow occupied Serbia, in my opinion. Agriculture was more developed in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia than in Sweden, for example. There was a gold dinar in 1939. A farmer in Serbia had more countries and more agricultural production than in Sweden. That's what we need to pursue, and that's why we need such changes. Do you know what Sartide means? Serbia's action mining artillery industrial society. It is the first company, today's expressions made in 1913 with mixed capital of German businessmen and Serbian entrepreneurs, which was made as a hardware store. That story you were listening to and telling after 1945 – you saw Tito iron, and you said grapes and made iron, that's all nonsense. This was done in 1913 and it is known who, why and how he did it. This government, the government of Mr. Vukic, and I know that Mr. Vujovic is an important part of that team, doing precisely in Serbia what Serbia needs. We have to give up some old habits. The attack on some entrepreneurs, I'm going to say right now, those who haven't paid taxes or worked against the law, all immediately to the court, but those who are still working, that calling whether someone will be the director of this public enterprise, what I'm listening to these days, and last night has asked the prime minister that question, or not, will be decided by the government, competition and everything else, but that someone will tell me that any party office, whether it is given to the SNS or, as it was given to the DS or the SPS, in the Railways, or "the Paths of Serbia" will better run that firm, but, for example, I won't mention the names that were so far, but, for example. Veselin Jevrosimovic, who runs the Comtrade Group, I doubt it. It's a man who graduated from foreign school, earned money abroad, returned to Serbia and built a company in Serbia. So, not destroying something here, building a private company, but a completely different way. Now, these are entrepreneurs, and these are the people that need Serbia, and we have to support them, because without investors, there is no job and no workers. We need investors and we need entrepreneurs. I know that Mr Vujovic, as a man with great experience, who knows how these systems work, will contribute to making Serbia look like that one day, and the sooner, in the next two or three years, so that I also don't have this dilemma, in 2019 or 2020, to be a full member of the EU and all that is needed on that road, I repeat, all we need to do for the benefit of our citizens, in order for Serbia to one day be such a country, a country in which there is work, a country in which workers are satisfied, citizens of Serbia, and, of course, the country of investment and developed economies and agriculture as part of the economy. Therefore, Mr Vujovicu, all MPs who are at the Serbian Progressive Party MPs' club today will support you when the vote is held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7534	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Novac Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7535	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the parties who are with us at the MP's club and together for Serbia will vote against the proposal that Mr. Vujovic become finance minister today. For the tenth time in the last two years, I'm going to say more or less the same thing about economic policy. We will vote against the proposal to make Mr Vujovic a minister because we do not have confidence that there is a clear plan for us to come up with a significant growth in our country's economy. These are things Mr Vujovic knows very well in his professional experience. We need about four billion euros a year in investment to have a growth rate of over 5% of the social product. And that's why. So we don't see what this strategic initiative really represents, which we believe the government could take to get into such growth rates. Of course, both in political and in whatever sense you want and in general public life are more than interesting issues about how much wages and pensions are going to be, because it's not just a matter of interest, it's really important to millions of our families, but it's a matter that's a consequence, not a cause. I will also take this opportunity, because these things ultimately have an effect in finance, public finances, in the potential revenues of the state, to ask the current Minister of Economy, and certainly as of today, the finance minister, which is why we have been doing nothing for two years to enter the project of irrigation Serbia? We can come from 200,000 acres to one million acres of farmland under irrigation. It is a project that takes between three and four billion euros. I know that the answer will be that it's nothing, but that there are contracts where certain surfaces need to be brought in with foreign partners for purpose and for irrigation to occur. Of course, that's good, but it's not happening yet. There's no action that the government is conducting and the Ministry of Agriculture is two years old, so we can move in that direction. Three and a half or four billion euros with huge multipliers, as these works need someone to perform. It's a matter of vital importance to the construction industry and to the water industry. The huge theme is -- can we get here to invest in factories that need to produce irrigation devices of different kinds and purpose? It's not there. What does it mean if we had a million acres of irrigation land? The average crop of corn in our country is between seven and eight, not counting, of course, the years when we have a problem with weather troubles. We can get to 12, 13, and maybe 15 tons of corn per hectare, if we arrange our land the way the countries think about their resources do. We have seven or eight million tons of corn a year, and we can get to 20 million tons. Today corn costs 11 cents per kilogram. At 20 million tonnes, that's two billion and 200 million euros. As you know, corn cost 30 cents per kilogram, so it comes out over six billion euros. Then it's not clear to me why we're not involved in investor attraction policy and making modesty and modest sugar factories here, which are then the profit rate in corn production that doubles, so we get to it as if we're producing 40 million tons of corn? It's all about irrigation. We can't make a mistake here. That is why we will not vote for Mr Vujovic. Because we don't have a clear strategy of attack, not just defense. It is clear to me that the government must make difficult decisions. We can disagree and put amendments to different laws here and not vote for the laws as a whole, but it's clear that we have to solve the deficit issue that has the budget. It's the defense, and the candidate for the finance minister has been talking about it here for the past two or three weeks. How do we save three, four, five or six hundred million euros? How in a few years do we solve the problem of spending as a state and as a public system two and a half billion or 2.6 billion euros more than we can collect from taxes, taxis and other public revenues? But there's no attack. There are no attacks, and that's a big concern I want to share here with both you and the citizens of Serbia. The second big topic is mining. In four or five years, between four and five billion euros can be invested in mining in Serbia. The mining strategy came to this parliament long before Mr Vujovic entered Serbian politics in January 2012. If it's wrong, why isn't there a new strategy, it's August 2014? Now I'm going to give you little examples. In Aleksinec, it's possible to make a million tons of oil a year out of oil shale. It's an investment from one to 1.5 billion euros. In 2011, I suppose the first Deputy Prime Minister knows that, with the Estonians, which are the largest oil and gas producers from the shale, serious talks have been made and even tender documentation has been prepared, along with technical consultations with foreign partners. In 2014, what happened in the world? According to the Bank of America, in the first six months of 2014, the United States, and Mr Vujovic certainly knows, became the world's largest oil and gas producer. How? By investing $200 billion in the oil and gas industry this year, and most of it into the shale of oil and gas. Why aren't we in this business? Why don't we produce what we can using our national resources? Let's see, then, and this is now a topic for Mr Vujovic, although he is not engaged in monetary policy, but fiscally, because he is, as he has been so far, one of the key creators of the entire economic policy, which means for our trade and balance of payments, which is the most in the deficit because we import huge amounts of oil and gas. How much will the National Bank of Serbia save when it does not have to spend over a billion euros a year on defence of the course, when we balance our external trade balance and current payment balance? There's no plan for it, and there's no answer why we don't do it. I'm not going to talk about other mining things now, four and a half to five billion euros in five years for geologists, for the construction industry, for all those who produce equipment, so the mines can start producing. It's a big subject. Energy efficiency, 25% of our country's houses and apartments are heating up on electricity. We do not need a better and clear indicator of how messy we have the system, to extract coal in Kolubara, to carry it to Obrenovac, and to Kostolac, to make electricity, to get power to Belgrade by power lines and to which you want the city in Serbia and to return it to heat energy. It's a much bigger topic than how much electricity, no matter how important it is to us at any moment. We need about two and a half billion euros to get 25% of the dwellings that are heating up, and 25% of the apartments and houses that are heating up on district heating and gas, to make them spend significantly less energy, two and a half billion euros. For the construction industry, for those who produce insulation materials and all that back in seven years. Well, if that could have happened in Slovakia and the Czech Republic and Austria and Germany, I don't see why that can't happen in Serbia. That thing can't happen without the government. For two years, biomass, just to clean up and treat the forests well in Serbia, we can have 60m euros in cuts that are energy for electricity production and hot water. With a good approach, in less than five years we can get to have 500m euros of energy produced, only from the "Serb Forest". I'm not talking about any of these things right now, and I didn't say that in 2011 and where I was able to carry out the measures to take steps towards these things. I've been talking about this for the last two years. It is not possible, it is simply not possible to make very significant steps just by making a good environment and waiting for someone to realize that there is a good climate for investment in Serbia. The people who deal with this know it very well. It's not good news. It's not good news all over Europe, it's not good news or good news is little where in the world investment is concerned. Unless we have a good and organized way of accessing the use of our natural resources, the very serious and great human potential that we have and thus open the space to where it is natural and normal. Millions of people in Serbia are starting to earn more money, and we will never solve the issues that led Mr Krstic to resign as finance minister, and Mr Vujovic will today be introduced into office of the new finance minister. This is the square of a circle that can't be solved. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia are very ready, if they see that there is a clear plan, to spend as much time as necessary and to save as necessary and necessary, if we have a clear idea that we will step by step, thousands of our families will lead to an opportunity to earn more than they earn today. One thing that is related to the work of the finance minister and to what, if will be political, should be done with the Minister for Local Self-Government, in the next few months, it is possible to make a fair system for local self-governments, for which there is general confidence in professional circles that they have the opportunity to make a very significant contribution to the consolidation of public finances, so a fair system for those who are good rewards to the government and this parliament, those who are bad at punishing them, to end the time for all to be punished in the same way. In Serbia, not all cities and municipalities share the same percentage of those who work in local self-government according to the number of residents, and I think Mr Vujovic has one huge and large opportunity to appear as a significant reformer in the area. We'll see when it does, I guess in September, with a budget rebalance proposal, we'll see what the attitude will be and what the message will be. What will be the message to the mayors, what will be the message to everyone in the local administration who should make significant decisions. Once again, we will vote against the proposal to make Mr Vujovic a finance minister, and I truly want in this House not so long before us to meet with a round and clear economic policy that will contain plans to improve our lives using our national resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7536	Thank you, fellow Petrovic. At the same time, I am informing the NDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary group that the time of their parliamentary group has expired. I think it was correct to let you know about it. The People's Messenger Novica Tonchev has the word, and let the People's Messenger Gordana Komic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7537	Dear President, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vujovic, dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I come from a party that, I can freely claim, has in my ranks the best staff. However, it happens that some have left, whether because of function or their business, but still our party's policy is such that we always place and support the best staff in responsible places in this country. Since we have heard the biography of Mr Vujovic and his references, our parliamentary group will vote today for a proposal to make Mr Vujovic a finance minister in our government. As Mr Vujović was also Minister of Economy, we know that on your proposal this house, or the Assembly, has brought many privileges, or benefits to the businessmen, but here as a man who has experience in the economy, I can tell you that businesses have never failed, or are not failing because of taxes or taxes to any state, but that businesses are failing because of the lack of work and poorly chosen management. Since you in the Ministry of Finance will certainly have a lot of work to do, I want to tell you that you choose good management, to choose people who will be experienced, with school and who will apply the laws. We sit here and sleep here for nothing, and we make good laws all the time if we don't have people to apply them in practice. I'll point out some more facts you'd like to keep in mind when you work. In public, there's a lot of speculation about what the percentage of salary cuts will be, whether it'll be 5, 10, 15, 20%. As I come from a party that has a social justice programme in its programme, it is unthinkable for us to have someone who works in a public enterprise, whether they are in a leading position, whether they are a member of a supervisory board or anything to do, whether they have a double, or a triple, or a fivefold salary from a prime minister or a minister. So we suggest you first look at what these people's salaries are and what they're giving us, what they give the state for that money they're receiving, and then succesively if this country needs to cut the wages proportionally. The second thing is to announce the budget rebalance for September that you will prepare for this assembly. As I came from an undeveloped municipality, and in the past we had a minister who was also Minister of Finance and Minister of Economy and Minister of Economy. As a businessman, I attended sessions when this man, or minister of business, who was the same man, told us to the businessmen, and then he spoke second when he held with us the presidents of local self-government. So I ask you to pay particular attention to undeveloped municipalities during the budget rebalance. As you know, a fellow MP earlier said that the Office for Sustainable Development no longer exists, reduced taxes, as reduced taxes, reduced revenues from local self-government. I can tell you that these 47 municipalities live only from that transfer, and I've never heard from anywhere before that we've got some privileges for these 47 municipalities, and if we cut them down to budget rebalances of transfers, then we're really going to bring these local self-governments into an awkward position. So I ask you not to reduce transfers during the rebalancing process, and it would be desirable if you could increase transfers by underdeveloped municipalities. I also pointed out, and now I want to point out, to help the economy as a minister what you can do, and that's about the VAT bill, especially in the construction industry. If we're going to help the construction industry, then let's see that businessmen and people who deal with the building, and in other activities, pay VAT for the invoices, not the ones that are paid for. Then we'll help that industry move forward. I'd also like to ask you about granting state guarantees to our companies, especially those involved in international tenders. These are some facts I'd like to point out to you. Soon we will choose a new Minister of Economy, and we will also show him how to help our economy. Once again, I can tell you that as a member of the SPS and our parliamentary group will vote for your election today and I wish you all good luck if you do something good for Serbia, it will be good for us and for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7538	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, and let Dr Vladimir Orlic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7539	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the session where a member of the government is elected is, with the session of the adoption of the Budget or Amendment Act and the addition of the law, the most important session in the work of a parliament. As an introduction to the topic I want to share with the Prime Minister's candidate, that is, with the Deputy Prime Minister who is the Proposer, I would like to remind you that for the 13 and a half years since the formation of the government on January 25, 2001, there were seven finance ministers. I voted for four, I was against three. The average mandate of the finance minister was 17 months, which is not as terrible as the fact that the average budget cycle for these last 13 and a half years, or fiscally about four and a half months. So, on average, one finance minister was one budget and one rebalance, or two rebalances. These are data that, hopefully, the future finance minister should serve for a picture of the context, as it would be good to, once we see a real context, stop the mystification and public finances and budgets. So, I voted for four ministers, I didn't vote for three, and Minister Vujovic will balance in my vote, because I won't vote for his election either, so I will have four for which I was in favour and four against. Why? I know that the minister, or candidate, will hardly record what he is told during this session, I hope he will, as I hope the minister during his term, will last 17 months or more, do things that I will be able to say – I regret being against your choices. I really hope so. These previous seven votes have shown me I was right. So, when we look at the subject of the finance minister, it is the budget of the Republic of Serbia and I will try in one case, metaphors, to initiate the process of demystification and budgets and revenues and expenditures and a tendency to not know how to say the numbers, not when it comes to candidate for minister, when it comes to the budget available to the Republic of Serbia. The amount of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the consolidated budget is about 1,700 billion dinars or about 15 billion euros. What's a consolidated budget? This is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Budget Law that we bring, then the budgets of local self-government and the AP Vojvodina and the budgets of the PIO and RFZO funds. When it comes to consolidateds, it means little to people, and I will try, for them, in a ton of one strip of mystification from the subject of public income and expenditure, to compare it with the house in which the four-member family of Milice and Milos Petrovic live, with two teenage children, Milan and Anna, their total incomes of 700 euros. Both work, their revenues are 700 euros, and they need 850 euros for basic costs. Around their house, they have a garden or have a small extra property, whose income is 150 euros, and expenditures are 200 euros. Also with them are grandparents, Paja and Stan, whose incomes are 200 euros, and the expenditures are 250 euros. It's about a consolidated budget. What do families do with these missing 150, 50 and 50 euros? They manage as they know and can. That's how it happens in countries where public finances are in consolidation. The state has obligations in which it can compensate for this deficit, there are clear rules by which it must behave in the adoption of both sums and estimates of public revenues and sums and public expenditure estimates. It's a topic I won't vote for as minister, because I didn't hear what I wanted him to hear and at least open a dialogue, if nothing of the data we're going to share is about his work. The first topic is taxpayers. Who is all the taxpayer in Serbia and with whom are the taxpayers full of the revenue side of the budget? There are several groups, and one is mentioned as trying to get into the tax system, and these are lawyers, three times the law was here, three times the law fell in an attempt to introduce tax to lawyers. Let's open a dialogue. They are not lawyers of a group that does not want to participate in Serbia's recovery, but there must be dialogue with them, and now I will tell you why. Because the lawyers had an increase in cobwebs, and then the lawyers wouldn't pay the cobwebs, because the cobwebs were increased because the state had solved it, you didn't want the tax, here's your cobwebs. When the Chamber suggested that they be compensated for those who are on official duty, so the state owes them o, ho, ho, then the ministry said again – they won't. Open a dialogue. An important social group, a desirable social group for taxpayers. It is similar to another large social group that is not covered by taxes, which is involved in music production or estradid. The third is a social group that has never been covered by taxes, which is churches and religious communities, where you have the traffic of almost money and where I don't know that there are solutions to property, for property tax. It can be expanded by dialogue in society, a list of taxpayers. Why does this have to do with the gray economy? Because if we stay on a classic traditional idea, it only reduces wages, which account for 70% of this consolidated budget, it's that small family, gardens and grandparents and if you go to that tax cut, pay cuts and pensions, you're going to reduce the total purchasing power and it's going to go to the gray economy. Because I have a small salary, and I'm going to my dentist, because I have to go to the dentist in private, because he's not in the system anymore, so he doesn't give me a fiscal bill, and we're both going to the market to buy. A good measure for that should be the topic of dialogue. The types of revenue that go to the revenue side of the budget need to be demystified, given that in the past few months this has turned into a bloating of people to human beings, bringing out false data about what the public sector is and who gives money to the budget, clearly explaining to the citizens of Serbia what VAT is and what excises are, might come with a proposal to introduce excises on coffee, that was. Three very painful things none of the finance ministers voted for or against, it's the PIO Fund and the RPO Fund. Every minister knew it was only called the Fund, no minister wanted to open a dialogue on it, is it a fund, or is it not a fund? Indirect customers are budgets under the Treasury Act, however we want that part of the composition of our public finances is something the finance minister would have to deal with. The adoption of a law on the financing of Vojvodina, the previous minister has promised, and I hope that at least it will be met, public enterprises reforms and the abolition of taxes on net income, the draft law on the abolition of taxes on net income you have in the Assembly, you have a promise and it needs to be in the procedure. Finally, I repeat, I will vote against, I would like you to give me reasons to repent about it, and the last proposal is to introduce a theme of economic crisis and change of economy in the world in 2008, here in public dialogue, because it is not unfortunately done, and the economic crisis will create a completely different system of international public finances, but it has been. Expecting that, at the amendments to the Budget Law and then the adoption of the 2015 budget law, I remind you of the topics I have offered for dialogue. I want to remind you that in every Parliament and so on and so on, you can benefit much more from having those who attack and criticize you than anyone who defends and praises you unreservedly and without any arguments. I'd like you to do things that I can commend you for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7540	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7541	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are ahead of the election of the Prime Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia in the period when it ends one hundred days after the entry into office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the government that took office with the mass, plebiscitear support of our citizens, with the support of this parliament, which is almost without a cross in modern Serbian history. Support is definitely so significant, it's really a challenge to justify it, but the support this government can justify and that's my personal position, based on everything that's been shown over the past hundred days. As shown above all, by the actions I underline, the government's determination to endure on the path of its basic goal, the goal contained in the desire and the intention to form a modern, modern, strong state in the Republic of Serbia. A modern and strong state as Serbia has long earned to become, but unfortunately, there was not enough strength in previous periods, or enough ability, or enough readiness. Thus, there were no conditions, for out of commitment and ability and willingness everything else comes out. Today, we are together in the opportunity to work together on these goals, and I believe that the modern and strong state is the goals shared by all of us, all the people in our society, and therefore all the national representatives present at the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we deeply appreciate what they mean and what they represent for us. Because these are the goals that can unite Serbia, which can only mobilise it and which only represent a policy that has no alternative in Serbia and whose moment is exactly where we are today. Today, because as has already been said, who if not us, and when, if not now, if we are deeply aware of the enormous energy generated in our society that these jobs are really, finally working without any backup. These jobs certainly involve, above all, responsible conduct in the economic sphere, responsible and strategic. I remind this occasion of the three basic directions of action in the sphere of the economy, which the Government has set before it, which are: the adoption of reform laws, the establishment of an environment that will foster further expansion of the private sector and the formation of fiscal stability as three common directions, three directions which everyone here knows very well, possess strong, mutual conditionality and integration and that only together produce results. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, were in this high house at the opportunity to directly make sure that the government worked on this. Directly and personally, because we attended the adoption of reform laws, because we made a personal contribution to end this process. Today we were reminded of many good implications of these laws, as well as many laws that are just ahead of us on this road ahead of us. So together, we've been able to lay the groundwork for achieving this common goal, the foundations that are important, which are carrying. We're setting them up today stared at tomorrow. Dedicated to their futures, generations that are yet to come, and I am deeply convinced, what is most important in our thoughts and in our hearts, while we are working today. Certainly these roads are difficult, demanding and not possible without proper personal solutions, without people who will be able to take this big deal out. This government has shown its willingness to respect not only the commitment and diligence, but also the expertise when it comes to selecting the finance minister and in this light I also observe the proposal that lies ahead of us, the proposal to be Dr Vujovic, who in the future gave her court, in particular the economic profession itself, and there is really nothing that should be added, the economic profession itself, not only through the calling that Dr Vujovic owns, not only through scientific and professional work, which is reflected in many books, magazines, other publications, which include international review, therefore, the opinion of the profession at the international level and the prestigious calling of the university professor. So, a teacher of highly educated staff in the sphere of economy, as well as a teacher of higher education staff, an expert staff, who works in other countries' economic ministries and also a prestigious position of leading economist and head of the Department for the validation of an institution, such as the World Bank and finally the profession gives its own court and gives confidence to Dr Vujovic, to manage the National Association of Economists themselves. I don't think there's anything to be added to this court of profession, ladies and gentlemen, because it's clear enough. From now on, I call on us to endure in the common good faith and in the good faith, that the great work that is before us be done to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our joint effort. Finally, to support the proposal for and because of the minister of finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7542	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Let MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the honored guests, I will vote against the proposal that Mr Vujovic be elected minister of finance in the Serbian government and, for this position, I, gentlemen, would like to make two arguments at this time. It would be good if the vice-president of the government, who is subject to a description of the fact that he likes to discuss in the Assembly, to get a little involved in this debate, that he can offer some answers to some of the questions asked by the MPs. We haven't been able to hear that today. So, gentlemen, for two years we have power here, let me say, one tandem, which is usually called tandem Dacic-Vucic's first being, now we have the Wolf-Dacic, and I think that time of two years was enough to define some criteria for measuring the results, so, the effect of this tandem. I believe that based on this two-year experience, today I can argue, argue and defend my view that I do not believe in analysis, evaluations, elections, promises and suggestions from Mrs Dacic and Vukic. Here are just a few examples why I don't believe in their proposals, and that's why I can't vote for Mr Vujovic to be the finance minister. A year ago, here in this assembly he was announced as a man of reform, a guarantee of reform, a man who was elected Minister of Economy. The man was thus announced in the government for less than six months, and when he left the government, his key argument was that Mr. Vukic was the chief braker of reform. Another example, Mr. Lazar Krstic, when presented here as a candidate for the minister, was said to be – our man, successful, achieved in the world, he was guaranteed a reform, remained in the government, Mr. Lazar Krstic, for less than a year, and his argument when he left the government, was that he had no support for the reforms he considered necessary. The third example, gentlemen, is precisely Mr. Vujovic, today a candidate for the finance minister. Three months ago, we heard that Mr. Vujovic is the best candidate for the economy minister. Mr Vujovic was the minister of economy for only three months. I wonder, gentlemen, if we chose Mr Vujovic three months ago as the best candidate for the Minister of Industry, why are we now giving up and leaving this place to the Ministry of Economy completely empty? I can't understand it, and it's very unusual that a government, on the date when it marks 100 days of its work, defends what is said – well, here we have an empty place in the Ministry of Economy, there is no man who runs this one of the most important ministries. Gentlemen, I think that's the best proof that this government or this tandem in the last two years has no results. It is not the government of Serbia, gentlemen, a whirlwind, so that every three months, every six months or a year we have a replacement of some places or the departure of ministers. I call on MPs to vote against the proposal to elect Mr Vujovic as minister. The second proposal concerns Mr Vujovic himself. Just as he was elected Minister of Economy, Mr Vujovic, I think in late May, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Finnish company Sisu, which concerns co-operation with FAP from Pritchett. Gentlemen, another secret document. Mr Vujovic has come here, I believe from the qualifications he has, to help Serbia, by justifying the principle of rule of law, indeed implement reforms. The signing of secret agreements, the continuation of such practice is guaranteed that we do not have a focus on reforms. This is where Mr. Babic said - well, wait, that's what we inherited, some others started that practice. I agree that it's inherited, but inherited bad practice, and now it's been an opportunity for someone to break up with one bad practice. Since Mr Vujovic has agreed to continue this bad practice, which means to me that the rule of law in our country has been broken, I cannot vote today for this proposal to make Mr Vujovic a minister. I see in all of this one disorientation, inadequacy, the destruction of the rule of law, and for such a thing I could never support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7544	Thank you, colleague Pavicevic. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7545	Let me get involved in this discussion, and I didn't get involved because I had no reason. You know, if I had any objections about why I shouldn't vote for Mr. Vujovic, it's because he collaborated with you at the beginning of the two thousand years, but since Kori Udovic and Mr. Vujovic were here, I don't know what the arguments are that you don't vote for them today. You say -- they're experts, they're experts, they're just wrong to be in this government. On the other hand, you are hardly at the opportunity that your assessment of the value, as you say, of people who run the government today or I don't know in the past, in the previous government, in the current government of Mr. Vukic and me, is hardly valid, because it is completely contrary to one assessment that took place several months ago, which means in the elections. Who are you to grade? You can grade, absolutely. No, I'm not talking about the MP, I'm talking about the institution of an individual and a person who has the right to evaluate. But you know what, if you vote for someone around 46% of those who went to the polls, if you vote 14% for us, you can hardly assess something that people have shown differently in the election. You know, I'm not the first time here in a government election. You know I've been in this building since 1992. Maya's not here, but she and I started here in 1992. I remember all the governments they were. I've been to most of them. You know, I speak plainly. I never understood that we had to prove ourselves so much in the criticism of what we used to be. I didn't even get ahead of it, because I think the problems we're talking about, so I've been meeting them for years. What Mr. Petrovic was talking about earlier, I took part in these talks about shale. There was a dilemma whether they would apply or not to us. I think even personally then, Tadic then had certain objections in terms of the impact of negative and harmful on the environment, then various projects. Among other things, I must say that Minister Bacevic is not even the creator of the Thessaloniki channel project. That was discussed seven, eight years ago. They were projects, too. It's hardly that any finance or economy minister can at first ignore everything that was and what were the parameters and impulses with which he entered this whole story. The shooting of whether more than one government or another is in debt now, you've estimated a little earlier that the government whose president I was the most in charge of, I could answer that even during the previous government, that percentage has risen from 29% to 56%, and I could also talk about the number of employees or those who aren't, but what do we all have out of it? I agree with you that one overall economic project should be done. I suppose Mr Vujovic has a good will and a desire to talk about it. I am sorry that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly does not allow Mr Vujovic to say anything, because I cannot now on his behalf. He wrote me to pass on what he had to say, but I'll do it in the end. I think maybe we should think about some change in the Rules of Procedure, that those who propose really have the opportunity to say something, because the situation is absurd. It's not just about Mr Vujovic. We were all in this situation when the entire government was proposed. Only the prime minister has the right to speak at that time, so perhaps in some amendments to the Rules of Procedure, it should be taken into account, because he could answer specific questions to which I am really unable to provide such precise answers. Generally, I don't want to compromise at all with what you just said, but you called me not to answer, so that's why I answered, to say that I'm here as the first Deputy Prime Minister to explain the Prime Minister's proposal for Finance. Given that the finance minister is the current minister of the economy, who has been here for the past few days, I think there have been several sessions of parliament where you have had the opportunity to ask him and discuss these topics, given that the prime minister was at the session of parliament when there was the possibility of asking parliamentary questions, I suppose most of these issues could have been asked during those sessions. Also, the minister, as far as I understand him, said he generally had answers to what you were talking about. Someone asked what the reason for his resignation would be. If I told you one thing, I would never resign, because why? Either you fight to the end or don't go into battle. I guess Maya would never resign, either. It's those old guards. But I also call on Minister Vujovic that if he intends to resign, he better not accept these functions at all, because this is not a wall of pay. This is the Serbian government that must address difficult issues that certainly cannot bring great popularity in both professional and political circles at the moment. Generally he said here, he asked me to tell you, he was struck by what you say is professional but you don't support him, that you're worried that he won't succeed and that he'll get his biography dirty. He says, "If I fail, I will help your political opponents, for your benefit, and if I succeed, it will be better for all of you, even for you." He gave you a nice answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7546	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7547	Replication to Mr Pavicevic's presentation. In these five minutes, Mr Pavicevic has two reasons not to vote for Mr Vujovic. One is the lack of a criteria for grading. You know, there are evaluation criteria, there are criteria and these criteria are defined by political action, all of what the previous government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and the evaluation is in elections. In the same election that you found yourself on the list, Mr Pavicevic, who won 6.09% and that synergy, not on his own, but in synergy with the political option you were with. I just don't know who to share the 0.9%, because it's about half-and-a-half in strength and reputation in our society. But even if it's half-and-half and the 0.9% goes to either side, you're not crossing the censorship, either. The synergy may be, but we saw what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said. Therefore, there are criteria and evaluations. The only evaluation is in the election, not some Ukrainian scenario some of your friends are calling for. As for secrecy, not secrecy, you can see the Memorandum of Understanding is signed with the Sisu Company. I sincerely hope and I'm sure the government will do everything, and the future finance minister will also sign the agreement with SISU by the end of August. The contract and this memorandum of understanding are a matter for which citizens are not only Priboja, but also for Prepolje, Novi Varoshi, the whole part of Serbia, which is very sensitive because there is no vein of the house, there is no place where they can work, it is a very difficult situation in that part of Serbia, and I would like you to visit it, that is why these people will raise a monument to this Government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Vujovic for life. I just can't understand where the hate comes from, where the need to do everything that's done and everything that's done just to keep it out of front of you, no matter how much it costs our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7548	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7549	I'm just going to reply to Mr. Vice President and Mr. Babic. I appreciate the humor of our first Deputy Prime Minister, there's no doubt that he has this one feature in public appearance. But that wit can't always cover up the lack of answers to some questions. When Mr. First Prime Minister says - I resent Mr. Vujovic for working with you once. With me? I don't remember Mr. Dacic. We can abstractally talk, think, etc., but I think the best approach on political issues is to make very precise use of certain terms and qualifications. When you say – the validity of someone's grades is questionable, and then – the citizens gave an evaluation in the elections, Mr Dacic, we graduated from the same university, although on different times. As far as I know when citizens support someone in the election, the moment the Assembly is formed, when executive power is formed, then citizens are given the opportunity to measure the results of those people they have given in the elections. So, Mr. Dacic, we're just about to be able to look at the citizens of your work and, of course, Mr. Vukic. As for what Mr. Babic was talking about, I just said that criteria exist, and Mr. Babic just said that I claimed he had no criteria, and he claims he does. No, I said we had two years to define the criteria and measure on the basis of the criteria. On the basis of these criteria, I have announced that I cannot vote on this proposal for Mr Vujovic to be elected. The second thing, Mr. Babic told everyone about the secret memo with the Finnish company Sisu, except he didn't touch the secret of the document, and that's the biggest problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7550	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7551	I'll try to raise the level of discussion. It's still a sad day. Today is something where a complete Serbian people mourned, because today a criminal action has been carried out against our people by the Croatian state and we have to respect it. I'm going to really do my best because today we're listening to all sorts of things, and among other things, we've been listening to amazing stories about Air Serbia and I'm just asking people who started talking like that -- what was JAT's condition while you were running it? It was one loser with abnormal losses, no renewed fleet, no perspective whatsoever. The only thing that developed in the company was party personnel who received on boards scary wages and scary fees. We decided to stop it and we're very proud to break it up. Mr Vujovic, I think you will have to stop much more, especially these enterprises in restructuring, and I believe that as future finance minister, since this is not directly your jurisdiction, that you will make sure that you no longer withdraw from our losing companies register. Someone here is telling us what the situation is today, and they're not telling us about how they destroyed this country's economic system, and I'm wondering how we got there by 2012. There you will have a big problem with Mr Vujovic because you continue to have flashes of some of our financial institutions from various consulting houses, you may know the general public, by Deloit, CS Mekon, the Economic Institute and so many others. These are the people who have completely controlled our privatisation in one thieving way. So, for example, former Prime Minister of the government, Mr. Cvetkovic was the director of the same "CS Mekon" when he was also director of the Privatisation Agency. He seems to have counseled himself, and otherwise this consulting house where the parties are aware of something they are objecting to today, took part in privatisation or consulting services and "Knjiza Miloša" and "Telecoma Serbia", "Mlekare Shabac", Bakery Industry Pancevo, "Frikoma". By the way, she took part in the consulting services of three banks that have completely failed. I'm talking about the Vojvodine Development Bank, the Business Bank and the Agrobanks. As they advised, we had a unique system where you could come to the bank, you say – give me 10 million euros, they smile and show you a personal card without any guarantee and raise the money. That was the economy, and that was the financial system established in the era of those who are complaining to us today. You're going to have a big problem with these people because they're still going through our financial institutions, whether it's the IRS, whether it's the National Bank or the Ministry of Finance. I have to say, since I listened very carefully to you when you explained the Privatization Act here, I really respect everything you've said, you're a very professional man, there's no dilemma there. You're someone with an impressive biography, but I have to admit, I'm very suspicious and cautious of people who are supposed to be great experts and come from abroad. For the simple reason, which the snakes have bitten, and the lizard is afraid. These people who presented themselves to us as great economic experts and experts destroyed our financial system. They've completely destroyed our financial system in various ways, and for that reason, I'm very careful. I trust you won't be like them. It is enough for me to remember Mr. Djelic, and Mr. Pitic and all those people who represented us here as great economic experts, there is nothing left of our finances in this society. That's what I'm telling you right now because I'd like first of all some things you have to do. Of course I'm not talking about these G17s about Dinkic, etc., it's a special story. When did the complete decomposition of our financial system begin? The moment someone decided for no reason that a perfect system of control of all financial transactions in this country, it was SDK, that it was completely destroyed, and that the complete control of our transactions was transferred to business banks, thereby destroying domestic banks, and allowing only foreign banks to pay, say, profit taxes, nothing is known about what happens to these money, and they bring all the money out of this country. It has been estimated that around 55 billion euros in the past decade have been taken out of this country. Are you aware of the number? If it were 55 billion euros now, this country could blossom. Because you no longer had any control over whether anyone has an enterprise on the Virgin Islands, whether someone has an enterprise on another exotic island, how banks function at all, and then one such senseless system was created where, say, it was the Money Prevention Authority that was in charge of controlling financial transactions, but if someone from the bank whispered to her that they should check, or if any transactions were suspicious, the banks usually didn't report it. That's why we have a very big money spill problem today, and somehow someone would have to stop it. I'm not saying we should go back to SDK, it's not real, but something like that would have to be done, because, you know, we don't have control over how money is being taken out of here. You have, let's just say, the National Bank of Serbia, which is the only one who controls the work of business banks today, but controls them with a month of delay. We have an objective problem, a question of what they send after the National Bank. It just has to change. It's got to be more rigid control. I believe as finance minister, you'll do something in that field. Also, what I'd really like to ask you, and that's the IRS. I think someone consciously destroyed that system because today you have even four software in the IRS, none of them integrated with each other. You have no idea what real data is what anyone owes this company. You have a system -- special software for office control, special software for tax police, special software for I don't know about field control, special for income management, and there's no telling who's doing what. We have no idea today who the real taxpayers really are, because there's no control at all. It's completely broken. I think someone did it very consciously. That's why we're in such a grey economy, which is why we're in a very awkward position today. I believe that you will try to integrate this system into the IRS so that it can be unique, that these things never happen again, and that, of course, the IRS itself encourages it to work much more efficiently, because objectively, the IRS has much more powers than some other organs. He can enter the company and test your blood cells, which the people would say, but they don't, unfortunately, do it selectively, put something in the drawer, and then, of course, there's nothing going on, so today we're having a gray economy. So I'd really like to ask you to take first of all into account as future finance minister. You'll have full support for both SNS and the general public, because it must never happen to us again, and that was an incredible business system that we have here affirmed by those who are criticizing us today, which is that you can, for example, be a taxpayer and not pay taxes at all for 10-15 years and that you don't care because someone didn't pay the tax. Also, about our relationship with the World Bank and the IMF, I know that we are in one situation today, Mr. Vujovic, where we must somehow get that arrangement with the World Bank. Although I am reading today an interview in "Politice" given by Mr. Tony Verheen. I don't know how much you know him, he's the head of the World Bank's office today, I guess you know him, but I have to admit that his interview was rude because somehow he's treated our country a little bit, at least that's what I feel like by reading all of this. I'd like to make a mistake. But we have to make that arrangement and it's something that's most important to us. However, we have to keep an eye on it, another world bank is being created, and that is the World Bank Bricks, and perhaps in some future period, we should look for possibly some favourable credit, not just on this one side, of which, of course, a lot depends on us, where we are all aware that we have to make this arrangement, but it's just right, maybe, to look for an alternative sometimes. Anyway, I believe in your expertise. I believe you're someone who is extremely familiar with both finance and economy. What I've said I'd like you to do and certainly, hopefully, I deeply hope this country achieves much more financial independence than it has had in recent years. We see that this is getting a lot better and that the RS will fully control its finances, in particular to prevent the outflow of money from Serbia, and I believe that you can do so and thus you will all these critics who have allowed all of this to shut their mouths in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7552	Borislav Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7553	I'll do it for a while, since I also have the time of my authorised representative for the end, just a few things that I haven't arrived at in my previous presentation. I am interested, Minister Vujovic, if you can, through the first Deputy Prime Minister, Dacic, say, do you accept our proposal to legally limit interest rates to banks in Serbia, as we have suggested in the previous session? Do you think it is good, given that such practice exists in almost all EU countries? I would also like to ask you as a man who has worked in the World Bank for a long time and has been in prominent positions in the World Bank, how do you comment on such comments as we just heard that all the privatisations here were thieving, catastrophic, and you and I both know that the World Bank controlled all these privatisations, set up these people, and those people that the gentleman just listed, and do you at least personally feel the need to, if not yourself and the truth, then protect the institution from which you came as much yesterday? I think it's fair and it should be done. I also want to ask you, since everyone was bad at that JAT, how is it possible that JAT was making twice as many losses as Etyhad today, and that's twice as bad, and now that your yellows were running JAT, and they weren't, but let's go and the yellow ones were running JAT, how do you explain that you are now putting Sasa Vlaisavljevic as the director who was a prominent DS member? I have, of course, a few questions concerning what I was called by the citizens of Serbia and employees of these companies. One question concerns – do you know what you will do as a Government, as well as Mr. Dacic, for the problem of "Such Insurance" since people today began hunger strike? A second question for the company "Inter Lemind" from Leskovec, people are persistently trying to solve their company's problem, employees there. More memos have been sent to you, so I'm interested in whether you think and how do you say these two specific problems to solve, and unfortunately in Serbia there are many, many more. I really don't see any plan or direction in the movement of this government, regardless of these praises of these naked claims that we hear when we know that our budgeting is from 30 to 60% of our annual plan. I'm curious to know how you're going to proceed without removing your salaries and pensions, possibly privatizing the soup kitchens. I don't know where you'll find those funds anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7554	Mr. Djukanovic, I can't give you my word, because he directly asked the candidate for a minister who couldn't answer him. So only the first Deputy Prime Minister can answer. He wasn't talking to you at all. Alexander Jovicic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7555	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the current and future ministers, the MPs, today is an honor to me that as a member of the Parliament, as well as to the SNS as a parliamentary group, will support the choice of Finance Minister, Mr Vujovic, which is proof that the SNS really wants under the auspices of our country and the institution of someone who is professional, without the apriorius having to have a SNS membership card. This is indeed an impressive biography, a biography of a man who has experience in all relevant institutions in the world, the World Bank, who has worked on many projects and in EU countries, as well as in Asia, which really makes one great recommendation that man can help with his experience finally do good things, but very difficult, sometimes unpopular for our country. The economic situation in Serbia is difficult, but I believe that the government has shown in the right 100 days, the government of which Mr Vujovic is also a member, that it has shown that we really have the courage to do what others should not have thought. To adopt the Labour Act, the Law on Banking of Privatisation, Amendments and Supplements to Citizens' Income, as well as a set of media laws shows the seriousness, seriousness of the state, that we will finally, in the coming period, provide a business and economic environment that will create new jobs, and I personally want those jobs to be overly dedicated to young people of our country, people who finally have to get a chance to work, a chance to start their families, and to support our oldest citizens, our already old parents so that they can welcome what they say in a civilized way. And I think that with these measures taken by Alexander Vukic at the head of this government with his team is something that gives a really good assessment in this government, and I also think that the government has done a lot of things when we talk about foreign policy. Foreign policy is what is the backbone of our relations with all countries that are very important to attract investment, and I am really proud that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has found such a political climate and a situation in which we can move towards the EU, which is our strategic goal on the one hand, but to preserve the best possible relations with Russia, with which we have really big trades and with which we will establish even better economic relations in the future. Also, the government has shown great commitment, diligence and responsibility when we talk about the elemental disaster that hit our country in terms of floods and I really congratulate all the members of the government, but I congratulate the other participants, and even the opposition, who took part in the rescue of our property, our fellow citizens, and I think it was an indication that with the help of one authority, I mean the Prime Minister, members of the government, we managed to gather everyone around the common interest, which is the salvation of our country, our fellow citizens and, let's say, our inventory or our cities. It is also important that we now, and here I call on the opposition, to now also join in when Serbia finally moves forward when we talk about economic prosperity. Let us not ask you to interpret the contracts in this and that way, the figure says everything, the result is what is important for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is important for the citizens of our country, the result that shows that today "Er Serbia" is a positive firm, a company that is making capital, a company that will bring money to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which we will be able to continue to serve the obligations that we have towards our citizens in terms of infrastructure, wages, pensions and investment. It's a model that we have to reflect on other public enterprises, which is a model that we will try together, of course with Mr. Vujovic, to reflect on these 161 enterprises that have been destroyed, which, however much someone is rebelling, are indeed being robbed, devastated. Don't blame the SNS or Alexander Vukic today, because in this country everything that was worth it was sold and when we talk about real estate and when we talk about property, there are 160 companies left that almost no one will. So, people, join us together to try to solve this problem, to fight for every employee in our country. Don't just criticize, and you know for a fact that you've brought the country into this situation for the most part. This may be some constructive criticism on my part to make suggestions. You're criticizing everything, but we haven't heard a single suggestion about what you're offering to do. You saw how we adopted almost most of the NDS amendments when we passed the laws last week, so you might as well make a suggestion. What also hurt me today, one New Party MP who is not here mentioned that when we talk about wage cuts and pensions, that someone may have been hurt by a soft organ, so Mr Vujovic will resign if it hurts again, etc. I would ask that MP - and what organ hurt him the moment he retired from political life from this country in 2003, suddenly, with the great subsidy given to him by the state of Serbia? (President: Talk to me. I'm talking to you, but the gentleman isn't here anyway... (President: I don't understand that at all. )......................................................................................................... He's obviously not interested in this subject very much. I am speaking to you, but it is my right to defend the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia which are, for the first time, the views of which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say are correct, correct because the Government today behaves responsibly, committed, a government far, far more honest than any previous one, and I hope that in the next period it will continue that way. That is why I call again on all MPs to support this proposal, to support what is called - not at all costs party membership, because we have also seen great successful experts who have come to work in this country for 200 euros, I think of Mr Djelic, and then came out of this country with 10m euros. Just explain to me how, what's left of the country on the one hand, and what's Mr. Djelic on the other? Someone attacked Mr. Krstic. Mr. Krstic didn't take millions out of this country. He said he might disagree with some decisions or he was offering some decisions that were unacceptable to us at that time, but he didn't bring millions out of this country, he didn't rob you or me, and that's a policy that the SNS will implement, which is that we won't rob our citizens. If we fail to do something, that condemnation will be, or we will pay the price in the elections, but we will never put our hand in the pocket of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, we support this decision and this proposal. Mr. Vujovicu, I wish you good luck in your work. I think you're on a good team and I think you have a Prime Minister who'll know he appreciates your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7556	I thank Ambassador Jovicic. The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7557	Dear Vice President, the President-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, today we have listened to this debate and some of the thesis or calls of the Vice President. It would be a question of whether it makes sense to talk about the past and whether it should be back in the 1990 ’ s and 2000 ’ s and in the second years? I think it's important that each of us look at that past, because it's important to take responsibility. I think it is a key word for Serbia at this point -- to take responsibility for what is happening and in the places where we are in charge of some kind of work, we in parliament, you in the government and the rest of Serbia as a whole, is that way we can take steps. To solve these problems, we need to look at them clearly and we need to admit that they exist. So it hasn't been 100 days since the government was formed, here's the first reconstruction. What's what you could see for the past two years, because this isn't 100 days of government, this is two years and 100 days? I think it's hard to separate that period in which we've had, as we've heard, and we should also remind our citizens, and three finance ministers, three economy ministers and three agriculture ministers. What does that frequent change tell all of us? Obviously, we have one big acceleration in change, because in the past two years we haven't had just within 100 days the first reconstruction of the government. It says, first of all, something that is necessary for any cooperation, which is that we must have each other's trust and trust and respect for each other. First of all, the prime minister should have respect for his ministers for his first associates, but should have confidence in them. It is a prerequisite for good functioning, but it is necessary in another direction, and respect should not be turned into awe. It seems too much of awe and lack of both freedom and creativity and independence in making decisions by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past two years and a hundred days. That, unfortunately, was seen in former finance ministers. That's what's necessary and the future finance minister. I would like that kind of independence and courage to show in a different way from the previous ministers. What do we have as results in two years and a hundred days before and this government, and in fact it's the same government, only with changed positions? Something that is often repeated in public and seems to me in different ways to interpret data that are accurate, which is when we talk about public finances, public debt, so in May 2012, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 14.8 billion euros or about 50% of the participation in GDP. Now that percentage is, and we mentioned ourselves, about 66%, with 21 billion six billion euros over the past two years and 100 days of this government. We often hear that the government has inherited this public debt at a much higher level, but I think it's very important to repeat and show what level of duty it is. It is true that it was greater than the legal limit of 45%, but it is important to say that these six billion in two years is indeed a huge level of borrowing of our country. Most often we stop at this global data, and we talk little about what is very important at the level of the whole of Serbia, which is the current state of public finances in local self-government. Few of us here have talked about the state of the budget in local self-government, and here many of my colleagues and colleagues have experience in managing local self-government, as former mayors or mayors or presidents of municipalities or cities, and know what problems they are facing at the moment and how many problems public systems and public institutions in local self-government work. I'm going to talk about this a little bit wider, but I'm going to refer to the opening statement of the first Deputy Prime Minister, which highlighted the four key objectives of the future finance minister. Clearly, the congregation majority will vote and we will get a new finance minister. The first goal is to cut budget costs. Here is the first question for the future minister – do you know that in 2013 budget expenditures for earnings were 200m euros higher than in 2012? What does that mean? Is that enough proof that there was a high level of employment in the public sector? Second objective: the fight against the gray economy. One of the simple examples - we are witnessing and we see on many saws that cut tobacco and it's growing. The question for the minister – is it true that the recent months of excise duties have dropped by 30% to 40% since the beginning of 2014? It's alarming data, but when you know this data, it's hard not to go back in time and remember those 90s when it was being smuggled, when it was being sold on the streets and tobacco and fuel and when the state suffered and what a big problem it was. The third key objective - tax reform and raising the capacity of the tax administration and raising the efficiency of public enterprises. I have a question for a minister who, together with the prime minister, was in a meeting with the biggest businessmen in Serbia, where we saw an arbitrary run for certain businessmen and offers to run the biggest public enterprises, and some of these people are also the biggest taxpayers. How to connect these goals and how to solve this problem? Repeatedly, the third key objective is to tax reform and raise the capacity of the tax administration that does not charge that tax to the biggest taxpayers and the efficiency of public enterprises in which public enterprises are offered to manage people without the necessary procedures and the manner in which the law regulates it. I think we have clear indications that it's easy to measure the success of running public enterprises, because we also have good examples of the profits that are being made, but we also have those catastrophically bad ones with huge losses, which are causing our entire economy and our society to suffer. (President: You've wasted your time, eight and 30 seconds, as much as your group has left.) In the end, I want to ask the Minister about the state of public finances at the level of local budgets... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... And that's to know that many, say, in the city of Nis, budgets come true... (President: Thank you. You've exceeded the time of your MPs' group, you've spent it all. )......................................................................................................... with 60% of the planned level. Is it possible to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7558	Nice try, I just had to turn off the microphone, 'cause you're almost out of line. The next speaker is Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7559	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. First Prime Minister, Mr. Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, says the rule of good speech - get up to see you, speak loudly to hear you and be brief to love you. These first two conditions I will meet safely, and for this third we will see. What I would like to tell Mr Vujović - you, Mr Vujovic, is running here is your impressive biography, which is for every respect and candidate you, after all, that you are fully aware of the situation in which society is located and all the weights you have accepted to help this country, have accepted to oppose all the difficulties and problems and to join together with other members of the government in this reform course, difficult and painful, the only course possible, which will have many, many painful injections and cuts. But when a patient dies, then it's perfectly no matter how painful this operation is, it's important that he saves himself and saves his life. The third thing that's really important here is that program that you've given, that we're all behind and that maybe is the only thing that's possible right now. What I want to tell you is, not wanting to be your lawyer, I want to tell you what you're going to face at this job of yours. Serbia is today, and you may have spent a little time, quite another than what it used to be, broad-breasted, full of energy, full of optimism. Serbia today, after 2000, has been turned into a depression, lost ideals, lost hopes. Serbia is wandering today and is looking for its way. You'll face the fact that they'll blame you for not being able to open up all the factories they've been closing for years. You'll be resented for not being able to hire the people they've been firing for years. You'll be resented for not being able to repay all the debts they've owed this country for years. He'll resent you for raising your loans to repay their debts and interest. You'll be resented there's no production they've been suffocating for 12 years by the authorities. You will be resented that public spending is so high, it has 760,000 employees in the public sector, that such production and economy simply cannot bear it. You will be resented for not being younger, some, and some will resent you for not being older, for being more experienced, and for those who are not younger, for having more energy. Because it's Serbia. They'll resent everything, and they won't know how to appreciate it. It's unfortunate that many will be unhappy that you will succeed, but I want them to be unhappy. In this country, nothing less will be resented than to succeed. I want it from your heart to succeed, because this is the last moment when Serbia rises, when Serbia wakes up and Serbia should become what it has always been, the country of Europe that they respected and loved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7560	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia and Yugoslavia, and then again Serbia, had in their history two categories of finance ministers seem to me. Some were ministers as exclusively political figures, as prominent party champions, and we had those ministers who were top experts in economy and finance. It seems to me, Mr. Vujovic, that you belong in that category. You are among those Serbian ministers, Serbian and Yugoslav finance ministers, who were not only political figures, but were indeed top theorists, the top acquaintances of those resistors who led them. We've had experts like you in our history, like they were. Dr. Cedomir Mijatovic, we had Dr. Lazu Pachu, we had Dr. Milan Stojadinovic. Of course, all these people can be talked about with different aspects. Someone appreciated the political parties they belonged to, someone didn't, but nobody could say they weren't top educated people, people who were best in their time, people ended up the most prestigious universities, not only in Serbia, but abroad, people who spoke several world languages, people who were completely equal with their European and world colleagues. It seems to me, and I'm saying you're in the line of people like that. It is of course a privilege and an honor, but it carries with it one great responsibility. What financial situation is the state of Serbia in today? I mentioned a few moments ago a prominent finance minister in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, later Prime Minister in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, you must have heard of him and surely know his work much better than I do as a lawyer, that is Dr Milan Stojadinović. I brought, here, to this session of his memoir, quite extensive. Of course, I'm not going to read everything, but I'm going to read a few sentences that I think very clearly show that Serbia is not for the first time in this situation as it is today. Milan Stojadinovic enrolled in doctoral studies at the University of Munich, and there he listened to lectures by the famous then German professor Loca, who was the author of the famous German theory of budgetary balance. Here is what Dr Milan Stojadinović says – by Professor Loca I have remained forever as a proper theory of budgetary balance. The state should establish its needs, and then ask its citizens for income in the form of taxes and so on. Since state finances live on private property, the state must limit itself to what is necessary in its requirements. Your parents send you money to support and school here in Munich, he said. You live at the expense of your parents, you see, that's how the state lives, not just as a parent, but as a student's son. I never forgot that comparison again. These words were written, or spoken before World War I. It seems to me that the financial situation in Serbia can be equated by a lot with the financial situation that Serbia was in before the First World War, but not only Serbia, but also many other European countries. It seems to me, with what the government led by Aleksandar Vukic, we return to this German theory, that we can spend only what we earn, that the state in economic collapse is driven by every economic policy that counts for something that's not actually earned and that divides the money it doesn't have. In Serbia, many governments have acted just like this, easily, wastefully, irresponsiblely, unconsciously. We are brought into this situation not because one government led an irresponsible policy, but because many governments before you led politics – let's spend what we didn't earn, let's spread more than we have a long bed. This is the basic problem why Serbia is in the situation it is in today. Who's criticizing you today, Mr. Vujovicu? Who's criticizing the government of Alexander Vukic today? The same ones who brought us into this kind of trouble and brought us here. Today when I listen to some colleagues who belong to the parties of the former regime, sometimes I think – God forbid these people come to power, their ideas are great, I just don't know why these ideas didn't practice when they were in power. I'm hearing today about how Serbia can make billions of euros in exploitation in Alexinac, by digging through the oil mills. Then they call you why you don't show this contract, or that contract, there's something secret, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party asks them, let's go back a little bit. Let's go back to the time when it all started. Can someone show us today, and how, for example, the DOS came to power in 2000? How come the first store that was done when they broke into the Federal Assembly and burned it down was the one, if I'm not mistaken, there's Mr. Dacic here to help me burn down the entire material of the Federal Election Commission. So we, less on the word of the then DOS leaders, believed that the then candidate for president of the SRJ won in the first round, which is when the world forces said it was true. Which they do little to show the acts, contracts, memos that they led Serbia until 2012, and many contracts have been signed. Many honorable words have been given, allegedly in the interest of Serbian citizens. No one's ever shown any paper. No one showed any element of the contract that depended on the fate of many millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Who's criticizing you today? You are criticised by those who say – you should departize, manage the state. A chance should also be given to those who are not members of political parties and Alexander Vukic does so today. I think there are no prime ministers in Europe, no prime ministers in the world, who have no longer given hands to non-party people, businesses to help Serbia get out of the crisis it is now in. So he gave everyone a chance. He gave you a chance, even though you're not a member of the SNS. He gave some others a chance to be ministers and to show how much they know even though they are not members of the SNS and even though he knows, as I know, as Mr Zoran Babic knows, that there are many people inside the SNS who are complaining about it and who are not exactly right to have some impartial personality at the head of the finance ministry. But now I'm asking these critics of yours, and why didn't they do what they're talking about today? And why didn't they give the experts and experts a chance to run Serbian finances, but had to be party personalities? Then you had an incredible situation, but it seems to me that the gentlemen of the former regime have forgotten it. They declared Mirko Cvetkovic and Mrs Diana Dragutinovic a non-party figure. But, I'm sorry, how come the non-partisan personalities sit at the meeting of the Democratic Party's main committee? I really don't understand what this is about? So, if you answer questions today to the MPs of the former regime, or if Mr Dacic does so on your behalf, please ask them, and why didn't they do all these brilliant ideas when they were in power? Today we hear about how the Democratic Party proposes to limit itself, imagine banking interest, or interest that businesses and citizens place on banks operating today in Serbia. And that's what the same people who destroyed almost all the domestic banks ask you. This is what you are asked by those who formed crisis headquarters in public enterprises on 5 October 2000, who, with automatic rifles and socks on their heads, broke into the National Bank of Yugoslavia, into the Federal Customs Administration, which had done by 2012, but everything that was up to them to destroy everything that was healthy in the Serbian economy. So why didn't they limit interest on bank loans? So what did they exploit that oil in Aleksinco? So why didn't they do all that genius stuff they're talking about today? The subsequent mind is something very bad in life, and very bad in politics as well. They remembered all that when they lost power. They're sitting and criticizing today. They criticise the government that is trying, not only to change the economic situation in Serbia, which in itself, of course, is not an easy job. If you've noticed the intensities of the Prime Minister, it's the intrinsic nature of the entire government to do more than just change the economic situation in the country, and that's, of course, a very difficult task. The government president's intensity to change in our people what's bad, we won't get far if we keep accusing each other as political parties of everything that's bad in our country. Of course, the parties of the former regime are the most responsible and I say that without any hatred, without any political pathetics. The one who ruled the state for 12 years, of course, bears the greatest political responsibility by definition. In doing so, I don't want to say anything to any individual, but it's just a political thing. But this government wants to do more than that. We want to change all the bad things that exist in our people. We have to do more work. We need to be safer, we need to be more responsible, we need to be more patient. We can't expect great and epochal results to come overnight. We can't expect to sit at home and have the state finish all our jobs. We have to work on ourselves. And we've parked a lot in the last 12 and 20 and who knows how many years. Today is not easy to run the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not easy being a finance minister today. counterpart Dijana Vukomanovic, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned that the state has been in crisis for many years, I don't know exactly what year she mentioned, I think it was the '80s or something afterwards. Now I can go back even more. Since when does our crisis begin? At the Zagreb Brion Festival in 1966, the then lifetime president of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia said that our crisis, thought of the crisis in Yugoslavia, puts at least a decade. That means until the mid-50s. Yugoslavia is otherwise, Serbia is a country that is constantly in crisis. It is in crisis for political, economic reasons, and little is because something is wrong with our mentality. I didn't accidentally quote Milan Stojadinovic and his memoirs and this German theory. We can think about the Germans both this and that. We've had a lot of hard episodes in Serbian-German history. A lot of evil has been done to us by the Germans, but we can learn a lot from the Germans. We can learn to work hard, to be sacrificed, to work as a team. What Aleksandar Vukic is, I think today offers Serbia is teamwork. Although yesterday you followed the show that some of them were talking dirty about, I don't think you could see a more honest man in Serbia today than the Prime Minister. He extended both his left and right hand and invited everyone who wants to work on Serbia's well-being to get involved in the job, regardless of what anyone thought of any individual, regardless of which party this party belongs to, or that individual or does not belong to any political party. He gave his hand to everyone. He even handed out his hand to the former regime's parties, those who are most responsible for the situation in which Serbia is today. Today, infamous speakers from the former regime, they say, will give a chance there to a prominent DS member. I think more than what Alexander Wolfie does can't. So everything that is objectively possible to do in this situation, man has done. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia did. I think you did a lot to Vujovic, too. There's something we have to do as a people. We have to stop being pessimistic. We have to stop being cowards, crying and moaning over our fate and praying to God that whoever set out to radically change Serbia doesn't succeed. It's not a matter of whether Alexander Wolfich will succeed, whether the SNS will succeed. As you have seen, he has in some way put the fate of the SNS at stake in the next election, because he knows that the measures that must be taken in the short run do not bring some major political results. It's much easier to lie, knowingly, look into the eyes of the people and say, the situation isn't so black, there's no need to cut wages and pensions. There is state money, we can guarantee various public enterprises to be further in debt and that in the elections that will take place in two or three years, the SNS won, not 48%, which went hand in hand now in March 2014, but to win 70%. Free and 48%, 70% and 100% if Serbia fails. So this isn't about whether the SNS will get more or less in the next election. This is about whether Serbia will survive or not. We in SNS, Aleksandra Vucic, are giving full support to the survival of Serbia, and it can survive, among other things, and if a different economic and financial policy is conducted. If we save, if we squeeze now, but with the awareness that some new generations, some new students who may be going to school in Munich, Berlin, London, will live better than we do today. It's a vision of the SNS and it's a vision of Alexander Vukic and it confirms that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what, and who thought of this man, is a great man. Because he is ready to submit his party's fate to Serbia's fate. So, you saw, in all previous governments, it wasn't about Serbia, it wasn't about citizens, it's about winning elections, it's about winning power. Why? Because the government protects us from responsibility, because when we're in power, no one can ask us what we did in the previous period. SNS doesn't behave like that. Some others act that way. Yesterday, the Prime Minister told one great truth in the show – those who are criticizing you today, Mr. Vujovic and you, Mr. Dacic, those who criticise Alexander Vukic and who say he is a dictator, to introduce censorship, that he is like this, and is still in power. I repeat it for who knows which time, to remember Serbian citizens, are still in power on almost 30% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, called the AP Vojvodina. Saint Peter no longer knows what these people are doing there. How is it that the AP Vojvodina Development Fund provides strong loans to flower shops, pastries, beauty salons, etc? About the set-up of tenders, about commissions, about the destruction of Vojvodina Development Bank, about an affair called Tesla Bank in Zagreb, where the same lady, a member of the Supervisory Board, is the same as that of the chairman of the Vojvodine Development Bank's Credit Committee, who gave completely unrealistic financial discounts to companies that were loyal to the former regime, so you can ask them freely – and, excuse me, how do you conduct economic policy where you are in power? What's their attitude? We were in power until 2012, the people punished us, and now we're reborn, and we're not the same people who robbed the citizens by 2012, we're some new ones. They're not new. The new DS president has ruled Vojvodina since 2000. Mr. Zoran Babic said nicely today – here you are looking for hair in the egg and you, Mr. Vujovic, and you, Mr. Dacic and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, did every word in the exposé come about in 100 days until the end of the situation when Serbia had unremembered floods, when every day in Serbia you have some weather, some city, when hundreds and thousands of people are hit hard every day by this storm that I think is not recorded in Serbia's recent history. So, is every sentence done all the way? They have ruled the Vojvodina since 2000 and none of them can remember to submit a report – people, since 2000 in Vojvodina, we have done so. You had the situation not only in May this year, you had the situation in 2006 and 2005. These people who run the Duke today in the way they boss, I don't want to talk about the details, not be called here to send them to Ada Kale, reminding them of what happened in the first Serbian uprising, how I spread hate speech, etc. I don't want to talk about it. The floods in Vojvodina occurred because the gentlemen of 2000 were unable to clear the channels made by Maria Teresa, and each year take the financial reports "Vojvod's Water", each year a huge amount of money is reportedly going into channel cleaning. Go anywhere in Vojvodina you will see plastic bottles, containers, plastic bags, dead animals, etc., on channels, which serve to avoid floods. We've been listening to stories here today, we need to launch the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. We had Mr. Minister and Mr. Vice President many such actions in the previous period. And Serbia's cleanup action has turned into money laundering. Because of that money laundering today, some are responding. Today they talk about how agriculture is the great development opportunity of Vojvodina, that Serbia is a great development opportunity. I agree. But with full right, I ask the question – excuse me, did the SNS, did Aleksandar Vucic, do Zoran Babic, did Maja Gojkovic, did any of these people come up with a robbery called – giving regressed mineral fertilizer to suspicious companies? Instead of getting mineral fertilizer to a farmer, it was sold by tycoon at market prices and instead of a Serb peasant benefiting from it, it benefited a few tycoons, but I don't owe it any more. The Serbian Progressive Party will support you as Finance Minister, we believe in your expertise, we believe in your well-meaning, we believe in your commitment to better living, we believe that you are wise enough and experienced to know that difficult problems require difficult measures, but that difficult problems cannot be solved in a short time, because in a short time they have not arisen. Otherwise, if they could get rid of them in a short time, someone would probably have solved them by now, not waiting for the government of Aleksandar Vukic and not waiting for Dusan Vujovic as finance minister. So the SNS will support you in the deep faith that the policy led by the government of Alexander Vukic simply has no alternative. There is nothing else that can be done in this situation other than what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing right now, and I sincerely hope that the results of this policy will come much faster than some expect or that some do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7562	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7563	You see, first of all, the former regime is Alexander Vukic's regime, for two years now, and this regime is the most responsible for the current situation in Serbia and the economy and finance and for the general collapse of our economy and our fiscal system and the lack of investment and the lack of any real reforms other than verbal reforms in this country. I like it when someone talks under the leadership of Aleksandra Vucic, it's all right, but finally let them lead, and not just talk about it, that would be good. St. Peter wonders when you leave, as you say, to God in truth, so it is not useful for St. Peter to know something. It's much better to know the prosecutors and the police if there are any crimes, so let them act. If you don't even know what he's doing, as you say, the province's power in Novi Sad, it's enough to ask Mrs. Catalin, who yesterday was Prime Minister Vukic with, as you know, what we saw was a really large number of the throats she's growing, so ask Mrs. Catalin if it's true, and she is, that the province government has made it possible to buy those throats and that she's given money for it. What do we do now? Now we know that the province government gave those throats, the prime minister took a picture in front of those throats, the throats didn't make any noise, as the prime minister boasted, and now you ask what the province's government is doing? Because you don't know where your tail is anymore, where your head is, you just know you're talking 48%. All right, nobody slows the size of victory, but at least try to be wise, at least try not to insult people if they ask you legitimate questions. If you don't like the questions, does that mean that no one can ask them or that you gentlemen don't have an answer for them? I've asked specific questions, it can't be more concrete than that, and when I ask for interest, you've made it possible for banks. When I ask for taxes, you had taxes. Do you have any answers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7564	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7565	First, Mr. President, based on the replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why? You haven't mentioned a single moment. ) If I may, it means direct address and direct mention of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7566	Please, Granny, I mean, you're up to talk anyway, on the other hand, I don't see, it's nothing special, he just mentioned to Wolf yesterday that he was in Novi Sad, that he was visiting a farm there. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: He was not in Novi Sad, but the party was mentioned in a negative context, please excuse me. ) Please, since you're usually on your way as a registered speaker to take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7567	Well, Mr. Chairman, just for the sake of the public and for the sake of the truth that there are no double arches in the Serbian Parliament, and I have seemed to be talking to me at a congregation college about the situation in our society and how Serbian citizens look at those who complain and fight at the same time, so I would also have this relationship with a previous speaker who uses neatly the opportunities you give him to speak, without being answered, but who is regularly calling for reduced democracy in our parliament. As far as these percentages are concerned, and that's what I'd like to start with, I'm not talking about support and 48% how much support the SNS has. I'd like to mention the percentages and the support that this, such a good, circuit government and the province government have. Which is why this good and so great province government and Mr. Pajtic as the frontman of the province government has not given a single report so far, not in 100 days, let's at least once a year, we don't have once a year, let's go once in 10 years, we don't have 10 years. Let's see why this great, good province government, which so far has not given any reports to the Serbian public, Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina, the District Parliament, which is why it has so much to do with the election, which is why it has lost all elections so far in any municipality, in any city, and there have been many such elections, from Vrbasa, Srbobran, Kovin, Zrenjanin, everywhere, in Odzac, wherever the elections were. They've lost everywhere, they haven't gone anywhere, but the good ones, although they haven't given a report, even though they haven't crossed the censorship, even though they haven't done anything, except print some reports, answers, opinions, struggled internally. They couldn't make it to do something for Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Mr Vujovicu, the SNS today, I believe in the next half hour, will give you an hour's support and vote for your election as finance minister for the same reasons that Mr Martinovic spoke great about before, but also other colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group. I will add to those reasons another reason, and that one reason is because you hold the word, because you belong to the government of the man who holds the word, because you belong to the government that first went to the newer history of parliamentarianism and said, "We promised this in 100 days, here's what we did, let's go on, because you belong to a government that instead of in expensive cars, drives in buses, it doesn't fit someone because they're used to driving in expensive cars, not caring for spending, because that cost is not their own, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because you belong to a government that didn't say for the first 100 days -- don't attack us, don't tell us anything, this is the first 100 days. It was done by former regime governments, asking for 100 days to get acquainted with their cabinets, to get acquainted with their official cars, their phones, their secretaries. This was the first 100 days, Mr Vujovic, in all governments until 2012 – getting to know who will do what, to manage, to see where the building is in Germany or Serbia's Palace in New Belgrade, who will have a bigger office, who will have greater benefits. That was the first 100 days in each government until 2012. For this Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the Government of the SNS, for the Government of Alexander Vukic means 100 days of fulfilling the obligations and promises he has made before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the pre-election campaign and these in an exhibition in front of all the MPs. At that time, those who applauded and voted in favour of the exposé and the presidents of the governments whose exposés were at the level of high school essays, and this essay of high school students, the former government president, served only for that day and was forgotten. There was no way anyone could call on that, because it was only to fulfill the form of that day of exposure. This exposé that many said on that day why it is so big, why it is so large, is large because we want to do what is written in the exposé and fulfill it and because for the first 100 days the government was criticised by those whom the Prime Minister promised to sleep and eat and drink in the National Assembly, and we also slept and drank and drank in the National Assembly, but we also voted to pass laws, adopt amendments, work blood work these 100 days, and we will do so further. At the time, they didn't have much in common. They didn't get the details back then. What's the answer? An essay on 20, 30 pages of Mirko Cvetkovic or former Prime Minister, which meant nothing but to be archived in the National Assembly? Somehow, several segments stand out, questions. I'll try to answer some of them. My ears were blocked by one sentence, which is that someone in this National Assembly in the former regime was distracted by what Mr. Mijatovic was saying about your professional preparation, what he was saying about your career, what he was saying about your expertise. At the invitation of Prime Minister Vukic, a large number of young people came to Serbia and joined the government of the Republic of Serbia and all the reform moves this government is making. At the time, they were not comfortable with the knowledge and youth of Mr. Krstic. At the moment we called and were very proud that people such as Stros-Kan, Guzenbauer, Frattini, people of the world's renaissance, world rank, world names like yours, Mr Vujović, appeared in our government. Even then, it didn't work out for the people of the former regime, and I saw why. It did not fit for the same reasons Mr. Martinović talked about – which was better to appear on the DS General Board and that was the only expertise you needed to do anything in your life. It's not a priority for us. It is neither a priority nor a membership of the General Committee of the SNS. Should we have this expertise from Mr. Zoran Radoman, the circuit secretary for finance, your colleague, Mr. Vujovic, at the province level, a prominent senior member of the DS, who only qualified for this responsible place because from 2004 to 2008, he was the director of the Tax Administration of the Regional Centre of Novi Sad. Nothing more. It is normal, then, for people who support such people to mind your biography, Mr. Vujovic, to be bothered by what you've been doing and what you're doing in the World Bank and as a lecturer and as a man who really holds the finances in a small finger. On the one hand, we have, minors, high school students with the National Alliance for Local Economic Development award, which we know is awarded prizes in honor. Here, it's the only prize. I won't honor anyone if it isn't, here, there's that reward. What is it crucial that you be the regional finance secretary? I don't know personally, but I'd like someone to tell me what's good about it. It has affected some people and the international support this government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister has. I'll remember, and I'd like to remind you of the 2012 words. Mr. Dacic, you've been there, remember how people here said -- there's gonna be hyperinflation, we've got the slightest inflation for the last few years I don't know how many years. They said -- Serbia will be in isolation, and when Serbia gets such international support, when the name of Serbia is said with honor in both Paris and Brussels, and in Berlin, and in Washington, and in Moscow, when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, at the highest level, is admitted to the President of France, and to Mrs. Angela Merkel and to Mr. Putin in two weeks, then we say, no, we don't need international support, we don't know what the world is doing, they don't know. That's terrible, because that's where the mind changes, what Mr. Martinovic was talking about. It's not just an ex-post mind, that mind changes from situation to situation, from the moment it's small political points, because of the tiny bits of squishy points of view. From European to Serbian Serbia, from Euro fanatics to Euroscepticism. It's terrible things, that kind of discontinuity. You can't go to the same moment both east and west, both north and south. That's how it just taps into place. The Serbian Progressive Party will not accept criticism coming from that side, especially not from people who have come to power, or survival, or returning to power even calling for the collapse of our state, for the destruction of Belgrade and for the Ukrainian scenario. Also, there's a lot of talk here, and it's going to be about investment. There was the possibility of irresponsible behaviour that every company that is in trouble, and there are many companies and companies in trouble, let's say, are going into restructuring. We'll give you money, we'll keep you on life support. Is that permanent? Is that responsible? No, it's not responsible. In this way, the state of Serbia is also responsible for acting for these 100 days by creating legal frameworks, such as the Labour Act, the Law on bankruptcy, the Law on Privatisation, because we want life, not only in those 161 firms in restructuring, but also in all 585 firms, as far as the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency is concerned. Because we're not worried about the ratings and how much it's going to cost us, but how many people in these companies are going to work, create new values, start production and live off their work, not from subsidies. To live, not to lie down, because those who don't work, there's nowhere in the world that you can't work without getting paid. That's why the SNS is proud of our Ethyhad contract. We are proud of what "Etihad" has brought as a new value to JAT, i.e. "Er Serbia" now. One more responsible approach in management, 70% more flights, 70% more tickets sold, nine new planes. Someone, I can see that he criticises and disagrees with a flight that will be able to proceed directly from Belgrade to the United States from next year, although it was so good and so popular during the former regime, it was a mental noun, because they wanted to and that they had no place to fly to the United States, because the Pipers couldn't get that destination done. This must be done by more serious planes, and those more serious aircraft have been brought by Etyhad. Today, I hope it solves the fate of a great work, a large company like Sartid. I am pleased and grateful, and Mr. Kirby, who has made this contact possible, which has made it possible to talk today with a company of the world's renaissance such as "Esmark" for privatisation, recapitalisation or whatever Serbian hardware "Sartid". I can see that's not good either. Even such a transparent process involving a representative of a respectable, world's largest country, that even something like that is not right. What's wrong? What have you gentlemen done with the former regime? On such things, you just put your head in the sand, you pushed these companies into restructuring, you put them at the expense of that healthy part of the economy, and now you are rebelling against the Government of the Republic of Serbia's orientation to strengthen what is healthy. That those who are profitable to work more, to create more, to employ more. Once, to put an end to a sick attitude towards Serbia's economy and Serbia's economy. It is not an easy job for Mr Vujovic in front of you, because even though in the past two years our economy and we as a society get loans that are significantly lower, multiple interest rates than they were in 2012, we get them because we show seriousness in reforms, we get, not in beautiful eyes, not in honor. It's in finance and in the economy, and you know it very well, that there's no such thing. We get them because we keep our word. Because we are implementing reform steps, reform measures that are not imposed on us, we are already aware that we need such moves because of the future. But whether they were selling something, like some previous governments at the time of privatisation were selling and having a new value, money from it, whether or not they were additionally in debt at smaller interest rates, if we don't cut costs, if we don't cut costs, if we don't cut where they spill so much in the years behind us, it's all for nothing. You have to stop, and I'm sure you'll stop an irresponsible policy that says – it doesn't matter in 2008 we raised salaries in public enterprises by 68%. Salaries were increased by 68% in public enterprises that were filled, filled with party personnel, in which even that anecdotal was valid that there was no more love in public enterprises, because all relatives, godfathers or party friends were spending money there. It's up 68% of the salary, and the value is zero. What's that? Socially responsible? Perhaps if you bring those 68% from the house or from the Vojvodina Development Bank, or from Agrobank, or from the University of Bank, or from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, all that is sucked out, if it is brought in and paid 68% higher in public sectors, I will say – it's okay. But if this endangers the future of our citizens for the sake of social peace, for some campaigns, for the sake of popularity, it is a terrible thing that is necessary in the future to correct. Once again, in the end, Mr Vujovicu, you will receive full support from the SNS parliamentary group for your selection today, as well as a few days ago when we fought here together for the Privatisation Act, for the bankruptcy law. I am sure that in the coming years we will meet many times in this Assembly for the sake of such reform laws for which Serbian citizens in the March elections supported Aleksandr Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7568	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7569	Your Honor, you remember we had a problem earlier, sir. 103, 104, 106 and 107. First, an esteemed colleague stood up and said he was entitled to a replica. It's a good thing you didn't give it, it wasn't mentioned at all for a moment. Then you gave it to him, so you didn't give it to him because Alexander Wolfie was mentioned. And then it's cancer - I'll speak regularly, which is fine. However, these are the situations in which someone gets up and talks about the law, broke the Rules of Procedure, because he never spoke at all about any law, nor about the choice of a minister in this case, but now he speaks with a raised tone as if he appeared to be irritated by Mr. Vukic. I get that impression, because this flash of emotion, it's been a long time since I've seen this kind of anxiety, and I don't know what's behind it. I can only tell you one thing, or anyone who hates someone because they ask something, or who says something bad about Mr. Vujovic's biography. We've all said here that the biography is great, but that doesn't mean anything because it belongs to this regime that destroys Serbia. That's what I said last time about Mr. Vujovic, I'm saying now. No one said a bad word about Mr. Vujovic's biography, and you're now letting a man go through this typhoon of emotion and I don't know what, like any drum, which is more empty, how you hit it, now a man yells at us again, talking about pathology again, talking about the coefficient of intelligence, etc. Most of all, it struck me that someone who has all the power, controls all the media, shakes Serbia for two years, is his biggest problem and is itchy by Mr. Radoman in Vojvodina. Imagine that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7570	Mr. Stefanovic, I don't see that the reason for someone's emotional speech is because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know what, on that basis, if we were to go strictly, each of us could be out of the picture. So now that's the thing of who's watching. I didn't realize it, and I didn't realize he was off topic, but it's your right to say yes to the vote. No, I don't. The word is made by the MP Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7571	Thank you, Chairman. I would really like to ask you to be a member of the 107th Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly. To call the MEPs here to the drums that will explode with the bloated emotions is very ugly and inappropriate and I must admit that those who led the music groups -- generations without a future still seem to want to leave Serbia without a future, and therefore, of course, they continue to do this kind of thing. I'd ask you to stop these people because this doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7572	Mr. Djukanovic, you're aware there's a little something here, understand? I said, I pointed out that the height of the tone, which someone answered, is not the reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, in time, I responded to it, and I believe that this time, too, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you can plead in the voting day. No, I don't. The word has been made by the People's MP Babic after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7573	Mr. Chairman of the 108th and I didn't stand up alone for insults. We are used to these two years and Mr Aleksandar Vukic and Mr Martinovic and all of us from the SNS parliamentary group. In different terms, Mr Stefanovic called us Mr. Stefanovic, and he does not realize that each such a reverberated arrow is a boomerang that comes back and is not taught that hate is not in blood, not in the genes of the Serb people, but hospitality and a good human relationship. By profession, I'm a graduate engineer. I am not expert on Mr Stefanovic's previous words, but that is why the parliamentary group, which thank God and thank Serbia's citizens, is the size of 136 MPs, we have professionals for that. I am sure Mrs Dragana Barisic will be happy to deal with what kind of relationship. She's a professional. I'm going to ask her to be without compensation, to be of good collegiate relations, and given her expertise, given all the things she's done in medical science and her specialization in neuropsychiatrics...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7574	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7575	... Dragana will be very happy to deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7576	I don't see why... Quiet, please. Don't applaud. Now you applaud, and when you say some words, you invite someone to a psychiatric examination, etc. Please, let's not use words like that. As he was right if someone was talking about someone's intelligence, etc. Please ensure the dignity of the Assembly. Borislav Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7577	Please, Mr. Chairman, these are situations that cannot be tolerated. Absolutely, this is the harshest violation of Rules of Procedure and Article 104, where Mr. Babic is talking about a colleague who needs to treat me and you do not give him a warning. If you do not warn him of this insult now, the DS will leave the session of the Serbian Parliament and you will worship each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7578	Mr. Stefanovic, don't influence the president's decisions. What's that for? I warned the MP, and I said it wasn't right. Would you be more pleased if I gave a warning? I'm sure you won't. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7579	Dear Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, because only once an MP can be called to a member in the event of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In many cases, the speaker quoted the same article. You let him do that. The fact that someone's leaving the battlefield is necessarily cowards leaving, so they're free to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7580	We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. According to the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7581	I call for a violation of Article 27, despite knowing that your tolerance for what is said in the O.R. is such as to imply that MPs of the ruling coalition and opposition often go beyond the measure that you personally consider appropriate. But just for the sake of a stenogram, if you consider it to be a tolerance for one MP to make a diagnosis and recommend free treatment of another MP and to express qualifications on cowardice or any other property considered an insult, then I would ask you to reconsider whether it is your will to allow it to be called freedom of speech and not to violate the business provisions in accordance with what you personally think about it as the chairman. It cannot be allowed that everything that comes to mind, although it often speaks of itself rather than others, becomes a subject of political struggle. I can only ask my colleagues not to, and you can apply the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7582	Mrs. Comic, this isn't about my will or not. I understand, and in that sense I can support your reaction. However, I really felt that there was still some threshold of tolerance not to go that way and therefore did not say the measure. Both sides, you have to admit, she was switching to the other side. That's why I think I've been calling for us to keep our dignity, and it's your right to plead on Voting Day. Do you want to? Yeah or no, just?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7583	I don't want a statement. It remains on everyone who has said that it will be read in a stenogram. ‘Fama volunteer script manent’. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to share our evaluations of what you have violated...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7584	From what I understand, Riza Halimi isn't here. The word is Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7585	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, I am sorry that the minister is not here to welcome him. Dear People's MPs, the president of the PUPS parliamentary group, Milan Krkobibic announced our parliamentary group's position and I join that stance. The question arises – why? At this point I see three reasons. The first is to compare the exposés of Prime Minister Vukic in the government's election, that the reforms announced at the time are being implemented as Prime Minister Vukic stressed, and we in the Assembly supported the exposures in general. Another reason is that I think the order of implementation of the reforms, announced and implemented, is logical and good. The first is those who insist on solving the country's key problems, which is the economy, i.e. production and employment. In this regard, I would especially highlight this desire and the need for all of us to engage in the fact that the laws we have adopted in the past month are fully implemented. In this respect, I particularly think it is important to achieve a high degree of agreement in the implementation of the laws that we have adopted. The third reason is that Mr Vujovic participated in all this and in the preparations for reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7586	You wait for me to warn the messengers. It's hard to do. We ring, warn, and then it's just us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7587	I'm waiting for you to give me conditions so I can speak. We are very closely following the work of the MPs and the exhibition and we expect them to do the same to us. The third reason I stated is that Mr Vujovic has participated in all the preparations and reforms, the laws we have adopted, and we think very successfully and with full capacity. Another reason I think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7588	I ask the MPs to listen to MP Colakovic, he has asked you to listen carefully to the previous speakers. Please on his behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7589	It is that Mr Vujovic participated in parliament with special preparations and no government representative has done so in this way. It's an expertise and it's an economic language, not a political one. That is why I think it is very important and important for such people to be in the government of the Republic of Serbia and especially at the place of the finance minister. For these reasons, I believe that Mr Vujovic can be very responsible, a very good minister and MP group of PUPS in parliament will support him. That is why I believe Mr Vujovic can be a very credible finance minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7590	I thank Ambassador Colakovic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7591	Thank you, Madam Chairman. As President Ugljanin announced in his opening statement, we will support Mr Vujovic's election as finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We expect that the new finance minister will be able to impose order in the tax administration inspection services, introduce a rare number of inspectors throughout Serbia, especially in Sandzak, party hawks whose purpose and task is not advisory and control function, but the cancer of the wounds of our finances and businesses, and they are precisely the main culprit of politicizing everything and everything in this country. I want to believe that as a minister you will recognize this danger and if you are willing to deal with it, you have our full support, and we will also be there to point to specific cases or examples. Inspectors instead of working to improve economic activity, instead of working to train businessmen to operate illegally and successfully, they blackmail, recalibrate, rob a businessman and devis any attempt to operate in Sandzak. Inspectors in Sandzak are not here to advise, are not here to teach businesses and then to control how the businessmen carry out these suggestions, the inspectors in Sandzak are the executioners, they deal with politics, political belongings of the businessmen, they tailor the political will of employers and employees, they recalibrate for the benefit of a political party. Inspectors in Sandzak are not independent, they are sons-in-law, they are brothers, they are the brother-in-law of a political party that is in the ruling coalition. You know exactly how much cash every businessman is obliged to take to the party in power and to whom to give them. In Sandzak, the inspectors count company employees and control the number of votes coming from the company. In Sandzak, inspectors condition businessmen to finance a football club. Every businessman gets hooked up with a football player who's bound by that football player for a month, and then it's known, if he refuses, what's waiting for him. We can talk about this all day, and if you're ready, like I said, to put order in this area, you have our full support, because this is really one cancer wound that needs to be treated urgently. We were visited by new businessmen who would have just opened the store and immediately after the opening they got a visit from these inspectors and instead of getting some advice on how to improve their business and how to successfully and legally do business, they get blackmail and get one job that if they don't do then they can either give in to these blackmails or close their shop. We can specifically speak names, now I won't speak here, because we are asked by these businessmen who fear the revenge of these inspectors and so far goes that fear and so far goes this injustice. I warn you that if this continues, and we together don't stop this evil, the people will be forced to defend their possessions from these robbers' inspectors very quickly. As long as we here in Parliament and in this parliamentary environment are dealing with this kind of thing, that's good, and don't let this kind of attempt and this kind of solution to the problem come out. We expect you to deal with this problem and expect very quick results, because the economy in Sandzak cannot withstand this behavior by party hawks bearing the name of inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7592	I thank Ambassador Imamovic. Since there is no one left on the lists, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Were you authorized today? Marko Djurisic was, but you're both in the O.R. (Marco Djurisic: I'm not in the O.R. ) Now, do you see now, anyone who at some point asks for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and warns the president and vice presidents, means we do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Janko Veselinovic, not to be told by the MPs that we do not allow them to say it, but this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure by not saying it now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7593	So you took 10 seconds from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7594	I'll give you all the time in the world, because you're not authorized at all. I went over the fact that the president of your group came out the moment we had a dilemma about who to give the word to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7595	None of us are authorized, he's the head of the parliamentary group, and I'm the deputy head of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7596	I know you can't hear it, but you'll be complaining that I took your word, now I've stopped you from taking a second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7597	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, at first I am taking the opportunity to strongly condemn the hate speech that was made in this assembly by the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7598	Please, do you want to talk about the agenda point or do you want to abuse the Rules of Procedure and get words by force, this time, you have seen what conditions I have given you, so now you want to bring me back into another problem? Let's be a little bit more correct, no matter who's from which parliamentary group. No one has Kalimer syndrome here, therefore, rules apply to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7599	You took 45 seconds away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7600	Go ahead, you have five minutes and spend whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7601	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Vujovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking here today about the appointment of the finance minister. Here sits the economy minister who resigned the other day, Mr Vujovic. You, Mr. Vujovic, will be doing the work of the finance minister tomorrow, won't you? Who's going to do your job as Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7602	Please speak to me according to the instructions of MP Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7603	What function will he perform and who will replace Mr Vujovic as Minister of Economy from tomorrow? What did Mr. Vujovic do this morning when he left his office? Did you, Mr Vujovic, or, President, ask Mr Vujovic if he has locked his office in which the safe is allegedly no longer in a contract with the Emirates? Now the safe and the office are locked. Who, Mr. Vujovicu, will run the economy for the next few days? When do we get the Minister of Business? Serbian citizens should know, we are getting a finance minister today, but as of today, we no longer have an economy minister, an economy that is loosing, which is in debt and in losses, and an increasing number of employees. You gentlemen promised this country would come out of crisis. Is it possible, Mr. Dacic, but I ask you to pass this question on to Mr. Vukic, since we were expecting him here today, how is it possible that such a large party is not able to appoint one man as Minister of Business or Minister of Finance? Is this about incompetence? Is this about failed expectations? You brought Serbia to wait for autumn without the Minister of Economy. If there's no such man in SNS, you have one, Mr. Dacic. There may be a Mr. Ljajic or another party, let's say. It's not possible that you in the SNS don't have a candidate for the Minister of Business. You didn't say that, you didn't tell us about it. You promised us a solution to the problem. Dinkic, Krstic, Vujovic changed at the place of finance. Dinkic, Radulovic, Vujovic, and no one in the Ministry of Economy. How long will we wait for the new Minister of Economy? Take this country, Mr. Dacic, to Mr. Wolf, for three years. Someone just said you're proud of your contract with the Emirates. How can you be proud of a contract nobody's seen? How can you be proud of something you haven't seen? You were talking about fiscal discipline, taking down fiscals, making debts to fiscal defaulters. How is one of the country's largest non-payers, the largest taxpayer, going to become the director of Railways? Is this a message to tax debtors - don't pay tax obligations, because if you don't pay, maybe tomorrow you'll be the director of, say, the Railway, the Elektroprivreda or some other company? That, gentlemen of the SNS, is the bottom of what can happen to a party that has, you say, 60% support. Today you've seen from the anxiety that's in the SNS that this government has no perspective, that this government... You've wasted your time. I gave those 15 seconds. )......................................................................................................... And I strongly condemn the hate speech in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7604	The word has Alexander Martinovic, a replica. You mentioned the party, the party president. You didn't? (Janko Vesenović, from the place: When I was mentioned, you gave me no word. I wasn't in the O.R., I'd certainly give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this list of who could be the minister of the economy, so whether from the SPS, whether from Mr Ljajic's party, I am surprised that Mr Janko Veselinovic did not mention the Democratic Party or the New Democratic Party. For example, he could run for Miroslav Vassin, who in time said that Vojvodina and Kosovo are the former Yugoslav states, e.g. It is a great expert in running work, employment and social policy in Vojvodina, where development loans are given to flower shops, pastry shops and beauty salons, Mr. Vesenovic. I'm surprised that you, Mr. Veselinović, as a doctor of legal science don't know... (President: address me, please, Ambassador. Thank you. I apologize, Mrs. Gojkovic. I'm surprised that as a doctor of legal science, Mr. Vesenović doesn't know that under the Law on State Administration and by the Government Act, besides the minister, you have one or more state secretaries. Please explain to him that what is today called the Secretary of State is actually what was once called the Deputy Minister. So the economy ministry will not be decapitated and no ministry will be decapitated. All ministries in the Republic of Serbia, including the Ministry of Economy, will function perfectly normally because the ministry is not the same as the minister. That Mr. Janko Veselinovic, as my esteemed colleague and doctor of law science, should also know. I think he knows that, but that he deliberately sows panic and sows fear with the citizens of Serbia, because there is nothing left for those who have ruined Serbia by 2012 but to call for a Ukrainian scenario and say -- see, in this difficult economic situation, Serbia will not have a minister of economy. That's just not true. Let no one worry, the state of Serbia will be able to get out of this economic crisis and the state of Serbia will be able to deal with all the problems that you have left us with,... (President: Two minutes. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Don't worry, everything goes according to plan and everything goes the way Mr. Vukic announced, and what's been proven in these hundred days.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7606	Thank you. You're out of time. The word has Dr. Vesenović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7607	Thank you. Dear counterpart Martinovic said that I may not know there are state secretaries in the government, not ministers. We're just not told in the exposé that the Department of Business will be led by the State Secretary. Perhaps some members of the coalition would have made a different statement. So, I don't really know who Mr. Vujovic's state secretaries are and whether he left them the keys to the office and the safe. It probably is, but I'm not sure they'll run the policy. What I'm very pleased about is that Mr. Martinovic gave me the opportunity to say what the government didn't do...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7608	No, he didn't give you a chance. He gave you the opportunity to replicate it, not that you're giving the speech again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7609	So, unfortunately, this government has not met the expectations expressed in the exposé. Fifty percent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7610	You're abusers of the Rules of Procedure now. You use time to talk about the government, and you need to replicate your colleagues to Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7611	Mr. Martinovic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7612	So, the Government Act should, whether the State Secretarys have the right or not to replace the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7613	Mr. Martinovic was saying what was not done until 2012 and he was talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7614	No, he only mentioned Vasina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7615	He was talking about Mr. Vasin. I'm supposed to be talking about Mr. Vasin, and today we're choosing the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7616	But you've replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7617	Madam Chairman, this and the little children watching this assembly see what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7618	There's no direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7619	No direct transmission?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7620	No, you know, you asked me this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7621	Okay. That's even nicer. Just laugh, this is very funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7622	No, I don't think it's funny, but I do watch MPs complaining about the behavior of other MPs abuse the institution of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7623	You won't let me answer Mr. Martinovic in two minutes and give me orders on what I'm going to say. I am not talking about Mr Vasin, but about Mr Vukic, Mr Dacic and Mr Vujovic, who did not keep the promise they made. So they passed 50% of the law, and they didn't actually do anything. They're preparing a pension and salary reduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7624	Thank you very much, two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7625	You'll probably turn off my microphone after this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7626	Thank you. It really doesn't make sense. The word has Alexander Martinovic. We're finishing the replica round by Article 104, the chairman has decided to end up with... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: again on that side.) Do you want me to finish? Please try to mention the other side, let's finish. This is too much already. Answer, please, replicate, I'll give you back time for two minutes, legally to explain just the role of State Secretary by law, and I think it'll be just fine. Wait till I give you your time, because I took 30 seconds, even though you didn't object. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7627	I'm glad Mrs. Gojkovic has a spirit in these difficult times. As far as the keys are concerned, I'm surprised that the ones who have our senses today about how they know everything and how they have brilliant economic ideas don't know that state money isn't being kept in the finance minister's office. There's something called, here's me who has no idea about it and I'm waiting for these geniuses to teach me, I heard there's a consolidated vault account. I know every serious state keeps its budget money on some accounts, and it doesn't hold as a Democratic Party and this satellite in safes, under aunt's couch, mom's, I don't know whose. That's what they did. But they think if they keep money on the couch, in the safes, in the pantry, in their party rooms, that's what the finance minister does now. It's not working. So, it's legal, it's based on regulations, cash is not in the safe of any finance ministry, not in the finance ministry, as far as I know, there's no safe. Serbia is a well-organised state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as far as the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group is concerned, we will help the same government make Serbia an even more orderly and even better state, where there will be no more of what happened by 2012, including those famous black political funds, where the money was held by the safes, offices and where the votes of the Serbian citizens were bought for money, only because it would have to keep one in power by force, because the alternative to losing power is going to jail. That's why they did everything they did until 2012. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to change that. If the people don't like the economic policy we're taking, let them wipe us out in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7628	Thank you. Ambassador, it's been two minutes. Dr. Janko Veselinović, just so you don't mind me ending the replica, as if it were the most important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7629	Thank you, Chairman. Well, unfortunately in this address and all previous, representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, representatives of the ruling coalition spoke about the past. We didn't want to talk about the past here today, so if we were to talk about the past we'd have to get to the 1990s and the 1991s, 1995, 1997, when the same gentlemen led this country, it was in a state that was very disastrous in 2000. We've come to see that pensioners can live normally, to help their children and grandchildren as well. We've come to the fact that civil servants have solid salaries. However, this authority will bring them again so that they cannot buy bread with 20,000 or 18,000, neither to help themselves nor to their own children.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7630	Is this a replica now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7632	The vault, and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7633	I don't want to talk about the past, we wanted to talk about the finance minister, who's going to lock down his cabinet from now on, and we're not going to have a minister of business, and we're unhappy about that. It's not good for Serbia, it's not good for Serbian citizens, it's not good for you either. In the next term, you probably won't be sitting there, you probably won't be in the Assembly either, because unfortunately, we'll have four years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7634	You're talking to me now. I need to deny you this right. You really don't replicate anymore, I just expect you to turn to other MPs. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Please, what is this? Is this a threat? Is this a hate speech now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7635	You asked me to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7636	Thank you. Anyway, the press says I'm overly tolerated. Thank you. Stop this way of communication. It's been two minutes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7637	Madam President, article 107, although you have really responded in the right way, as the first among the equals in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but really how else can I interpret the words – you will not sit here, you will not be a MP, you will not be this. How to interpret it differently, rather than as a hate speech, as a threat. Is this an announcement of some new arson here in the National Assembly? Is this an announcement that someone can't run for office maybe? Is this an announcement that someone may or may not be allowed to do some work? What's that look like? Who will be in the National Assembly and who will not be determined by the citizens of Serbia, satisfied or dissatisfied with the policy we are implementing. I'd be very happy where and where we'd be in a more comfortable and better situation if there was that magic reset button. Well, you know, started by the new government, started by the government since 2012 or in 2014, turned on the reset button, all that the previous governments were doing is no longer valid, and we started from scratch. That would be great, but it's impossible because this government of the Republic of Serbia put hot potatoes in its hands. Potatoes implementing reforms for which governments had neither the courage nor the knowledge nor the will, nor the desire to do such a thing because they cared more about ratings, about what people in Serbia would say. For their political points before that, they questioned public opinion, and only then, if it was popular and good, did they get into such populist things. This government of the Republic of Serbia does not serve such measures and motives, but only what brings life to Serbia and therefore I am grateful to President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7638	What do you want me to say? I didn't take that as a threat. I wasn't born in a chair, we'll see what the Serbian citizens decide to do, and until then we'll do as Serbian citizens have decided. Thank you. I'm finishing the search on the candidate's proposal. I'm sorry, the word is Ivica Dacic, as a proposing representative. The session isn't over yet. We should also vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's hear your address as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7639	Who doesn't want to hear me talk? I think I've been very patient and patient. I walked into this gym at ten in the morning, I didn't get out of here at all, I was even more patient than the candidate who had to come out, truth for a minute. Of course, I'm sorry, once again, that the candidate for the minister couldn't answer these questions. Also, on the other hand, I wouldn't go into all these discussions. You know, it's all relative. I repeat again, since 1992 I've been on the political scene and here in this room. And whenever anyone on this or the other side mentions the former regime, I'm a quitter. I just don't know what regime you mean, is he with Milosevic and with radicals, is he with Vuk Draskovic, is he ours with Kostunica and Dinkic, is he ours with Tadic and is he now? This one's not ex right now, of course. I want to tell you that the problems the country faces were complex twenty years ago. Nothing will bring us a bickering and debate on topics that are not essential. That's why it's important to go out with the system, with the right plan right and what to do in which area I'm preparing and discussing the concept in the domain of foreign policy. I don't know what kind of parliamentary possibilities it is whether parliament can discuss it or not. No problem, I suppose, is that the finance minister who has expressed that desire himself, possibly without any legal solutions, may be talking in parliamentary clubs or committees of parliament, to present a concept he thinks should be applied in the coming period. I agree that we should have a concept, that we know where we're going, that we know which steps we need to move forward, because obviously we don't need one step forward. We need a big step forward. Why did we get into this situation, and how did we get here? We were just commenting, someone mentioned there, I don't know now I can't remember who it is, whether it's Markicevic or not, or maybe it's someone else, another program of economic stabilisation for Milka Planinc. It was probably in the same room here. Unfortunately, I belong to that generation who hasn't felt the big changes or the better than the different reform programmes that everyone had at the time of their government. I will also remind myself that the time of the reform, that the year of the reform was also at the time of Milosevic, and that I cannot remember exactly what year it was, whether 1994, 1995, 1996, perhaps 1995, where there was a year of reform, where there were privatisation commissions, I think Vucelic was leading, something was in charge of the name of the SPS at that time, etc. There were reforms after 2000. What is the goal of these reforms? The goal must be for Serbia to be a normal country and, of course, to step out if we can go as far and as far as possible, as far as possible towards the EU. By safeguarding our national and state interests as far as possible, and I think it is possible, and I think that many of us are misrepresenting negotiations with the EU, not getting ready enough, not realizing enough that we are dating our platform, not only should we agree with what someone is sending or writing. And that's possible. It's possible to fight. Therefore, I think Mr Vujovic has shown in the past that he can come out with a concept. It's not enough just to have at hoc measures in certain areas unless there's a concept. You remember. What's the difference between last government and this government? There's a difference in political capacity. The difference is that the government should not now consider the number of votes that will vote in favour of these laws and the legitimacy that it has in front of the people, or in front of the citizens, and therefore this is a chance that Serbia should not miss, and therefore I would personally prefer that we speak quite concretely and some of these issues that were probably challenging for the minister that he would answer the answer in order to tell the full truth about all these issues. I just want to add, I mean, you may not be informed about it, but the Secretary of State doesn't replace the minister when the minister resigns. When the prime minister resigns immediately determines one of the government's members to replace him, to perform that post until the election of the new minister, and the prime minister has an obligation to appoint a member of the government who, after the determination of that man, will propose the name of the new minister within 15 days, and the president of parliament will put it on the agenda of the first time. So, one of the members of the government will practically from today, or from tomorrow, I don't know when the resignation will take effect, will act as Minister of Economy, or Economy, until the election of a new minister. The provision was introduced at the time of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and was motivated by the fact that Dinkic would not perform the post, meanwhile, until a new minister was elected. You know how, now that someone new comes to parliament, then they can listen and have different explanations, and since I've been here from the beginning, then I know exactly when, what and for whatever it is in Parliament. In any case, I think it's a good proposal, regardless of what was at the time and remained in force and I applied it when I was prime minister, because then we had the situation of Radulovic's resignation, and then there was a dilemma whether at the time of the government that practically failed to resign, but the technical government that wasn't well defined in the Constitution, could anyone else be performing that function, etc. Not to delay time, this is not the area I deal with, this is a question that other people deal with in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I, as a man who replaces the prime minister, or who, in certain functions, replaces the prime minister, except in proposing members of the government, and that is why I am not here to propose a member of the government, but to explain the prime minister's proposal for a new member of the government. I call on you once again that, given that Mr Vujovic is not a party candidate, that he has a lot of experience and that he deals with these issues at a time of different authorities in Serbia, I am sure he deserves the support of the largest number of parliamentary groups. Of course, and they'll get it, that's another question. I'm sure he won't resign, but he'll insist on what he's drawn here now and that everything he defines as his own and life's politics and personal attitude will move within what the prime minister said in the exposé. I also hope and I'm sure it won't be the end of his career, but this will be a significant reference in his further career, which doesn't have to be political, but it can be political, because it wouldn't be the first time that experts become politicians. Anyway, I wish him a lot of success. This job is harder than the job of the Minister of Economy, i.e. the economy, and I want him to do this job on behalf of all citizens, in accordance with the experience and will he has, and that means successfully. Thank you. I invite you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7640	Thank you first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. I am concluding the debate on the motion for a candidate for a member of the Government. According to Article 270(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule 4 August 2014 as a day for voting on a proposal for a candidate for a member of the Government. We'll approach the vote at 4:13 p.m. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 186 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal to elect a member of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the Government, decides in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I suggest the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the government to vote publicly. I am voting on the proposal that the National Assembly vote in public on a proposal to elect a member of the government. Please insert our cards again, there's no sign, and I can't vote either. I'm asking the departments to check on what this is all about. I am voting on the proposal that the National Assembly vote in public on a proposal to elect a member of the government. Try it now. I think the system's working now. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 13, of the 185 members present. I find that the National Assembly has decided, by majority, that we should vote publicly on a proposal to elect a member of the government. Before moving to a roll call vote, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 2.9) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 25(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Government, the National Assembly of Government members, elects most of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and, according to that provision, the Secretary General of the National Assembly shall call on the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name. The MPs who approach the vote say the words “for, ” “against, ” or“ abstention. ” The president reiterates the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. The decision is considered to be made when the president of the National Assembly finds that it was voted by the majority prescribed by the Constitution, which is the majority of the total number of MPs. I am now putting the motion to elect Dr Dusan Vujovic as finance minister, so we approach the vote by calling on the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7641	Aleksić Dragan – for Alekić Irena – for Anastasov Adrian – absent Andrejević Dejan – for Andrić Mirjan – for Antic Zoran – for Arsenović Konstan – for Arsić Veroljub – absent Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – for Babić Vlado – absent Babić Zoran – for Bajatović Dušan – for Banac Groždan – for Barišić Dr Dragan – for Batić Olgica – for Bauer Dr Ivan – for Bajec Dr Muamer – for Berić Nebojša – for Bešarović Prof. Dr Vesna – absent Bečić Igor Igor – absent Birmanšavić – for Bić Milen – for Blažić Dr Branislav – for Bogotinović Žar – for Božović – for Božjan Božić – from Žar – from Božjanažić Žar – Žažić Žar – Žar – Žar – Žarić Zabić Zabić Zabić – V.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-04-0.u7642	Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. We announce the results when votes are counted. I'm setting a little break until we count the votes. [[after breaks]] Allow me to announce the results of the vote: of the 184 MPs who joined the vote to elect a member of the government, 175 MPs voted against – nine MPs, abstentioned – were not, did not want to vote – 66 MPs who were practically absent. Since 175 MPs voted for the government's election, representing most of the number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Dusan Vujovic as finance minister. Let me congratulate Minister Vujovic on his choice in your name. I now ask Finance Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic to comply with Article 16(2). The Government Act of Accession for the purposes of taking an oath. (The chairman reads the text of the oath, and the minister repeats it. ) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, to honor the Constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be done knowingly, responsibly and committed, and I will be dedicated to the preservation of the Kosovos and the metaphors within the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to sign the text of the oath. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP feels that the infringement has been committed, may require without the right to explain that the National Assembly is to declare itself in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 4 August 2014, pointed at 11 hours and 31 minutes to the violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please state whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – 11, abstention – one, 117 of the total attendance of 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
