ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9792	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 124 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9793	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia today. In the course of an election campaign to elect national councils of national minorities, scheduled for 26 October this year, the top of the government of the Republic of Serbia has referred threats to the Sandzaks, encouraging and expanding the atmosphere of fear. First, on Wednesday, September 24th, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, caused by nothing, sent a threatening message to the Bosniaks of Sandzak through the media. The same threat in a much sharper tone was repeated by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic at his press conference in the government building of Serbia on September 25th. Such threats the next day, on 26 September, also confirmed police minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who officially notified the public of sending security services to all towns and municipalities in Sandzak. With these clear threats addressed to the Sandzak Bosniaks, it is alarming that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic particularly stressed the association in Republika Srpska, 61 municipalities and two towns in Republika Srpska, in which genocide and ethnic cleansing of Bosniaks were committed. He then also referred to three municipalities in Sandzak where the repressive measures of the regime changed national composition in those municipalities to the harm of Bosniaks. On this occasion, a series of incorrect qualifications and accusations at the expense of Bosniak Sandzak and I use this opportunity to clearly and unequivocally reject all the accusations and qualifications that were made at the time. Such threats give a bad message to all citizens and can be interpreted as hate speech directed against Bosniaks, and can also be seen as a means of spreading fear at the time of the election campaign to elect the Bosniak National Council. This again encourages hostility and intolerance against Bosniaks. As a direct result, these days from other parts of Serbia and from the Ukrainian battlefields of the Bosniaks, there are threats also coming from militant groups of Serb Chetniks, who announce their arrival and marching to the New Market for October 23rd, just three days before the elections for the national councils of national minorities. All of this, whether planned or not, poses an objective danger to Bosniaks in Serbia. I ask the question – with what goal and on what basis did Prime Minister Vukic, Vice President Dacic and Police Minister Stefanovic personally refer the threats to Bosniaks? To what end are security services sent to towns and municipalities in Sandzak, all during the election campaign to elect the Bosniak National Council? Why did the government and its officials not invite us MPs, the legitimately elected representatives of Bosniaks, to study together the reasons and consequences of such procedures and behaviour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9794	Thank you, MP. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9795	Thank you, Your Honor. At first, let me thank you. I believe that your intervention has helped me to get answers to almost all the questions I asked in the previous period, with a delay, means, not in those 15-day laws, or the Rules of Procedure, but it used to take two or two-and-a-half months. The only answer I didn't get was the question addressed to the Prime Minister – what are the results of the change in working hours, what was the first measure of the government since early May this year? It's been five months now. I repeat the question to the Prime Minister – what are the results of the change of time? Has the efficiency of the work of the state administration been raised, as announced when the measure was introduced? The second question is also a question for the prime minister and for the economy minister. The question is, what is going on at the "Fiat Cars Serbia" factory in Kragujevac? At the beginning of September, a statement was issued that the plant "Fiat Cars Serbia" will not work 11 working days during September and that workers will receive reduced earnings as a result. The union then addressed the government of the Republic of Serbia as the owner of 33% of the capital with the question – what will the government do and what is the future of the factory in Kragujevac? Today we have no news of the planned production of the Fiat by the end of the year. What we find out off the record is that it will practically continue on a three-day working week, as it was in September of the month, that by the end of the year there will be barely 30 working days, that workers will leave in mid-December, and that the next year plans to lift a shift, thus firing workers and reducing production. The Fiat factory is the largest exporter in 2013, 1.53 billion euros was exported and was the largest GDP growth contributor in 2013 of 2.5%. The forecasted decline in gross-national income in this year is between 0.5% and 1%, and our concern is that if "Fiat" continues to work like this, or that it no longer works than it does, that this fall will be even greater. My question is what does the government, what does the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy plan to do about it? In two and a half years, this government has proved absolutely incapable of bringing any serious foreign investment and starting Serbia's economic life, and we are now witnessing that this government cannot maintain one big investment, an investment of over 1.2 billion euros, the investment that has made the biggest contribution to growth in the economy in 2013 and 2014. Could this incompetent government at least preserve what others have done well for Serbia, or will it continue with empty promises, empty stories, self-gratitude, with no result and with the only announcement of reforms, reforms that will reduce pensioners and citizens of Serbia? That's what we saw when the Labour Act was passed. That's what we'll see when he gets here, if he ever comes, the rebalancing, because we've been waiting for the rebalancing since April of the month. There's a rebalancing in the exposé. He wasn't here in June because of the flood, he wasn't here in July because we lost the finance minister. He wasn't here in September. We don't know why. Will they be in October? We will see. I once again ask the question – what is the government planning to do about the "Fiat Cars of Serbia" factory in Kragujevac?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9796	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9797	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the MP's question to Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, prompted by his statement two days ago that Serbia needs justice to the extent of its citizens, which I absolutely agree with. But what I would like to ask Minister Selakovic is whether a network of basic courts in Serbia will be reviewed at the end of 2014? Why am I asking this question? Because the basic court in Arangelovac consists of headquarters in Arangelovac and a judicial unit covering the areas of Topola and Raca, based in Topoli. This basic court has 15 judges, nine of them in Arangelovac, and six are in Topoli. What's the biggest problem is the overbooking of this unit in Topoli, which by all parameters should be the basic court. Therefore, I would ask the Minister of Justice to provide me with information, parallel, with municipalities in the environment, primarily with Gornji Milanovac, or for example. with Mionica, who has basic courts, to see the parallel number of cases that exist in those courts. I'm just going to read to the citizens that, for example, There are currently over 5,000 executions in the Topola court unit, that there are over 600 lawsuits, 282 guilty cases, 238 left behind, family relations 52 and out of case 38 cases. What appears particularly as a problem for the people of the territory of Raca, who unfortunately do not have any trials in this distribution and justice is not available to their citizens. Unfortunately, some of the villages belonging to Raca need to travel to Topola up to 60 km, which leads to people in a very difficult situation, because the citizens of this part of the Central Shumada know that Auto Traffic, unfortunately, does not work as a regional carrier, that sometimes citizens need to get up at five o'clock in the morning to come to Topol, to have for example. the process of leaving or something. The additional problem is also the notary, or public notary, because he already, and we only have one public notebook for Topola and Rač, has about 10 items a day and we currently have appointments even for March next year. Since we expect that the Constitutional Court will very quickly declare itself about the Law on Public Records, I would ask the Minister of Justice that if these amendments come here before the MPs, there is simply an amendment to the Law on the seat of the basic courts and that, because of all these parameters and above all the availability of justice to all the citizens of the Central Forest, consider and propose to the MPs that Topola be given the basic court with the judicial unit in Raca, in order for the inhabitants of this municipality of justice to be available. Topola and Raca have more than 42,000 inhabitants together, and I find this request completely justified. I would use the time to ask another question to the Prime Minister, because unfortunately, from the Minister of Agriculture, I did not get an adequate answer to my question – when will the law on anti-urban protection be found before the National Assembly? In response, it was said that the Ministry of Agriculture is not responsible for these matters, so I would ask the cabinet of the Prime Minister whether the Ministry of Emergency, the Ministry of Emergency, or if a third proposed law? This law must come urgently before the MPs, because, unfortunately, from year to year, we have more and more damage than the city, and now we simply do not know the responsibility, who is to blame for not obtaining anti-building missiles adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9798	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9799	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport, the JP "Roads of Serbia" and the Republic Roads Directorate, and concerns not maintaining the road route from Mionica to Ravna Gora. Namely, on the slopes of Mount Suvobor, on the site of Ravna Gora, a historical-cultural memorial complex was built. It was funded by the SPO, a memorial home was built, a monument to General Mihajlovic, the commander of the Yugoslav Army in the country. Electricity and water have been brought in, but it is very difficult for visitors, who are growing each year and their number has been measured for tens of thousands, to reach Ravna up, given that the road is in very poor condition. The road was paved 15 years ago, but it's not being maintained and especially since the heavy rainfall this year is very damaged. The collapse of this route is greatly contributed by a large number of heavy trucks carrying a rock from the quarry along this road. I must point out that this road is very important and practically the only link with the rest of the world for the locals of the Mountain, Strugannik, Kostunica, Brajic and other villages along this road. The holes, the damages, the slides are very pronounced and this time will soon be impenetrable. I must point out that along the road is the village of Strugannik, where Duke Zivojin Mišic was born. This year we mark 100 years since the beginning of World War I. We know what a significant role the First Army commander played in this military conflict, and it is practically impossible for a large number of tourists, visitors, respecters of Serbian tradition to visit his memorial home. Also, in the follow-up of this road route, there is a monument dedicated to the members of the Ravnogor movement, which was the first, not only on the ground of the occupied Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1941, but on the ground of Europe in general, raised organized guerrilla resistance against the Nazi occupier and all of them, practically, with severe torment or were prevented from getting acquainted with this significant part of our history. I would like to remind you that it was in the Serbian Parliament that the Law on Equality in the Rights of the Two Antifascist Movements that existed on our country's soil during World War II. It is an obligation, both legal and moral, to repay these people who have given their lives and fought bravely to free our country and have been a great encouragement to other peoples in Europe to face the Nazi occupation of their countries organisedly. Here, once again, the appeal on behalf of the tens of thousands of people who also go to the Straight Mountain every year in May, as a kind of pilgrimage, and want to show that injustice has been done to these brave people who have not asked for anything from the state and have all given it, that this road route, I mention once again, from Mionica to Ravna, which is being rehabilitated, reconstructed, patched up the impact holes, that in those places where the erosion took the asphalt, the asphalt has been re-established, that complete and horizontal and vertical road and traffic infrastructures along this route have been restored and brought into a state as it was 15 years ago, when this road was paved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9800	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9801	Thank you. My question today is addressed to the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Justice, or the Minister of Justice himself. For more than a month, it has been a law enforcement strike, which has often been banalised in the media by the fact that as one of the main reasons for the lawyer's strike, the issue of the flat-rate tax on lawyers is one part of the reason that lawyers have contributed to the general suspension of work. The basis for flat-rate taxation and the accounting of contributions from lawyers in 2014 has been enormously increased, which is not in line with the country's difficult financial situation when the work of lawyers and the scope of their work is far less and because of the difficult situation, due to the reduced paying power of citizens, but also because of the introduction of new judicial professions, such as notebooks, perpetrators, etc. So, one part of the lawyer's request, which is strike, concerns the reduction of the base for pausing taxation, but what is the backbone requires of the lawyer is and concerns certain provisions of the Law on Public Records, Transport of Immobility, the extraparnical procedure, as well as the oversigned signature, manuscripts and transcriptions, which are adopted in this Assembly, because lawyers believe that this is directly affecting citizens' rights to legal personality and peaceful enjoyment of property. We believe that the Law on Public Records, the Law on Transport of Immobilities, the extraparious procedure and the certification of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts are unnecessarily and inappropriately added, but will be decided by the Constitutional Court, restricts the autonomy of citizens' will, their right to have property, the right to protection in legal matters belonging to the judicial authority and the threatened right to legal protection in general. I think it is completely out of line with the Constitution obliging citizens to dispose of their assets exclusively and only in the form of public-book records and that these documents cannot make up as they could by now with lawyers. In addition to this legal work, which is very important for the protection of fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of citizens, I would also add what is very often reported in the media on the strike of lawyers, which are tariffs for notary services, which are inappropriately high, not in line with the current financial situation in the country and the payment possibility of citizens to compensate, i.e. for the work of notaries and salaries. My question concerns, first of all, the minister of justice. Will he be able to put aside all other reasons and still receive authorised representatives of Serbia's legal chambers for discussion and, not only accept them for their purposes, but to try with them in good faith, starting with professional, not other criteria, to resolve this issue instead of threatening lawyers on strike for obstruction of justice? I also refer to the Prime Minister the question, if the minister of justice does not act in line with the proposed one, whether he, encouraged by the letters of the lawyer organisations from Europe, will favour the representatives of the legal chambers in order to find solutions to these problems that are not small, which do not benefit anyone, and I think that with one conversation that is professional, not political or other, respecting the reasons of the profession, there is a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9802	Thank you. Last reported, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9803	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that some opposition MPs today asked a question from the economy and gave me a cream for the question that I have prepared today for the Government of the Republic of Serbia so that, in such a way, with some comparison, I explain to the citizens of Serbia everything that has been going on in recent years and why we are actually in this economic situation, because if those who are now asking questions to this government, they have ruled the previous ten years and managed Serbia's economy in the way they have led it, and let's say by asking questions from one of the previous ones, they have shown that they don't even know what business is, and how companies in the world run and run the market. I absolutely understand why we are in this economic situation, because the question someone asks, what does the government intend to do about the "Fiyat" and their situation is so absurd...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9804	Excuse me, who are you asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9805	I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You'll see it's connected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9806	I can't hear you because of an MP yelling, I can't hear who you're asking?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9807	The government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9808	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9809	So, uh...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9810	I can't hear you because of the MPs who talk loudly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9811	Here I will ask them to pay attention, because this is an important thing in Serbia, meaning, economy, economy and the lives of our citizens and employment, the most important issue is the present and most important issue, and thank God the Government of the Republic of Serbia with President Aleksandr Vukic, this is every day being devoted. The funny question is, what can the Government of the Republic of Serbia do in this situation where the "Fiat" is? And what was the government of Boris Tadic doing for "Ju-es style"? Why did "Ju-es style" leave Jellyzara, why did he leave Serbia? It was also market business and no one asked such a question to the government at the time, because the opposition knew at the time what market business and business meant and knew what it meant when the steel market was at risk. The government of the Republic of Serbia cannot regulate the world's automotive industry, regulate the market situation in the automotive industry, nor should it think in such a way as to subsidise anyone who works at all. I claim and say that this is what is said in the EU and that subsidies in the economy should be reduced, subsidies should be reduced in this way, rather than let those who are able to operate in a market way. What did the U.S. government do for Detroid? What did the government of Russia do to buy their car outside Russia's borders, anyway? So does the opposition ask such a pointless question? Of course he's not. The state of Serbia has done all it could to "Fiat" do positively, to have good conditions, even cheap labour compared to what is in Italy, etc. It is further at the management of the "Fiyata" to enable it to work. Yesterday, Mr. Vukic visited Smedereva. It's an important issue to solve. "Esmark style" whether to come or another strategic partner. The PKK is building a factory in Smederev that will be completed by December 7th. New Finnish investments are announced in different others. The question arises which investments? Here's your investment, Johnson Electric, the other day in Nis, UAE, as much as we talk about, "Etihad" is an extremely good and great story for JAT and it happened thanks to the work of this government. A 55% rating here makes someone nervous, because what has to form a new party and name the party when Alexander Vukic has a 55% rating. For free and a new name, it'll be hard to cross the census. It's necessary, and it's done, that's what I'm going to say here for the record. It is necessary to eliminate Alexander Vukic from Serbia's political life for some to return to Serbia's political life. Is it by beating his brother or sending him a message in Belgrade or by saying stupid things like now talking nonsense about what the economic situation is like? That's what those who were in charge of the state for social benefits, which nobody ever does, and they didn't develop the economy, they didn't develop agriculture, they didn't develop...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9812	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9813	My question for the government of the Republic of Serbia – what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to find a strategic partner for Glazezara "Smederevo" as soon as possible, in order to remove the issue from the Serbian citizens' budget and burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9814	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović and Mladen Grujic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session, in addition to the representatives of Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljević Bošković, Minister of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment, Aleksandra Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Boraar and Social Affairs and Bratislav Gasic, Minister of Defence, Attending and: Nenad Ivansevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Danilo Golubović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment, Bojana Todorov, Assistant Minister of Trade and Telecommunications, Tatjana Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Agriculture and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Croatia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170 and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 94 on Working Clauses of Public Contracts, Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol with regard to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, on the other hand, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Veterinary Cooperation. Would Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9815	Good afternoon, I am particularly pleased that today we can present to Parliament a convention, I hope we can confirm it together. It is a convention that can help, not only to introduce order, but also to have higher quality and work and protection, the safety of workers who are employed in travel companies. I must admit that the need for this convention has come to an early stage. A memo I have found from the Independent Trade Union of Serbia since 2006 shows the need and desire of people who are employed in travel companies to ratify such a convention and to establish a system based on such a convention and to introduce a system in what is called the work of travel firms. It is also important that, together with the Ministry of Labour, we have prepared a convention like this and today we present it to you, MPs. We're here to answer all the questions, and what I think we need to know and what this convention is going to bring us is a few things. The convention ahead of us, the Convention on Labour Clauses of Public Contracts, officially called either the 94 International Labour Organisation Convention, should help, therefore, apply to those contracts where at least one contract apartment is a state, local self-government, or public authority. It also obliges all those who, of course, accept the Convention, and I believe that we will ratify that convention, obligations that must also be met by travel companies to their workers, but also to those, which is the state, if on one hand the public authority, which invests in a particular project. That means the salaries have to be paid regularly. That's one. Two, safety at work must be compared to all the standards we have already accepted, and often not, workers must not be employed in black and this convention recognises those companies that have employees. Regardless, therefore, whether a company is registered in the APR, and if it does not have an employee, such a company will hardly be able to participate in a contractual relationship where the investor is a state. So we're slowly trying to put order into what's called the work of travel companies. I hope that will lead first and foremost to an increase in the safety of employees at work. What we noticed in the previous period is that projects are often delayed. Where late projects are being delayed and paid to workers, whether they are performers or subcontractors. Also, this convention does not apply only to performers, it also refers to subcontractors. They're all covered by the operation of this convention. I hope there are questions, I'm here to answer everyone, and I sincerely hope we can ratify this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9816	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Dr. Jankov Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9817	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will at first, since I have never had the opportunity to do so before, nor reason to commend the Prime Minister, or Vice-President of the Government for one reason, to say the fact that I have received an answer to the two parliamentary questions I have referred to your ministry. One and the other concerned the impasse in the construction of the first Žeželjev Bridge in Novi Sad, and the other asked me a question concerning the problems that arised after the construction of the bridge at Beška. I received a detailed answer, I would ask the Minister, if it is possible that today through the discussion, since the topic is close to this topic that we are talking about, I get an additional answer about the Beška Bridge because by the end of the month it was supposed to be paid to the performers and it was reportedly the reason that Bajatovic did not jump off the bridge, right? Let me ask you why we're late for construction, or...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9818	Ambassador, please return to the topic, but with the Minister we will
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9819	... that it's well in the dark.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9820	You're not in the dark. I've read the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9821	... The rest of the works at the Beška Bridge are not finished. Another thing about this convention, I have to admit that it has several elements that are somewhat controversial primarily about how to enter the procedure. This convention was passed, or adopted in 1949, 66 years ago, and you yourself said in the opening statement that it had been required to enter our legal system before. However, it is somewhat unusual for a 66 - year - old convention to enter the congregation procedure according to an emergency procedure. So why should this convention further contribute to the number of laws entering the congregation procedure by means of an emergency procedure? If a law has to enter the deadline, although we might be able to discuss it, is it necessary that something that is ratified in the world by a serious number of countries 50 or 60 years ago enters the congregation procedure by an emergency procedure? I don't think there's any excuse. On the other hand, as far as the very form of the convention and its translation is concerned, I have serious grudges. Is this an archaic speech from 66 years ago or an ignorant translation? I don't know how else to explain it, and please, dear vice president, try to help, Article 1 point v. says - this convention applies to contracts that meet the following conditions, please listen carefully, to construction, to change and repair or to destroy public works. So, I put the emphasis on – destroying public works. This is Article 1 and please tell me – how will this Convention be applied if the subject matter of the Convention is referred to the destruction of public works? So, what's her essence? In the English version, we're talking about decommissioning, but disassembly of buildings, not public works. Some official will apply this convention. He will read the Serbian version. How is it possible that someone did not pay attention to this inaccurate translation? It's not about any member. It's about Article 1. On the other hand, this Convention becomes an integral part of the RS legal system as is any other legal convention that is ratified under Article 16. The constitution becomes part of the country's legal system. I would ask you, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, which part of this convention regulates some matter in a new way without already being regulated in the RS legal system? Can you say for any area to which it applies and that there are no provisions in the area already regulated by domestic legislation, even more high quality and even more detailed? We have the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Public Procurement, the Labour Act, even this law on the restoration of flood-damaged areas, the Labour Protection Act, the Public-private Partnership Act. These are all laws concerning the area and I have found no provision in this Convention where what you say, or what the interpretation of this Convention says, is quite inappropriate, says, providing an opportunity to form an inter-resor working group that would be tasked with forming a list of road and construction enterprises that would be selected black and white on the basis of the level of fulfilment of legal obligations towards their employees and state. What kind of travel companies are related to the 1949 convention and the situation in our travel economy, and what is not arranged in the butter economy and will be arranged in this Convention? You have the obligation of the state to pay within the time limit of travel companies, so I ask you, how many states are required by these travel companies, and what is there in the current procedure as a distraction for these obligations to be reconciled? What obligation when it comes to this company to workers does not exist defined in the Labour Act and other laws? So, is there an obligation for the employer to pay the employees? There is. Are they allowed to work on black? They can't. Do they have to meet all safety requirements at work? They have to. You've seen it, you've been going around these companies, which are from the ground, which is from the air, and you've seen that it's not happening, but there are laws. It's not a problem in conventions. On the other hand, I don't understand what was now a direct cause for this convention to enter into an emergency procedure? We don't mind this convention being one part of the legal system and maybe fixing something, but I'm saying, with an inadequate translation, it can only create a mix-up in application and regulations like this, because it has a priority in some way. She's a new element in our legal system. If we're going to apply it by destroying public works towards it, then I'm quite convinced that it can become a problem in our legal system, no special benefit. Please, if possible, I have read the Convention three times, believe me, I have not found any provision that regulates an area that has not already been arranged, and on the other hand, Articles 1 and 4 in particular 1 are quite vague and inaccurate and will not be possible to apply them, so please do something that this Convention has at least a translation that could be applied, because this is how many problems will exist. Our parliamentary group has no problem supporting this convention and voting for it, if you think it will contribute to improving the position of workers in the road economy, although I do not see how it will help to improve the position in the road economy. The position of workers in the road industry can only be helped by this government in a way that creates the conditions to be sufficient for these works, that these works are adequately organised, not as they are now organised, that the works begin on time, not as the works are now beginning. I'm looking at a number of papers being opened in October because public procurement procedures are very threefold. I'm not talking about national projects, I'm talking about local self-government projects. You've had a year or so to complete some infrastructure projects. No, they couldn't do it. No one stood in their way except maybe a bad law on public procurement, and they got into these jobs these days. It would have been very conveniently respected Deputy Prime Minister, we were sitting right at this distance a month ago when you said that the reconstruction in Obrenovac would be completed by autumn. The autumn has arrived on the 21st or 22th, you know it and at what time, but the reconstruction in Obrenovac has just begun, and they haven't even dried up. What's Mr. Blagojevic doing to you? Were you or were we right when we said that he wasn't competent for the job and that he wouldn't do anything in that area and that at least until winter, part of the house, because we know that everything won't be restored? We're very unhappy with how this job is going, and most of all, it's dissatisfied with those people who are still under tents, and you already know by yourself when you leave the house they're pretty cold in the morning. Imagine people sleeping in unconditional rooms during this period. So when will the restoration in the flooded areas really begin to the fullest extent, when will the Prime Minister, as promised, visit those areas? He said he'd be here every three days a month, never showed up in Obrenovac again. What's going on with the renovation of those areas anyway? This has to do with this convention, because it's about the state as an orderly, so please give an answer that concerns citizens of all Serbia, especially people in flooded areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9822	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9823	No matter what things have more, less or less to do with the convection, I'll answer anything you asked. At first, we'll start at the end. I invite you to visit the Obrenovac together because for many things you are wrong. I'll explain, and what's wrong with the helicopter? Are you afraid of heights? All right, we'll go to the normal car to go around Obrenovac, see what's going on with the roads, see what's going on with the other roads, because you can't just say -- nothing's done and nothing's done, because it's not like that. As far as the roads are concerned, and as for what was to be done from the roads to the 1st of October, it's over. These calls that you are now talking about, public calls are being opened to slides and bridges that can be made in winter. As for houses and money, it's paid and it's done. Graduation is to go from the ones that are completely destroyed, to the very least. There's a lot of solutions people complain about. They send these solutions to the Commission, to the Central Commission of the Government, and people are again on the ground to see, because mistakes can happen to those who evaluate themselves by local self-government, but also how it works and how people can't happen to sleep in cold tents or anywhere, and we all agreed. My call stands, to visit together and see it. In the beginning, you mentioned the Željev Bridge and Beška. Beška will be working for another month because when you get, and in the previous explanation you get, when it was done in winter. Unfortunately, it wasn't done in quality, regardless of a good company that did it, which it did. The work will have to be extended for another 30 days. I expect that in the next 10 to 15 days we will be together on the Željev Bridge and mark practically the beginning of the work that stood for two and a half years, because Žeže was not working. Unfortunately, in 1999 it was a long time ago, when the virtually Jell-O Bridge was destroyed. Now to return to a convention that I consider to be very important. Whether you mention a lot of laws that define or help us to talk about everything we talk about, and we're talking about travel companies that we all have to agree to have problems, it's not just a problem on the side of the country in terms of whether the state paid or not. Let me tell you right now, the state has no debts to the toll companies. This Convention allows us to deal in one place with quality, to deal with one target and increase the safety of work, to somehow multi-sectorally embrace what we now see, to be a problem in travel companies. It was also known from before that the problems in non-payments, keeping black workers, whether companies that got their jobs in normal tenders, public tenders, but now labour inspections are on the ground, and it turns out that people are black, so it happens that a company that has three employees, quite an official company, which is somewhere in the APR there gets a job, then takes subcontractors where actually there are employed tolls. On the other hand, there are travel companies full of workers who actually need to do the job. This is why this Convention may help us, firstly, to make order, to establish a system that, regardless of the laws that you have mentioned, I agree with you, and the Law on Public Procurement and all other laws exist, but our goal, namely, is to try to distinguish between those who are tolers and who work and those companies who take care of their workers, whether in terms of security, whether they are paying their debts to the state and paying their wages to their workers, respecting their deadlines and the quality of their work and those who are practically and often just there to probably extend their deadlines, to take money from the state, and thus do not end projects and suffer everyone. That's why it's the so-called story. Black and white lists. It will not be determined by any man, but it will establish criteria. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Trade, means everyone will be in that task force, of course, and trade unions, all those who deal with this business, so we'll make the criteria of how we actually share these companies with those who are white or black, with the possibility that and those who are black when they start to behave properly, how they should behave today, and not behave, they get the opportunity to switch to that white list. It's the essence of the whole story why we went through an emergency procedure. Because the convention, you know, I brought it here, and I asked it to be an emergency procedure, even though it's my opinion that all the laws have to be in public debate, it's the Convention, it's a desire to sit down as soon as possible and see what's going on, because the biggest problem is right in the butter business. That was the reason. I'm saying, it was my decision, maybe I was wrong, but I believe the reason we wanted to do it was an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9824	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9825	Dear Madam Parliament Speaker, Mrs Mihajlovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the situation in the travel industry is very inconclusive, and therefore the confirmation of International Organisation No 94, on the working clauses of public contracts, aims to help solve the problem of travel companies, improve working conditions, pay more earnings for employees, including bonuses for earnings. The travel economy of Serbia has been brought before the collapse of a poor policy that has been under way for the past few years, only since you took over this portfolio are more positive trends, which is for support and praise. In fact, of the 26 road companies that employ about 15,000 people, the majority are in a blockade, and the main reason for this is government debt and local self-government for previously executed works. The debt of the state is estimated at about a billion euros. The problem is that a small number of our companies can get bank guarantees to carry out larger infrastructure operations, such as Corridor 11, only two of our firms have managed to get bank guarantees. On the other hand, travel companies can't get jobs either because they're in a blockade. The solution is for domestic companies to integrate with each other, to gather, to isolate those healthy parts of these companies to find strategic partners, but all of this requires state assistance, as well as banks and the Development Fund. We know that the passages of the vessels are housewives of all regulated states, and the value of the roads in Serbia is about 5 billion euros, and for their regular maintenance on an annual basis it is necessary to provide about 50 billion dinars. However, due to lack of funds, more than 80% of the roads in Serbia are in very poor shape. For example, a share of the road from Ub to Lykovec, which is 12.5km long, is built for four years. The contractors promised to finish it by November this year. However, given that the deadline is 10 times even shifted, we are skeptical about their promises, which you have surely convinced yourself of several times by going around this particular section when you realized that there are not enough employees or machines and that the companies that have made the commitment not to work on the planned dynamics. There is a real danger that nearly 15,000 workers of travel companies will lose their jobs and that the lives of traffic participants will seriously be questioned. It is therefore necessary to confirm this agreement in order to enable it to form an inter-resor working group that would be composed of representatives of competent ministries, trade unions, associations that gather construction enterprises, which will aim to form a list of road and construction enterprises in Serbia that are divided into those that meet the envisaged legal criteria and obligations to their employees and to the state and other ones that, unfortunately, do not and will no longer get a job from the state. Some companies will therefore be blacklisted, as you pointed out in your previous statements and in the justification for confirming this agreement, if they do not pay workers, if they have workers who are blacked out, if these companies have not paid their obligations to workers, if they have not fulfilled their obligations to the state, if they do not satisfy the quality of the work, if they have not taken care of safety at work or if those companies have participated in any affair in which fraud or corruption has been proven. I would now move on to these two other international agreements, which is to confirm the protocol in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community, their Member States of the other side, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. It is known that on July 1st of last year, Croatia became a full member of the EU and that the customs regime between Serbia and Croatia has no longer been applied since that date, which was defined by the CEFTA Free Trade Agreement, since Croatia has automatically stopped being a CEFTA member. Such a customs regime has been replaced by a customs regime between Serbia and the EU that has been defined in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with our country. Under conditions defined in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia is in a more favourable position. As with the rest of the EU, we no longer have customs duties on exports of industrial products from Serbia to Croatia, and the same applies to most agricultural and food products except for only four categories of agricultural and food products, for which there are export quotas, which are sugar, wine, beef and trout. On the other hand, the duty-free regime for Croatia has been completed since last year. Exporters now have to pay customs duties on most products and this customs duty now ranges from 4% to 13%. I must point out that our country with Croatia has concluded around 20 agreements and protocols in the most important areas of co-operation, starting with normalising relations between the two countries, to free trade. In Serbia's total exports to the world, last year Croatia was top ninth, and at the level of imports from other countries to our country, Croatia ranks tenth. So she's our very significant external trading partner. In Serbia, more than 200 Croatian companies are now operating, i.e. daughters of companies and their presidencys, and this is the result of the really intense participation of Croatian companies in privatisation processes in Serbia. Unfortunately, on the other hand, we must point out that only a dozen Serbian companies are present in Croatia today. So it's hugely disproportionate. Croatia is undoubtedly important to our partner in both political and economic terms, and bilateral and economic relations are based on a trade trade characterised by foreign, continuous growth starting in 2001, practically from the establishment of diplomatic relations. The total exchange was about $900m last year. This economic co-operation can be further enhanced. There's a lot of space, and it's often pointed out in the chambers of commerce and businesses of our countries and ministries, that our economies are complementary, we used to be in the same state. In particular, this co-operation can be improved in the areas of energy, then in the meditative industry, trade, construction, especially in the IT sector, then in agriculture. The investment of Croatian companies on the Serbian market is about 650m euros, while our investments in Croatia are insufficient and they amount to only 45m, so they are not even a tenth of what Croatia has invested in Serbia. What are the reasons for the weaker presence of Serbian companies on the market in Croatia. So, our country's Chamber of Commerce analysed and concluded that the unfinished privatisation processes of our economy, that there are numerous non-tariff barriers, that there is no favor, as I say, according to the goods and investments from Serbia, that there are often unfair competition between domestic companies on our part, and yet on the Croatian side there is an expression of discrimination between Serbian companies in the privatisation of Croatian companies. Of course, with the engagement of our government, our chambers of commerce need to be made more transparent for Serbian capital in Croatia in order to reduce this huge disproportionate proportion that exists in investment investments. Therefore, a significant increase in mutual trade is possible and one solution would be for the two countries' economic policies to be directed towards exports and for a joint appearance in third markets. As for this third proposed veterinary co-operation agreement with the Republic of Albania, I will give a slightly wider framework. Given that the agreement should contribute in general to the expansion of co-operation in the area of agriculture between the two countries and in general on the economic and economic agenda. Therefore, the aim of this agreement is, in addition to the co-operation of the two countries in the veterinary field and the desire to obtain a legal framework that should contribute to overall co-operation, to increase this volume of exchange of agricultural food products and, above all, to create conditions for increasing our exports to Albania. I have been in Albania several times, I have seen that there is an interest in our products, that there is a possibility for them to be placed on the Albanian market since it is a very modest domestic production and that there are mostly foreign products in shops and industry and should certainly be encouraged to our exporters and our investors to operate with Albania. Bilateral free trade signed between Serbia and Albania took effect on 1 August 2004, ten years ago. This was the first significant step in improving mutual relations after a long period of rest, and a real boom in trade was created in 2007 when CEFTA was established, a year earlier, and a regional free trade zone was enabled. It was only during the first year of CEFTE, a trade exchange between Serbia and Albania that nearly doubled, with 40 million US dollars in 2006, that volume increased to more than 80, almost $90m in 2007. Then comes the 2008 and 2009 global economic crisis, which conditioned a small impasse, but again in 2010, the exchange reached $139m. What characterizes this exchange is that it is unbalanced, unbalanced, because of this sum, of 140 million US dollars, 90% represents our exports to Albania, which is good, because there are few countries with which we have a positive external trade balance and of course we should take advantage of these opportunities for even greater exports and for balancing, because EU experience has shown that the best external trade exchange between countries that have balanced balances and balances. By the way, Albania belongs to a group of medium-sized countries in Serbia's trade and exports, out of 172 countries where Serbia places its products, in last year, Albania ranks 24th at the value of our exports. Of the 204 countries from which we import in the past year, Albania is 58th place, it ranks in the order of countries that are less significant in the trade in goods when it comes to import. Our total export value to Albania in 2012 was about $90 million and I say we regularly record a significant surplus in business with Albania. What is the chance to increase exports to Albania? It is that in this country the conditions of business are changed structurally and that it facilitates the business of foreign businesses, that the growing demand for agricultural machinery, for gajevine machines, for various industrial and other materials, but a major problem for establishing quality economic ties is the issue of transport of goods. Nevertheless, Serbian firms can successfully operate in Albania. I will point out two examples, it is the Jagodina cable factory and the Belgrade-based company Vexpo, and let me just say that Serbia's economy has been regularly participating in fairs in Albania since 2003, that our products and services are being represented and that it can only contribute to increasing trade in goods and increasing our exports. I would like to say that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group in voting day will support the adoption, ratification and adoption of these proposed agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9826	Anyone else want a word? We don't have any reports in the system. Here you go, Mirjana Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9827	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, there is today a very interesting Law on the application of Convention of International Labour Organisation No 94, which regulates the working clauses of public contracts. From the debate so far, we have also been able to see open questions as to whether the application of this Convention and the adoption of the law on it contributes to improving the work of travel companies and all those companies where the state appears as an employer. In any case, I believe that the adoption of this Convention is of great importance and that the SPS in Voting Day will vote for the adoption of this law, and that the Convention helps improve relations in this area, I would first of all see it in two directions. One is harmonisation with all international agreements and European legislation, in the area of legal regulation in every respect. This Convention has been adopted in Europe long ago, as we have seen since 1949, and we did not miss it in a certain sense, that our laws in the field of regulatory work, employment relations, job positions, payouts, be an obstacle to the quality of the laws governing these areas and these spheres in the field of labour relations, but I believe that the adoption of this Convention is at this moment strengthening these relations, is one of those dots or link to the adoption of a total of laws in the approximation of the EU, and I think that, in this direction, Serbia should continue its activities and that as many of these laws, the rules in the field of international organisation regulated by the international labour organisation, but also all other spheres of legislation that have been allocated to us in the process of approaching the EU should continue in the coming period, offices. What remains as a task is that we not only adopt these laws, but try to apply the laws. I think there's a very Serbian problem, which I would put a little bit more emphasis on this time, and I'm sure all the people in the ministry, that the ministers, that the overall government will tighten responsibility in the next period in that direction. Activities have been an reinforcement in this regard for the past few years and for our own sake, because I believe it is a responsibility to ourselves, but also in the process of approaching the EU, especially the signing of the Brussels Agreement. So, when it comes to these things and when it comes to the position of the enterprise in the travel economy, what is specific to them, it is that these are the state funds that are provided for the performance of these works or funds from abroad. The state appears as an employer, conditionally said, and thus is more responsible for the state's relations with the companies that work in this travel economy, being better, more efficient, more quality. The work of these companies on the ground, i.e. workers working in them, requires our special attention, given the very harsh conditions. The work is done in the external conditions, whether it's an awful warm period over the summer, that shift jobs are quite difficult, to use the entire working summer day, that these temperatures can be over 40 degrees, that a lot of attention must be taken to the protection of the health of those people who work there, with appropriate work breaks, etc., etc. On the other hand, you can now work on new technologies and in winter conditions, sometimes, which are once again exposed to particularly harsh climate conditions, working on bridges especially causes difficulties, etc. So I think we need to take care of it. In this time of transition after 2000, we have a little forgotten what is called work protection and health care, and so that segment within government affairs, as well as the works of health care, has been neglected in a certain way, so that the part of health care that deals with the protection of work in these previous years has been slightly cut off. I think that Serbia, on the way to approaching the EU and the arrangements in a new way of relations and some of the jobs it is doing in that part, must take into account more, these relations must be activated, and it cannot simply be left to businesses, the free liberal market or the free will of the employer or the direct contractor. I believe that the state must have a more effective regulatory and efficient impact, just to protect the health of workers who work and protect their rights. An important segment of those rights is the payout time. But, again, when it comes to the payoffs themselves, it's not just about the toll companies, it's about the problem in all other areas of work, and I think it's about overall behavior in terms of the Labour Act and overall relationships with employees and workers. I would like to point out particularly great importance here that during this next period in all these parts, especially since we have now adopted a new Labour Act, all these elements are truly respected and that we are responsible. But, first of all, it's about the state, and I'd say here that, even in the application of this convention, it's a very important role for the union. The union and various trade union organisations that exist today in Serbia must adapt as soon as possible to new market conditions, speeds and efficiency, which must meet all labour challenges, so that they can mate and be an adequate employee representative. So, and this is one opportunity to, by analysing the obligations arising from the application of this Convention, the trade unions are updating both their affairs and their arrangements. It is mentioned here that what the application of the Convention itself further allows is, in fact, the creation of this inter-resor working group. It only increases the speed, responsibility and efficiency of its existence and its work. It could have existed before, it's not controversial and no one's stopped us from doing it, but with this convention and this law, we have a legal obligation to do it. This can very much help our travel companies in their positioning in the labour market. On the one hand, the existence of a list called the white list of companies that respect all the laws will also be encouraging for those companies that could be found or which will be on the blacklist, because, probably in the need to come to work and seeing that the lack of respect for the law does not actually pay off, they will seek to improve their positioning on the internal labour market. What I also think the state can help these companies and what does not result outside the scope of what the state can influence is to help in their positioning so that they can be the bearers of large businesses, encourage them to join one another, so that they become larger, more consortiums, conditionally said, which could adequately compete on the international labour market. We cannot be satisfied if our travel companies work and get jobs only in Serbia. In this case, they will be able, if done through a tender documentation, such as now, to be contractors of only a certain number of works, and according to international rules, if they do not have certain certificates, the holders of large-scale transactions and contract holders must or may be merely undertakings of international importance, from the international market, which the certificate holders have. Let us remember that in earlier times in the socialist Yugoslavia, we had companies that were doing very large and significant work on the international market and we have to help them, the remaining businesses or those who are just about to form, to go out to the international labour market. I'm going to say a few sentences on this occasion that are important for further editing of the area in our Balkan area. Namely, by extending the EU and adopting our efforts to join the European people's family, applying and extending the areas of work that must be regulated legally, expanding the areas of international co-operation between Balkan countries that once made up the single country of Yugoslavia, but given our geographical mutual orientation but also the guidance in each other's respect, I think that the agreements that have been increasingly applied or adopted in this area lately need to contribute precisely to making this area much better deadened, because of this, we will have all the peoples in this area much more benefit. When it comes to today's debate that is ahead of us, there are two agreements that I consider very important. One is an agreement on co-operation in the veterinary area with Albania, where the agreement was signed years ago, but now the law should strengthen and make it possible. We know that cattle trade is developed in all neighbouring relations with countries, but the Law on Veterinary Affairs allows, above all, the protection of animals, the protection of their health, the protection of their health, the provision of healthy trade, that some diseases are not transmitted uncontrollably and so on, and in that sense, provide, when all these conditions in the veterinary field are met, a wider exchange of goods that is of multiple benefit. It is good that it is also with the state of Albania with which we haven't had developed co-operation and procedures in Albania itself I think we should welcome them, i.e. they also contribute to a good development of relations with Serbia. I'm going to say a few good sentences in terms of the commendation of this agreement that is being signed with Croatia. It stems from its own necessity, as the Republic of Croatia is part of the EU, is no longer in the application of the CEFTA system, but appears under new agreements. The regulation passed by this law allows legally envisaged and regulated co-operation in the area of agriculture between Serbia and Croatia. When it comes to both agreement, of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for the application of these agreements, to adopt these laws and give an additional incentive and any good signal that similar agreements of this or some other content in the coming period will be adopted to a greater extent, at a higher speed, that when it comes to laws, their adoption and their application will be significant, then we will indeed all have an effective and orderly state with which not only these companies and workers in Serbia will be satisfied, but in general, we will be able to see as ordinary citizens that the state operates in a quality and efficient way. In this regard, I am personally voting in favour of these laws, and I repeat once again that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will contribute in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9828	Thank you. We're moving on to the MP's list. The word has been made by the People's MP Mariana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9829	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal for a bill confirming the Protocol under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the European Communities and their Member States, on the other hand, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. The Republic of Croatia became an EU member on July 1st 2013. Since that date, the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn from the CEFTA agreement and has taken over the trade and contractual relations the EU has with third countries. Croatia's entry into the EU has led to some changes in the external trade regime. These changes relate to the export regime of our products to the Republic of Croatia, which since 1 July 2013, has become identical to the export regime to any country in the EU. Also, the import regime is changing, so goods of Croatian origin are treated in customs terms as EU goods. The protocol was signed in Brussels on 25 June 2014. In accordance with the provisions of Article 14. Protocol, the date of provisional application is the first day of the second month after the date of signature. Accordingly, the Protocol shall apply from 1 August 2014. The protocol defined that Serbia and the EU provide each other with additional concessions for agricultural products, based on quantities traditionally realised in agricultural trade between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia between 2009 and 2011. Additional concessions are agreed through preferential quotas. Import quotas are available to all EU members, not only Croatia, and the export quotas of the Republic of Serbia relate to the EU as a whole. The Protocol also refers to technical harmonisation due to the new Member State and changes in preferential rates for certain agricultural products. Changes in exports of products originating in Serbia include an increase in the quota for the export of carp, the approval of a duty-free quota for the export of prepared and preserved fish and an increase in the quota for the export of sugar. I would point out that negotiations and the signing of the protocol are common practice after each enlargement of the EU. The adoption of this law stemmed from the need to bring our legislation into line with EU procedures and the continuation of European integration, and therefore the SPS parliamentary group supports the adoption of this law. Also, the SPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of a second law today on the agenda, which is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Veterinary Co-operation. The agreement was concluded primarily in order to facilitate trade in animals and products of animal origin, to increase trade in the agricultural sector, and to establish stronger business links between representatives of the agricultural and food industries. First of all, I would like to say that the adoption of this agreement and how significant a step forward in regulating this area is, above all, because traffic with neighbouring Albania is improving and allowing for more complete traffic control. Unregulated trade is causing financial damage to the state, and what is most important is also a danger to people's health. The agreement addresses several issues of importance for cooperation in the veterinary field, creating conditions for the co-operation of competent veterinary authorities. Co-operation in the veterinary area is given a full legal framework, and thus conditions are met for other segments of co-operation in the area of agriculture. The agreement should also create a basis for establishing business links between representatives of the two countries' agricultural and food industries and increase the volume of the exchange of agricultural and food products. In recent years, there has been a shift in bilateral relations between Serbia and Albania, although relations have been intensified at all levels. Economic co-operation is still at a relatively low level. Trade relations are based almost exclusively on trade in goods and are regulated by the CEFTA agreement. In 2013, Serbia exported to Albania agricultural and food products worth $32.7m, wheat, corn, fat, oil and spice mixes and made a surplus in this $28.4m exchange. The Republic of Serbia is achieving a surplus in trade with the Republic of Albania and our interest is not only to keep it that way, but to increase the surplus. A small geographical distance is a fact that is in our favor, and this agreement should contribute to the larger and easier placement of our products on the Albanian market. Accordingly, we expect this agreement to move in trade between the two countries and significantly reduce existing procedures. It is obvious that the pace of approaching the EU, as well as the World Trade Organisation, will also depend significantly on Serbia's trade co-operation with neighbouring countries, so that the fact that the agreement also has political importance, i.e. it should contribute to the pacification of the region, should not be ignored. For Serbia, the Western Balkans region is more than four times more significant as the export market than the import market. CEFTA countries are a very important market for our country. While a modest exchange is being made with Albania, a gravity model measuring the difference between potential and real trade shows that Serbia has room to increase these exchanges, especially since Croatia became an EU country, and Serbia has become a leader within CEFTA member states. The application of the agreement should encourage further liberalisation of trade in agricultural and food products and ensure a more quality supply offer. A good export strategy would lead to normalisation of economic relations and the creation of new external trade potentials. The economic co-operation of the Western Balkans is certainly Serbia's strategic interest, and a fully expected push in this direction and for co-operation with the Republic of Albania. In order to ensure quality and smooth work of veterinary and customs authorities and to ensure traffic control, we need continued co-operation from our competent authorities and competent authorities in the Republic of Albania. In the previous period, the co-operation of competent veterinary services in both countries was intensified, international veterinary certificates were agreed, certificates for export from the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Albania for slaughtering animals, cattle for slaughter, fresh beef, fish and fishery products, processed pet food. The import of consignments from the Republic of Albania has so far been subject to international veterinary certificates, including horses for temporary and horse races for tow and breeding, fish and treated skins, and the certificate for imports of fishery products is in the two-state harmonisation phase. The Agreement should contribute to the development of scientific and technological links, as it provides for annual expert meetings and exchanges of regulations and professional publications relating to the veterinary field and providing mutual assistance in the production, supply of the necessary means to combat diseases and to treat animals. It is important to point out that the application of this agreement will also contribute to the security and preservation of both animals and citizens' health. Quality timely and effective control is a necessary condition, in particular if the adverse effects and inconspicuous adverse consequences of imports of hygienic invalid products are taken into account, and in particular the infected and affected animals. Given all these reasons, and in particular that the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Union of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Veterinary Cooperation will allow traffic control and greater access and exports to the Albanian market, as well as the adoption of the Protocol with regard to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and the European Communities and their Member States on the other hand, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, the obligation of the Republic of Serbia on its way to the EU will support the adoption of both of these draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9830	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9831	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I must admit that I feel a little bit, in a way, and a shame that only after 65 years, as long as this Convention of the International Labour Organization has been passed, we are adopting. The right to tell you, I don't understand why this hasn't been adopted before, although perhaps as we go back to history, we would have seen it. Let me understand during that socialist period when the worker was put on a particular pedestal and when we really had a system where factories were given to workers, or social enterprises, when we had, then I understand that we even had better arranged workers' rights and protection of workers than perhaps the convention itself. Later on, everything that came into existence, and when we started to introduce capitalism, and especially this liberal capitalism, I must admit that I don't understand, if we were seeking certain civilizational assets, why didn't we adopt this convention? Let's just explain to people, it's a relationship between a state body, a public enterprise, and an employee and a worker. So it's not even the private relationship, it's simply the state's attitude towards the worker. If something like this had been brought in, that is, adopted in 2000, it might not have been passed in 2001, after which the worker was completely disbursed and the companies sold out. Perhaps Mrs. Mihajlović, who otherwise explained this convention, would not have had to tell us today about travel companies, which were completely destroyed, where workers were thrown out into the street, which were completely destroyed in each segment, that they could not even meet some basic conditions to participate in tenders, so by the wave of foreign companies here were given the opportunity to make roads. Our companies and our workers went to work with foreigners, even though we had extremely large toll giants, excellent businesses. Perhaps because of the lack of one such convention, we have experienced today precisely that today we are trying to revitalise it and in some way restricting maybe the state to ever think about passing such a law, as was the 2001 Law. I remind people and anyone who survived that so-called. The transition period and the robbery privatisation, you could have thrown a worker out on the street and not explained why he got fired. It's a good thing we're adopting this today. It is good to limit such arrogant people, especially because of a segment in the convention itself that refers to subcontractors. We're used to destroying our businesses here in that way that we've been taking for contractors, in certain segments, various private enterprises, very suspicious, which are, and you're going to ask the employees of these companies, because they've been chasing the belly after bread, because they didn't have to provide family existence, they've accepted the worst conditions to work with these privates. I remind you, take only these companies dealing with building security, for example, our public enterprises. Ask these workers what their conditions are and how they survive, how their salaries are, so you'll come to the conclusion that something like this is really inadmissible, and since it's about the client, it means a public company, which requires a particular private firm to provide it, as if they can't hire themselves someone who could be involved in the security of the company, but hire a private company, they bring these people who do the worst possible things for some 18 or 20,000 people, risk their own lives. If it were a convention like this, it might not be allowed. I hope, for example, that this particular segment is the most relevant and that these subcontractors, or people who deal with the security of our public enterprises, will no longer be able to exploit workers. I must admit that we here have forgotten what humanity means in the desire for a terrible profit, which is normal and legitimate. Otherwise, I'm a supporter of a capitalist arrangement, but you can't forget something called humanity. It's simple, man is a living thing. We treated people here as goods, as objects. You could have said, say, a girl who wants to get a job that she can't if she's planning on being pregnant. That, unfortunately, was tolerated. I see that there are now certain, not certain things being introduced here, but it's simply being incriminated as a crime, which is very positive, but that's where some order is being introduced. I see that in many segments of the state, I especially have to commend the tax administration, as well as the inspections of the work that have taken place by combing various businesses, where workers are not reported, that these companies are closing down. Let's have one undeclared employee, you didn't follow the law, please, when you get a closed place for 15 days, you'll come to your senses, and next time you'll report everything on time. It's just that maybe that order has to be introduced, and that's why I feel, once again, shame, that after 65 years we're adopting something that's a civilization's flow, which had to be adopted much earlier, but unfortunately we've survived everything and everything, it's good, it's ever better than anyone ever, and of course we'll support the adoption of this convention in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9832	Since no one else is on our list, I'm asking if maybe someone in article 96 wants to use their rights? Nobody. Thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint Single Search on the draft laws referred to in points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. We move to the next agenda points, which are points 10 and 11. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from these two points, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The parliamentary groups have already reported their representatives. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group and a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9833	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr Ljajic, we now have a joint single search into the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the Assembly. One proposal for a decision was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group and the other by the DS parliamentary group. This is the first time that Zoran Zivkovic and I have to vote against the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Assembly board. I must point out because of the way our intervention so far, on this subject, was understood by Mr. Babic. Allow me, Your Honor, just to explain this position of ours and suggest one thing. Namely, when the Committee of the Republic of Serbia was established, when we established this assembly and after that, the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I supported all the proposed candidates and candidates for members and members of the National Assembly committee, but we then, above all, ordered the President-in-Office, Mr Babić that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly prevent Mr Zivkovic and myself, as independent MPs, to propose ourselves to be candidates for members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Article 23 of our Rules of Procedure says - MPs' groups propose candidates for members and deputies of board members in proportion to the number of MPs from the total number of MPs in the National Assembly. So, the Rules of Procedure are not intended to propose ourselves, as independent MPs, but at the very beginning of our joint work, at this meeting, we have proposed to Mr Babic, given the number of this SNS parliamentary group, that Mr Babic, as head of the parliamentary group, is running for us, because he has the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure, to participate in the work of the Committee of the National Assembly. Our argument was respected by the presidents of the National Assembly at the time was that the majority of parliaments, such as this, should show an additional sense of democracy for the work of the National Assembly, to provide people's MPs who do not have the right to run, to work on the committee of the National Assembly, just to remind you of the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Babic then, and I remembered it – okay, we'll see, it's fine. Of course the MPs are hired, the Rules of Procedure have some shortcomings, but we can correct other ways and what happened? In six months as it has passed since the constitution of this assembly, Mr Babic, for example, as head of the largest parliamentary group here, who has the opportunity to propose other candidates for board members, here I am, for example, it would not be a problem for me, it is not for the six months neither me nor Mr Zivkovic suggested that we work actively on committees of the National Assembly. I then concluded the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly next – that Mr Babić and the assembly majority in this assembly do not want our active participation in the committees of the National Assembly and the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, then I was of course wondering, and why they do not want our active participation in the work of the Committee of the National Assembly? So, we're going to have to vote against this proposal this time for reasons of principle and consistency, and if you'll allow me to honor the president, I'd just like to supplement our proposal from last time, above all Mr. Babic, who I see is listening very carefully now. We are interested in working on all committees of the National Assembly, but we are particularly interested if you think about running for active participation in the Committee’s work. We are particularly interested in Mr Zivkovic and myself to be active members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, the Committee on the Financial Budget and the Control of the Spending of Public Funds, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Culture and Information and two other committees are the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Security Control. Since so far Mr Babic has not proposed us as head of the largest parliamentary group here to actively participate in the work of the board, it was necessary for the President of the National Assembly to take advantage of the opportunity now, these five minutes to remind him of something that had already been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9834	Thank you. I will give the replica to Zoran Babić, because it turned out from your discussion that he is on the agenda, and I will first explain that we have a joint debate on points 10 and 11 where the promoter and Borislav Stefanovic, whom you forgot to mention, because you were on the DS list, so it is natural that DS on whose list belongs to one of the MPs she has run. That's an explanation because you also spoke to the President of Parliament. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9835	I thank Madam President, and I don't mind when I'm the subject of the Assembly, so I love it and it's part of my job description. What I would add to your really great finding is that someone who shared pre-election values, I guess shares and post-election values, so it would be most logical and most normal that when you're on that list to list you afterwards and propose for membership on certain committees. However, what I would like to remind Mr Pavicevic, but also the Serbian public, that according to the Rules of Procedure which did not write to the SNS, was already written by the ruling majority by 2012 and the former regime allowed every MP to participate in the work of all committees of the National Assembly. It is not prohibited for any MP to be present in accordance with his own affinity, thinking, wanting to participate, to participate in the work of every committee responsible, to be unable to vote, of course, but to discuss, to try to convince other members of the board, which I think is much more important than the presence or presence of the vote itself, and I see that the representatives of the former regime do not attend, or do not vote in committee meetings. As for one SNS input on the number of our parliamentary group, the number of our parliamentary group has not been determined by Mr Pavicevic. They set voters, set people in Serbia in the elections believing in the sincerity of SNS and our coalition partners. In the end, the feeling of democracy, of course the feeling of democracy is not only verbal and ritualistic, but there is communication. The Serbian Progressive Party has also been identified by committee members, but also by assembly delegations, offered and accepted people from other parliamentary lists just as much as it wanted to show true power.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9836	Thank you. On what basis and why did you stand up? (Vladimir Pavićevic, from place: Article 104) You have no right to a replica. Only Mr. Zoran Babic had the right to reply, because he was mentioned 200 times. He said, "Dear Mr. Pavicevic, let me explain." Nothing more, I really follow and make sure no one is offended or denied. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let me try to explain. I think I'm right. To try and convince you that it's exactly what I'm calling about. You can't convince me, I'm not here for persuasion. I accept the arguments of all MPs. You have no right indeed, but pay attention to the next item of the agenda and you will use it skillfully, I do not care for you. No one's answering any more than the MPs. Does anyone in article 96 want to come in? Nobody. Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. Moving to the next point. You have received a motion for a decision taken by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic NDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. We have one reported. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Proposer Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Thank you. One reported. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9837	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify that I have applied for the word on points 10 and 11 concerning the establishment of committees and our actions on committees. So I didn't sign up for the word on this agenda point. I can only take the opportunity to say one more thing to Mr. Babic, but as far as this topic is concerned, I haven't applied at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9838	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Since there are no MPs' lists registered for this point, according to Article 96, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on the motions for a decision in the voting day. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Đerić, Zoran Babić, Dragan Šutanovic, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Dejan Čapo and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, except for the amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo on Articles 11 and 17. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9839	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 1, my fellow Members and I, where we propose that Article 1 which reads - this law regulates the way and conditions under which the export and import of arms and military equipment is carried out, the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance, transport and transit arms and military equipment, the procedure for issuing permits and the authority of the competent authorities in the implementation of this law, and we have proposed, by amendment, to delete the point of this law and add words - and prescribe penalties for violations of the provisions of this law. This is an amendment of a technical nature, and I can also express my satisfaction that the Government has heard that two of our amendments, which are of a technical nature, are contributing to the quality of this law, because the criminal provisions are a special chapter in this bill, and it is necessary to follow the system and structure of the law in the case of the law. in Article 1, which regulates the subject matter of the law, indicate that the subject matter of the law is also criminal provisions. The amendment is in line with the unique methodological rules for the making of laws and other rules, and therefore we are pleased that these amendments, although technical, are accepted because they will contribute to the quality of the law itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9840	No one's answering for a word anymore. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The People's MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9841	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, I'm glad you're here today. I'm sorry that you weren't when we had the principle debate because this is one law that originally comes from your ministry and your ministry will be responsible for implementing this law in the future, although somehow by instinct when it comes to the trade in military equipment and weapons everyone looks at as defence minister or police even though they're not directly in charge of implementing this law, so it's good that you're here today. Our amendment to Article 3 was a wish to introduce, in definitions, Article 3 of the definition, what is contained in Article 20, which is non-commercial imports of military equipment and weapons and our wish was to add words to the point 13, which refers to imports and exports of arms and military equipment for non-commercial purposes and for its own purposes by a natural person, owner based on heritage, gifts or purchases, or if the conditions for obtaining, holding and carrying arms and ammunition have been laid down by the RS regulations on arms and ammunition. The government has not accepted our amendment because it says that this law treats only commercial imports and exports carried out by legal entities and entrepreneurs and that it is not the subject of this law of imports made by natural persons, especially when the relevant public documents of the competent authority are carried out in special cases and that this definition should therefore not be found in general terms. Our opinion is that because this law speaks of the issue, Article 1 states that this law regulates the way and conditions under which the import and export of arms and military equipment is carried out, prescribes procedures for the issuing of authorisations or the authority of the competent authorities in the implementation of this law. It does not speak or define that it is only commercial imports or exports and that it only deals with legal persons and entrepreneurs, rather than natural persons, so that we consider that the argument is inadequate and that it was better to accept our solution, to insert this definition here and that some of what is mentioned in Article 20 of this Act, paragraph 2, which we have provided in accordance with this amendment, is to be deleted, to be accepted. We think the law would be better quality in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9842	The word is Dr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9843	As you pointed out, the whole spirit of this law, when it comes to importing and exporting arms and military equipment, refers to legal persons and entrepreneurs. It does not treat the imports and export of weapons carried out by natural persons, except in special cases, which are cases defined in Article 20, and we believe that your amendment is satisfied that in Article 20 we are talking about a special procedure for the import and export of weapons that perform natural persons for non-commercial purposes, when it comes to gift, inheritance and that these persons may be allowed to apply the contract or the solution to the gift, i.e. by means of a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9844	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9845	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted to Article 7 an amendment which is the essence of adding a new chapter 7 and 8 to Article 6 which is the Ministry on its official website to publish a copy of the register referred to in Article 1 of this Article which contains the name and seat of the legal person or entrepreneur registered in the register. The copy of the register referred to in Article 7 shall be updated no later than eight days from the date of the change in the data to be published in the copy. Namely, article 7 regulates the entire registration. We have proposed the addition of this article to section 7 and 8. starting with the current practice of the ministry to publish a list of persons registered for traffic of controlled goods. We believe that this issue should be regulated by law, and in this regard we propose this amendment, or the addition of Article 7. In this way, it is provided to a reasonable extent, taking into account the type of activity, transparency, but also the public's control regarding exports and imports of arms and military equipment. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that if the full register with names and seats of legal persons is located on the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications site and is regularly updated, there is no reason for the legal text to be additionally burdened. We believe that it should be known to the promoter that obligations can only be established by the legal text. As long as it is not prescribed by law as an obligation to be made out of the register on the site, any such publication is a matter of good will of the ministry and of those who work in the ministry. As soon as there's no obligation, there's no responsibility for the accuracy and awareness of the data. Such a responsibility must exist, especially in this matter. We therefore believe that it is necessary for the publication of the data to be established as an obligation and that such an obligation cannot in any way burden the legal text, because only by law can it be prescribed. In addition, this obligation guarantees a higher degree of protection of transparency and legality in work, not only by the ministry but also by persons involved in importing and exporting arms and military equipment. That is why we urge you to reconsider this amendment and accept it in order to introduce greater legal certainty, as well as transparency in work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9846	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen submitted the 9th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Internal Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9847	Thank you. Article 9 defines the Ministry's obligation to notify competent foreign affairs ministries, defence issues and home affairs monthly of persons enrolled and deleted from the register. as well as denied enrolment requests. Our intervention in Article 9 is to add a new position which says that the Ministry is three months old to submit a report informing the committee responsible of the National Assembly of persons entered and deleted from the register, as well as of denied registration requests. Our wish was for the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs under Article 49. The Rules of Procedure also discusses issues of international co-operation in the area of criminal and military co-operation, transport and transport of weapons and ammunition, production, transport and transport of arms and military equipment. The government's explanation for not accepting this amendment suggests that information on this is on the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications website and is available to all interested persons. However, the Committee of the National Assembly cannot discuss something on the Ministry's site, we need to get a report, enter the procedure, and then the Committee declares it. We believe that this amendment should have been accepted, because it would have obliged the Ministry to draw up a report once every three months on persons who have been entered or deleted from the register, and above all, on legal persons who have been denied the application for registration. There's no place, no public register where you can see who's been refused to be registered. We think it is very important that this amendment be accepted so that the National Assembly will receive the report in addition to the relevant ministries, and that, if there is any doubt that someone for reasons other than objective nature was not allowed to enter the register, that it could be discussed in the Serbian Parliament's competent committee. That's why we think it's very important to accept this amendment. The government itself, in its reasons for refusing amendments, says that there is this register as a public document, but there is nowhere to see who was rejected, so we think that the Assembly is a place, besides the competent ministries, where a report is to be delivered, and then to discuss it and why someone was rejected and whether it was done for objective reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9848	The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9849	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Madam President, I want to support this amendment on behalf of the DS. I think he's extremely important for a number of reasons. It is true that on the website of the Ministry of Trade there is a list of companies that work, but that is a thing that is not enough, that is well explained by counterpart Djurisic. But what's also true, it's that there's no such thing on your site and we don't really know who didn't get the right to sign up. To make it clear to Serbian citizens, as well as to people who deal with this matter in layman's terms, that someone could even trade arms and military equipment, he must register. This is the main assumption that it would appear on the market of these goods, and whether it will later receive a final export or import licence depends on several ministries and this is a subject that is being discussed in itself. If you had the chance, and I believe it is, in one prominent newspaper, one journalist, who can't say he's respected, these days he's running a campaign explaining that the state has not allowed the export of arms and military equipment to some hundreds of millions in a country that isn't under sanctions. Unbound whether it is true or not, it is an incorrect question, you know that and me, but it is very important that Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see who it is, that they do not have to know English in order to go to UN Resolution to find that name and analyze what it is, to translate various texts about who illegally traded in Liberia or the Ivory Coast, or where, but that we can also, as MPs, know who really does, because it happens that the most important members of the family are candidates on election lists here from those people who can't register themselves. I don't think you have any reason not to accept it, there's no real reason why someone would be against it, who's in state affairs, to see who hasn't, conditionally speaking, laid the groundwork so he could work later. In the next article, I'll explain to you what I think is also very bad, because I think these people should have a second chance, not just within two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9850	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9851	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, this amendment could perhaps be accepted as being a little more precise, but this way is quite imprecise and therefore I believe that's the reason for the refusal. Otherwise, I want to believe in the good intentions of the bearer. Why? Because here it is required to submit a report informing the National Assembly's committee of persons enrolled and deleted from the register, as well as denied registration requests. I don't mind saying it was defined to say the name and last name of whoever was rejected, but the report itself can mean a lot of other things. Let's just say why someone's been rejected, we couldn't all get that here or that could be given to the insight, because maybe it's some information that's important for the security of this country. So, if this might have been more precisely written, I would have personally been willing to vote for something like this, but this is really unacceptable, and it's just impossible to accept something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9852	The word has a minister, Dr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9853	It is true that so far you have not had the opportunity to see on the site who has been rejected because no one has been rejected. There were no such cases for the simple reason that of the 186 permits that were issued we are trying to be maximum flexibility, to correct the shortcomings before we definitely make a solution. Indeed, some major problems in this regard, perhaps Mr. Sutanovac knows better, but I haven't had them for now. As far as the records are concerned, we have not even had the opportunity to delete someone from the register, and only now does this law give us that possibility. The third thing, we monthly, not three months, send reports to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so monthly, not three months. Honestly, we have calculated that this is one formulation that allows us to ensure full transparency by having absolutely all relevant data on the site. I wouldn't mind delivering this to the Committee, but it seems to me that this transparency is provided by sending monthly reports to the relevant ministries and having absolutely all the information on these reports on the site.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9854	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm obliged to give you an explanation before I ask you if you want the Assembly to plead. First, you have called on Article 104, which allows for a replica if someone is insultingly pleading to another MP. First of all, it's not true that I didn't want to give the People's Parliament to Dragan Sutanovac, a replica. I was just about to give him a line, but you called in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I've been looking at your MP group the whole time, and I've been looking at you, so I haven't looked at the speaker's direction at all, so I can either support or not support that speaker. Also, I may have broken the Rules of Procedure for not giving a warning to Mr. Sutanovac who threw and interrupted the speaker from the bench, and also Mr. Sutanovac warned me not to comment and not to ask the MPs to speak on the subject. So I really don't know what your group of MPs want at this point to hold me as chairman of a grudge. Do you want the Assembly to plead for the injury? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Here you go. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9855	Mr. Chairman, in the Assembly, I don't know which member he is, the forbidden address of each other personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9856	Mr. Sutanovac, he never spoke to you personally, he spoke to me speaking of you, but he spoke to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9857	The person in question said - Mr. Sutanovac. You don't have a visual problem, you don't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9858	Well, when you throw and you interrupt, I can't hear what he's saying, because you've been throwing all the time, distracting the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9859	Well, you have a problem, I noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9860	But I don't want to talk to you now. Please continue your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9861	I don't know why you're flaunting. You gave me your word, and now you're breaking up with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9862	You asked me and I have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9863	I'm not asking you, man, I'm finding a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9864	He's finding out? Well, then go ahead and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9865	What do I have to ask you when you don't know how to answer? So, Mr. Minister, this joint position from 2008, we're in 2014. Nothing prevents you from going to the EU and saying: we are the first to pass the law that they will prescribe from us. So I am telling you that this is a step and even in relation to the EU lists you yourself said were not unique for the whole EU. So we're relative to the population of one of the largest countries in the world of arms exporters of military equipment. We're not going down anymore, but in the last two years it's been catastrophic, but we analyzed it in 2010. So you are free to perform in the EU as someone who has a vision of how to improve this thing, to go to a higher level, and not to happen like now, and we have read today that some ammunition from "The First Partisan" is currently being used in Iraq by those against whom the whole world is fighting and against which it is with full law, to say the struggles of our country, the political method. That's what the media says today. So, I remind you, good intentions exclusively and only to allow you to act as a resolute minister who objectively does not affect currents. You know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9866	Mr. Sutanovac, you've run out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9867	I haven't run out of time. This isn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9868	I gave it to you by the replica, which is what your colleague asked for, but proceed if it's not a replica, if it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9869	Whenever I come to some discussion, you interrupt me, you tell me something, some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9870	I'm sorry, I was warned on time. I gave you my word on the line, because it was your colleague's insistence, but if you're speaking by amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9871	Did you get the impression I wasn't talking about the amendment? Can't you hear me again? So I'm talking about the amendment all the time. I think this amendment is great. You don't have to accept, it's not controversial, it will work without it, but you will personally be in trouble for things that you personally cannot influence because I know how it works in the system, especially in a situation where you are practically in the government of good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9872	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9873	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by MPs Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica and joint MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9874	Mr. Minister, to thank you for this precedent, I haven't had the opportunity for my government colleagues to accept our amendments, whether they're good or not, since we obviously don't always talk about arguments here, but we're talking political or party. Article 11, I'm going to try to explain why we think he should be deleted. So right now, the two biggest jobs that our defense has and industry is concerned with technology transfer and "nou hau" or knowledge. Both of those jobs came in a, uh, conditionally speaking, spontaneous manner. In a conversation about buying some weapons and some military equipment at the moment, there was the idea of potentially transferring knowledge and making factories outside our country's borders. This member, as you have suggested, is forbidden from any of the traders or producers to initiate the discussion or negotiations before he gets approval from your ministry, i.e., I believe, above all from the Ministry of Defence or even from foreign affairs, because the job we had as a problem and which was an argument on the Defence and Security Committee concerned foreign policy. He had nothing to do with the technology transfer. So, the country that was an importer of our knowledge and our technology is a country that is not under UN sanctions, is not under EU sanctions, is not under any sanctions, and for some of these reasons, the foreign ministry has prevented the job, which has subsequently been implemented. So, I have an understanding that you can't say that a job or contract can be concluded before approval. I note, all weapons exporting factories are state-owned. I don't count uniforms, some vests, etc. All these factories are directly dependent on the government, or you are the directors of these factories, and it is difficult for that director to initiate the procedure unless he has the Ministry's approval. But here you have a situation where a delegation of some of our factories goes a long way, to Rio, to a famous arms and military fair, and there they meet with a delegation from Indonesia and they say – we would like to transfer how you make sphere powders and that moment our delegation says – we can't talk about it. It doesn't make any sense. It makes sense that they can't close the deal, because after that you can burden the state, because the state won't issue a permit, so it's a problem for everyone. But that they can't start some negotiations, talks, that they can't offer what they can produce, because, if we don't lie, Serbia in the defence industry doesn't have technologies that are such that they can threaten our security, these are mostly things that are produced in a large number of countries around the world and the question is whether there's a good mood from the country towards Serbia as it happened, let's say, after talks with President Buteflicia in Algeria. We are from the sympathy of Algeria towards Yugoslavia and to us, today, and tomorrow, hopefully, we get a big job. The same job was easy to get some other countries, because it's not something other countries don't know how to do. As such, I think this member will slow you down completely and put you in a position to depend on some high-ranking Serbian Army officer or some foreign policy reference officer or even someone at the Ministry of the Interior. What does that mean? That means someone can be privileged. Here's the thing that's unclear right now. What's going on with the software transfer? How will someone offer software, how will they offer their product? So, he has to ask for approval for everything he makes so he can offer. There's another member here who's got a situation where instead of being allowed except for what's forbidden, we're introducing a different thing -- that everything is forbidden, except for what we've approved. So, your work will be completely devastated and slowed down, because they'll call you to ask – excuse me, and why I can't offer what I've produced, and then you'll have to address the ministries that need to give consent to transfer that technology, which, by the way, isn't technology of the 21st century, but is usually about countries that have a distinct political sympathy for us, so that's why we're doing big jobs with them. I remind you, we also talked in Algeria, Azerbaijan, Libya, Kuwait, about the transfer of our technology. These are all countries that have a high degree of respect and that are now going to put you in a position where at some fairs they can't talk to us about the things we can offer. Believe me, at these fairs, all the other countries of the world are just waiting for us not to, because there's someone who can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9875	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9876	One of the reasons for this decision, and to insisting on the Ministry of Defense, is precisely the case you mentioned, when a big deal of arms exports and military equipment was arranged. Meanwhile, exports to the country were banned and the dedicated industry, as you know, came into major trouble. We've had strikes and protests of workers, and then we've been looking for a solution to get out of that situation. Of course no conversations are forbidden, that there is no agreement here for any conversation, especially when it comes to participation in different fairs. Here it requires consent only to start official job negotiations, to avoid all these consequences that we had, in case you mentioned them. The other thing is, we were looking at it comparatively again. Neighbouring countries, which have nothing to export in this respect, such as Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, do not have this provision and that is correct, but countries that have developed a dedicated industry, developed technology, which they can export, such as Belgium, Germany, the Czech Republic, have these strict provisions. I can tell you that the EU experts involved in the drafting of this law were three EU experts, one from Portugal, the other from the Czech Republic, the third from Belgium, all supported this provision, as well as an EU expert from the United States who eventually carried out the expertise of the entire law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9877	According to the amendment, the word again comes from MP Dragan Sutanovac, then Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9878	I'll remind you that about four years ago, we bought certain weapons from the commissioners in Germany, in infantry. It is the best weapon in the world, and for the Serbian Army Special Brigade. It's going to be shown on this parade one of those things we got at the time the Army was gearing up. The German government has an export licence agency. We're under no sanctions. We've waited a year and more days for the job to be realized. At the same time, Belgium took out the same special brigade machines, so the best machine guns and they arrived record fast. So there is a proportionality in the legislation of countries and the EU. Germany is the most rigid in this matter, but I'm telling you something else entirely. If you pay attention and you take, anyway, I'm sure you have, the transfer of Serbia's technology goes exclusively and only to friendly countries, high-friendly countries that have emotions from Yugoslavia to us. So we're not selling our technology to Japan, Germany, China, etc. We make it clear here that we cannot negotiate with them until they approve of us – who? The question is, who's supposed to approve? To approve some general who does that job at the Department of Defense? It's too banal to bring it down to that level if you, and I know that you do, are exactly the countries you're close to, promote our defence industry, and then stop and say, wait, we can't negotiate this because it's not up to me, it's up to someone who's supposed to bring a recommendation or not. I'm telling you this because it's going to stop you. Needless. So you in the government can make a decision that you can't access any contract signing without the government making a decision to approve. But you here forbid negotiations. Negotiations are not binding. Negotiations are like getting married, so you can negotiate until marriage for years and not be any of that marriage. But no one can forbid you to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9879	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mr Ljajic, a respected guest from the ministry, I think it would be good to think a little more about whether it is possible for the Serbian government to accept this amendment proposed by Mr Sutanovac to the Serbian Parliament. I've been reading carefully everything that's come to us, and here's the debate. For example, as a man who isn't in this profession, but is trying based on some information that he has to reason on some logic, it seems to me that there's logic here on Mr. Sutanovec's side and here, let me try and make a little contribution here. It is, in fact, the position of Article 2 of this proposal of the law, which reads: "The Ministry is now referring to the request for agreement on negotiations by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as the authorities of the State Administration responsible for national security matters in the matter of discussion and decision on a request for approval for negotiations", which Mr Sutanovac now spoke of. Let's put aside this part behind the comma, which says -- as well as the authorities of the state administration in charge of national security matters, because here and in principle, we had one objection, why not put on what exactly is the body, that there is no dilemma, whether the Office of the National Council or whether it is the BIA? Let it say BIA, for example, that would be fine. Mr. Sutanovac, in his explanation, stated very precisely why this position of Article 2 11 is not good. Among other things, I don't think it's good, and I think it's compared to the basic reason that you cited in the reasons for passing the law. For example, you say – the main reason for the adoption of a new law in this area is the harmonisation of our legislation with new EU rules and procedures. I'm now taking this as a major principle of coordination and then reading, for example, I've already read your point of view of Article 11, and I'm now reading Mr. Sutanovec's explanation. He's fine with the two things that matter to me. It says – a process in which five state bodies decide on the principle of inter-resorial harmonisation without any legal deadline will completely stop the export activities of Serbia's defence industry in the field of technology transfer. Is that true? Yeah, for example. I accept this resonation of Mr. Sutanovec and I think so. I'd like to hear an additional explanation. Then Mr. Sutanovac adds here - Article 11, that's the same member of the bill, makes it difficult and slows down the possibility of making new deals, and therefore he submits an amendment to Article 11. I then return to the basic reason that you have announced here, harmonising our legislation with new EU rules and procedures, I accept that as a basic reason. I also understand that as some kind of fence of all those areas we've been going back in the last year, like. the issue of justice, such as the issue of freedom of the media. Some shows are also banned here. You are building on it and you say – no, on the contrary, we want to submit a bill that is in line with EU rules. I wonder, then, Mr. Ljajic, if you're focused on this principle, you won't be bound by anyone, for example. for the "Imprint of the Week", for the asphyxiation of the media, etc., why don't you fully accept this orientation and do not accept the amendment of Mr Sutanovac, because I think, in addition to this amendment, this bill really wants to be in line with EU rules and procedures and that you will get support from not only us MPs, most of us here, but also from the European Commission as the EU institutions, which measures certain results year by year in the relevant areas, so that you do not happen to be as a representative of the Government in one of the areas for which terrible regrets are given? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9881	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9882	I have to admit, there are a lot of arguments for and against this amendment, with me being here on the side of the government that refuses this. Why? Because you really need to take care of who you're going into negotiations with. When you talk, especially now in the era of speeding up a variety of wars around the world, where we have hotspots wherever you turn, we really need to take care of who we're going into negotiations with and how we do. I understand, no one is holding back, and even someone who would send a letter of intent, it's completely normal. You can talk on the sidelines of every fair meeting, it's not a dispute, but when you enter negotiations, an official state delegation enters. You can't joke about that already, because you're going into the negotiation process. In order for a job to happen, you have to take good care of who's on the other side and you have to make sure that when you get into negotiations, you bring that job in some way in a satisfactory way, that there isn't and that the state of raving may be in some situation. That's why I'm more in the position of this amendment being rejected. I repeat, there are reasons, of course, and to accept this, but we have to take care, especially today in the really crisis situations that humanity is in, with whom we enter into negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9883	Thank you. By amendment, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9884	Mr. Djukanovic, you either haven't read this whole article or...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9885	Don't, please, replica. You should also talk to me about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9886	I understand the need for mystification and that we now need to mystify it, but one day when you sit in the cabinet you see that your system doesn't work because you have a pebble in every place. This is the whip that's holding your system back. It is not true that only state delegations can talk or negotiate. Everyone can negotiate, anyone with technology. So, there's a company that makes a alas, or develops an alas, it's a private company, it can talk about selling its technology. It's not a state. It's an ad act thing. I'm saying, it wasn't readable. How can the state embarrass itself? So, you now give consent to someone to negotiate and he enters into negotiations and then comes to the third position of this member who says: “The agreement received does not oblige the Ministry to issue a licence for the export of technology. “ So, a man has the ability to work, he can’t negotiate, go back to Serbia, you don’t know what time you give him the consent to start negotiations, he enters negotiations, he comes back, he finishes the job, and the state says he can’t? For what? What's the point? In doing so, the one who entered the negotiations has already been registered. So it's a company that's registered, it's been through all the triage, it's certainly negotiating with a country that's not on sanctions, because it doesn't make sense to talk to those who are and you're completely in college and you have a problem tomorrow that's gonna trip you up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9887	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9888	Just because I read the article very carefully, I just made those arguments that I made. I agree that this could block the dedicated industry. There is no dilemma, but, on the other hand, if you would allow it, without all these checks that are otherwise required, and finally only the Ministry whether or not they will issue a permit, you can risk it in today's world and really put the state on a pillar of shame. We don't trade conditor products here. We trade weapons here. You know, how do you know who's on the other side until you check it all out? After all, perhaps the foreign policy situation is just such that it is not desirable for a company from here, or perhaps private, to the very state after all the consent you get to export that weapon, or technology. That's why, because of the risk that exists here, I'm more on the side of the Ministry, or the government for refusing to do this. I repeat, I hope sometimes there will be more peace in the world, so we won't have any problems like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9889	Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9890	Thank you, Madam President. The Serbian Progressive Party will not support the amendment to delete the 11th, although some of the same opinions were in our parliamentary group, even though Mr Poscurica has proposed such a similar amendment. For the sake of the public, for the sake of demystification of everything that is written in Article 11, for the sake of the people who are watching us and who think that this member of the law will not know what has been stopped in Serbia, I would like to read Article 11. It's a bill of law. Article 1 "Before the start of the negotiations for the export of technology, the exporter is obliged to obtain the prior consent of the Ministry". Is there anything controversial here, asking for the ministry's consent? Article 2 – The Ministry shall, when considering and deciding on a request for approval for the negotiations referred to in Article 1, obtain the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the authorities of the State Administration responsible for national security tasks. Should anyone be afraid of the opinion of the National Security Authority? Should anyone be afraid of the opinion of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior? I don't think anyone who works properly, who works responsibly, does his job honestly. Item 3, not to remain unspecified, not to stay with the conclusion that someone has not read Article 11 or read the law – the consent given does not oblige the ministry to issue a licence for the export of technology. What's slowing down here? Is this where the wheels are put in the wheels? I don't think this is the way to put the wheels in the wheels. Clips in our dedicated industry are placed in another way, not whether a member of this law is required or not, and we believe it is necessary. I think that the wheels in our dedicated industry are placed in irresponsible politics and irresponsible management of parts, as it was done years ago in “Krusik” in Valjevo. What has been obtained, although it has been tried to make Krusik a very successful company by 2012 by successful management, as if honey and milk flowed there, and it seems that honey and milk flowed only for individuals in “Krusik”. Clips in our society, wheels in points not only of the dedicated industry, but also of the entire economy are placed by irresponsible business. It took good will, it was necessary to change the leadership of Krusik, so that only nine months this year the total income increased by 127% and the total expenditure to be reduced by 80% and from one total score to minus to make a company that operates in plus. It took a responsible business to make a difference compared to 2012, when 27 secretaries worked in Krusik instead of production, instead of new products, instead of making revenues, were made only employees in the non-productive sector, and in the financial and commercial sectors worked 126 employees, in the logistics sector 120 employees, 27 secretaries, all the directors had their own drivers, and the general director and the latest, regardless of such and so much loss that was achieved every year and the latest Audi A6, C6 actually, with their sports equipment. A second policy and a second relationship were needed and the defence ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia towards Krusik, making a positive score of 4.6m dinars for the first nine months of 2014. It may not be enough, it may not be a big gain, but compared to the years behind us, the years of devasting not only the Krusika, but also the other dedicated industries, this is a result which is worth the attention and value of support and I believe that in the future they will only add the following figures to the winnings that they will achieve. A hundred times better than last year's period has been achieved. The total liabilities of Krusik companies were reduced by 20%, by nine months by responsible behaviour, by responsible management by 20%. The costs of the team are down 80%. The director can drive in the "Small Octavia", he doesn't need the S6 latest with sports equipment. I don't know what the director's doing with sports equipment. Also, daily expenses, official travels were reduced by 43%. We can talk a lot about Krusik too, we can talk a lot about both the dedicated industry and the SDPR and other companies in the composition and the Ministry of Defence, but also in the composition of other ministries. In this way, by buying and driving an audience of sports class, by making losses, journals, representations, by not investing in development, by investing in logistics, when out of 1,200 employees in Krusik, more than 600 worked in direction, not in production, where it is necessary to work to create new values. In this way, the loss is made and the blinds are placed in the points of the dedicated industry and everything else. That is why I cannot accept that those who, by their actions or inaction within the former regime, made it necessary for governments to have such a situation by 2012, to make it the most important for the director to lead the "Audi S6" no matter what the wages are, no matter what the losses are, no matter what the bad results are, that they say so – now Article 11, where the consent of the Ministry of Defence, MUP and BIA are sought, to stop certain things. With what right, with what results, with what action? What was launched until 2012, except for disorganization, degradation, for everyone except for the directors, who could drive the latest sports classes "Audija A6"? Has anyone asked these people what you do to do it, how much do you spend, what do you invest in? No, it's not. Whether he wasn't interested or were other reasons, I don't know, but I can't accept that someone who, by his actions or by his inaction by 2012 contributed to the situation in the dedicated industry being the one he is now respecting and said that some processes would slow down and that the dedicated industry would stop because of Article 11. It's a bill of law. For this reason, but also because there is no reason why the opinion of the competent state authorities should not be sought and disobeyed, the SNS will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9891	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9892	I'm sorry, I'd like to take a look at the stenographic notes. I understood at the beginning of the speech that a colleague said he would accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9893	No, he called one of the MPs from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9894	This result in Krusik is very encouraging. This government is a hundred times better than the government that was before it until 2013, and the result in 2013 in Krusik is disastrous compared to earlier. So Krusik's been going down since 2012. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to deliver us, and you can deliver to us, in the last five years of 2008, it means six years, how Krusik did business and how many people he employed. Take this in the form of an MP's question. How many people were employed for permanent, temporary and occasional jobs, how much exports Krusika was, when they last strike in Krusik, and we'll get it all very precisely here. Citizens living in Valjevo know perfectly how Krusik works. I'm just saying that if the government comes in this way, I'm afraid that you, Mr. Ljajic, as the man who's done it before, will have to go there to put out the strikes. Let me remind you, they're not even receiving a minimumer today. As far as the vehicle is concerned, I don't know why these vehicles are a subject, I have to admit, I was driving in a BMW car, which was 12 years old, as far as I know, the prime minister is driving in that same car. It's a bigger problem for me when the president's security guard knocks out a Mercedes Brabus worth three million dollars. It's a much bigger problem than driving a director in Krusik. I didn't even know what to drive with, and it wasn't my job. A story about how many people are employed in the administration, so Krusik is a factory that has a serious development that is now choking. "Cruik" is a factory which, now with certain circumstances, has received some money from Emirata to develop something that cannot be done, because the people who are currently running that factory don't know how to do it, but they want to wake up from it one day, you'll see for yourself. After all, if you have a chance to talk to people who are our fellow Krusik engineers, you'll hear it. Please, Mr. Minister, I am really very positive in the desire that both of you and, first of all, producers, the same ones who made the "Last" and the new M-21 rifle and almost finished the "bumbar" in that "Kruik", which now doesn't exist, and the drones that we used to do and the truck in the flag trucks and in FAP, all these people today are looking for your support to sell, not only to produce. Unfortunately, this law will make it impossible for you to be effective. Just someone who doesn't know what the administration is, and that someone probably pours the authorities into the brain, has no problem finishing their ID in half an hour, has no problem getting a passport in one hour, etc., doesn't know what it means that you now need an interrest to get the consent of three ministries. I didn't know, I thought it was the BIA, and now it turns out that the National Security Council should be ambushed. The National Security Council needs to sit down for someone to get the right to start negotiations. You know what, if we had nuclear weapons and I didn't know which country in the world was interested, I believe it would end up at some lower level. So this is just disabling itself. The explanations we heard and the praises about the fantastic result in Krusik, which is falling this year slower than it failed last year, and it's definitely going down, and we'll see that, the people who live in Valjevo and Krusik, we'll hear, I know. I can see that there is a great complacency of those who lead today's Krusik, because they fired the secretaries and I don't know, believe me, because as a serious man and a defence minister, I didn't deal with it. It wasn't my job. It was the government's job, because these people were placed in public places, the government was setting them up, not the Department of Defense. I'm calling you again, and I believe that you heard it, too, and I was just surprised at the beginning of my colleagues' speech, and he said that's why we're going to accept the amendment. I'm about to applaud. Think about it, if not today, by the time you vote, you can convince your colleagues that it will cause you problems. My wish is for industry to work, to have jobs, not to strike, not to be in trouble, in conflict with a regime that is increasingly repressive to them. On the contrary, I want you, as my esteemed colleague with whom I have worked this year, to be someone who will have in this government, perhaps only you, a good result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9895	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9896	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I'd like you as a technical person to explain to me or the amendment speaker to explain to me how this with 27 secretaries is investing in development? One sentence says, as defence minister, I had no obligation to do it, nor did I do it, who is employed, how is employed, on any basis, nor does any car drive, nor does it spend. Nothing. I don't know what the defense minister's authority was then, but how is this development made with 27 secretaries, and how can one company survive if of 1,265 employees, 515 works in production, and 60% works in directorship? It's inexplicable to me. As for banging those cars, you might as well ask your head of Parliament how he crashed a congregation official's car. What remains without an answer, probably because the Minister of Defence did not interfere or did not want to interfere, how has the successful company "Krusik" in Valjev been successful until 2013, for example in 2010, had an unconnected job experience for all employees with all the contributions? Who didn't respect the law? Who didn't pay the contributions to the state? Why did these people who worked in Krusik not have health, pension and any other insurance? Who's responsible for this? Is this successful director from Audi, the sports Audi A6 or the secretary of defense? Who is responsible for not respecting the law, for those people not even having the right to receive treatment, for not having had any pension insurance, they haven't had anything until/since 2010? Who's responsible for such a policy? (Marko Atlagic, from the post: Minister. Minister? Thank you, Mr. Atlagic, for agreeing with my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9897	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger, Dragan Sutanovac, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9898	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this is exactly the amendment that led to an extremely bile debate here in parliament a few days ago. Namely, I considered it then, and I believe today, and I see that most, represented by Zoran Babic, have submitted the amendment almost as similar as I suggested a few days ago, and here we have it officially, that it is completely unprofessional for someone who requests an export licence or for imports to have no time-limit in which that permit can be obtained. Your ministry's obligation is to issue within 10 days. It's an honor to you, as a ministry. We were just talking about some of the jobs that need to be met and the National Security Council, meeting once every six months or, as far as I know, not meeting at all. Since we don't have a National Security Council in this country anymore, we don't have a service coordinator, or a bureau chief, we have one general breakdown in the MUP, which we're looking at through the media, you have a situation where, according to the bill, there's no time limit, except that within 10 days, when you get all consent, consent is issued by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Policy. We felt and felt that it was necessary for them to be issued a deadline within which they had to issue a negative opinion or a positive one. I remind you, it's no wisdom whatsoever. So there is no wisdom. The foreign ministry, we've later defined, you'll see in Article 17, it's based on which it issues its consent. Is this country under sanctions, is it disrupting regional peace, is it in some hostile relationship with us? It can be dealt with very quickly. The same thing is in defense. Could a weapon endanger our country's security? What we sell is on the whole world's market, so we don't lie. It's not something that could endanger our country. We don't have any invisible bombers who could come back to us. All this can be done very quickly. We've set a deadline in our amendment for that deadline to be 30 days. Also, if there is no authorisation, then the government decides on the matter, and that's where we set the deadline of 60 days. I think it's something that's necessary from the point of view of the security of those who negotiate business. These aren't the jobs you have a window in, so a buyer comes along, so you sell him a barrel on the spot. These are jobs where people, exporters, producers, SDPR, invest large financial resources to keep their sales network worldwide. If they invest big money, and they don't have a deadline in which they plan to return it, it's completely unprofessional, let's say, not a decent functioning, or behavior. This same member has been submitted with the amendment and colleagues of Babic. Apparently they pulled what they thought the other day. There Mr. Gasic explained to us that there are deadlines, but in law there are no deadlines. Maybe there are some internal deadlines that no one has to abide by. I urge you to reconsider and I think our proposal is dramatically better than Mr. Babic's proposal. Accept that, because it will be a relief to you, because you will have a problem. No one's going to apply for a permit from the Department of Defense, but they're going to file a motion for you. If you are late, someone in the newspaper, in the media, in the Assembly will ask you, "Why didn't you do it?" To come here and explain to us that some ministry didn't give consent on time, consent can be negative or positive, it's completely absurd. So you're making a commitment to yourself under the bill of law that doesn't have a time limit. Now let's get back to the beginning. This is a country where corruption is allegedly fought a great deal. Do you know what it means a month in this business or 15 days? If anyone wins, they have a discretionary right to get a little faster than this other one. In three days, a 100 million-million-dollar job can be lost. Why would anyone have that right and the possibility of doing it, whoever it is? Let him be the prime minister himself. Which would give him that opportunity. Which he would accept on himself. So, anything that means making it harder, and this is the bill that's been formulated, and I know the situation, Minister Gasic accused me of knowing a lot, I know it's not your idea, I know there's an administration that wants to run systems and past ministers and it's happened before. It's nothing new. So, I'm just asking you to accept this amendment in your interest and the interest of those people who work in production first of all, even those who trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9899	The word has a minister in the government, Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9900	We've practically accepted the amendment when we're talking about 30 days. It is Mr Babic's amendment, and we could not accept this second part of your amendment for the reason that under the Administrative Procedure Act, there is this 60-day deadline. So, all that's contained in your amendment is essentially in the provisions of this law now. It shall be 30 days and 60 days under the General Administrative Procedure Act if additional checks are required.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9901	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9902	Thank you. I think we're having a really good discussion. I don't think it's a good idea for you to rely on other laws in your law. So in one part, you have a situation in which you rely on the Government Act. The government law is passed in the formation of each government. What would that mean? It would mean that when a new government is formed, this law must be changed. The law on administrative procedure can change. So what do we do? Which is why we'd avoid defining it here in unequivocally and don't look at what others are doing. I'd like you to focus on this job because today you're making a decision whether it's going to go faster or slower. It's up to you if you want faster, and if you don't, what do I do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9903	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9904	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some things have been said about fighting crime and corruption. It has also been said - the alleged fight against crime and corruption. You know, and fighting crime and corruption has its own measurable qualifications. If this criticism comes from a representative of the regime during which we were in 87 places in the fight against crime and corruption, that even in 2010 we did not have a strategy against crime and corruption, as if we were living in a very well-organised society, if we had made progress from 87 to 72 places, where we were in 2013, it was a dramatic fight against crime and corruption. If in the Special Court of Organized Crime you have a Special Court for Organized Crime who probably served until 2012 to guard some cases because there were two cases, two indictments were held until 2012, there kept some drawers or kept in drawers, so that since 2012, i.e. 158 indictments before the Special Court of Organized Crime would be filed and 158 indictments confirmed. Now, that's called fighting organized crime and corruption. When such an observation comes from a representative of a regime that has not even had a strategy, it has not thought about it, but perhaps it has had such relations in our society, it is at least hypocritical. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to Article 16. He refers to the position of the 5th member, because as a technocrat, as a technical person, as well as a proposer of this law is a technical person, so I think we can understand ourselves, that as soon as there are no deadlines, as soon as these deadlines are elastic, flexible, as soon as it's 10 days since the last opinion is obtained, and we don't know when we're going to get it, I think that the solution that I proposed on behalf of the SNS and got the support of the Government of RS is, I thank the Government and you Mr Ljajic, where deadlines are not left, as the promoter gives them 30 days, so I don't know how many days, but from the moment of submission it takes 30 days for the government in the whole infrastructure to decide and I think that this is the real relationship of the state that wants to work faster, in the interests of the citizens of the RS, the investment, or who lives in the RS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9905	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9906	I had to react, and maybe Mr. Secretary wanted to react, too. We just heard an amazing sentence. I want to believe that it's a lapus to say – so you don't have to commit to any other law by this law, so there's a law on administrative procedure. It's just that this is something you have to comply with the Administrative Procedure Act. It's something that's binding and you have to do, so maybe some state took it differently, so it could be some kind of powerlessness, but I really want to believe that our MPs take the state seriously and that this was the lapus of a speaker who said something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9907	National MP Dragan Sutanovac by amendment. Please don't use it as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9908	What? Mr. Becic, get your nerves back in here like every time you sit on that chair. It's just amazing that all you care about is a very good-quality discussion. I have a problem with that, when whether it's an amendment or not, when it's about the former regime. I am very proud to have sat with Mr. Ljajic for five years at the Ministry of Government. The Minister of the Interior who was in our time has extended in your time. The special prosecutor is the same as he was. I don't know what that would be about if we were talking about an amendment to a law that concerns first and foremost those who trade and manufacture weapons. I don't think it's enough. Of course you can get along, as a colleague says, with another law, but you don't have to do it because everyone in Serbia has a problem with administration and administrative procedure. I am currently in charge of administrative proceedings against the IRS, or my wife because the administration is not doing its job adequately. Who will be punished? The state will be punished. It's not the individual responsibility of the administration, so let me say -- that's not where he returned the tax money that follows the law, so I'm suing him, but they're hiding behind the state. Who pays the damages? State. Who's to blame? Individual. Why would we be in this situation now to see if the law is going to be respected? What if the law is not respected? Who is this merchant suing? Your ministry, you, because you sign it. I don't know if you're signing those permits, but I believe he's signing your assistant. He's an objective assistant. Now who will the man who doesn't get it in that time frame sue? The state. Who's gonna pay the damages? State. Whose interest is it that this is happening? Just irresponsible people. I think from the point of view of improving circulation, it's better to accept our amendment even though, for the truth's sake, you weren't here five days ago, they convinced us that the deadline was clear and there was a deadline. Even Mr. Gasic said there was a deadline, so I told him he didn't read the law. Today we have a situation to correct and accept to correct, but it's more quality than we suggest. I've been telling you this as someone who's been doing this job for five years. There are those who are laymen who think it works the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9909	Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9910	Article 16 and 17, I thought you'd accept this without reading it, because here it is unambiguously determined what is whose job is in the process of granting consent to the final permit issued by your ministry. On the Defence and Security Committee, we received an interpretation from your colleague that this was established by the Government Act. You, Mr. Minister, how many times, this is already the fifth, sixth Minister, right? Did we have a new government law every time? Your telecommunications ministry, when was that? It's never been. We separated mining and energy once, so the Law on Government is a flexible thing in Serbia, as well as the duration of government, and this law should last, wherever and where longer. So, we have made a clear proposal through the amendment of what anyone does in the process of issuing consent and in what time period. So, the way things are now, everyone's doing everything. Now things are so that everyone does everything. So the M.O.P. can say, we disagree that you're taking the goods to that country. For what? They're right. To the SMEs, we disagree that you are transporting the goods through Serbia, that the Defence says it disagrees with the political situation in the country and so on. You've made an entanglement in which, again, I stress, I see that the ladies get angry when I mention the administration, but unfortunately, the big problem is the administration. Again, some administrators will decide big jobs the way they think they should. It's very clear, precisely, the MUP, only interested in transport, transport safety. Why would the MUP even analyze what country it's going to, what is the security situation in that country, what technology? They don't have people, they don't know how to line it up. The defence analyzes from the point of view of our country's defence whether technology or weapons threatens our security and foreign affairs to analyse whether the ultimate buyer is a country that is under sanctions or not, whether there is an M "suser" certificate adequate to the same country and that is all contained in our amendment. We've made an effort, believe me, this is the amendment that's the longest of all amendments, practically on two sides, to count what the duties are and by these duties you'll know tomorrow who to ask for why it hasn't been done. You look at this and you know exactly if this country is under sanctions, who's to blame for giving the license. This is how I think you're in trouble. It can work that way, but you have a problem on the other hand, it can be added to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Sports tomorrow, as in Switzerland and Austria, it's not funny, it's true. There's a lot of things that can change that's gonna make the whole law troublesome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9911	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP general in the government, Dr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9912	This is almost the only member of this law that simply had to be as it is and no change in this member of the law is possible and I will explain why. We have so far had a solution similar to your amendment, where the obligations of individual ministries are specified in control, or issuing their consent. This is a law where there are no clear and precise standards that you need to install, but the EU, the UN Convention, provides a broader framework in which you need to incorporate the provisions of the law in accordance with domestic law. There are countries free to define the provisions of that law. This article is completely copied, the only member who is literally copied, from point to point, from so on. The 2008 EU common position, which speaks of ten criteria for the export of arms and military equipment. We have not added a point or a decimal because it is the obligation of the Member States to comply with these criteria. We used the adoption of this law to incorporate these criteria into a legal proposal. Otherwise, we had to accept these criteria and what will be used to evaluate this law in a good way are these common criteria. That's why we have absolutely no corrections here. I said, we had a solution that was almost identical to your amendment in the current text of this law, but here is an explicit way of talking about the criteria that the state takes from the common position of the EU in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9913	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9914	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm surprised someone who's been a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia for years shows such a degree of ignorance. You've mixed up two laws. (National Ambassador Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: How can he speak to me? What right does he speak to me? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9915	Mr. Sutanovac, why are you so nervous, why are you throwing yourself out of place? Listen to the MP to finish the presentation. Why are you nervous? You yourself said not to act as chairman, you are now suffering what you asked for. Here, I'll give you back your time. Come in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9916	Mr. Sutanovac has mixed up two laws when he spoke to Mr. Ljajic. He mixed the Government Act with the Ministry Act, and then he said – The Government Act changes every time a new government is formed and then we won't know what the Ministry is doing. What the ministry is doing, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, tell Mr. Sutanovac, who obviously doesn't know, is not in the Government Act, but in the Ministry Act. It's two completely different laws. The ministry law defines the work of each ministry that exists in the Republic of Serbia. The government is one state body, and the ministries are other state bodies. The government is the institution, primarily, of the executive authorities in the Republic of Serbia, the ministries are the primary authorities of the state administration. It is true, and that practice exists in Serbia, whether the practice is good or not, that we could discuss, but that practice in Serbia exists, less, whenever a new government is formed, a new law on ministries or changes the existing law on ministries, which is somewhat logical because when each new government is formed is not always an identical coalition, different political agreements are reached and so on, and all this affects the definition of the work of each individual ministry. The point here is that someone who served as minister in the governments of the Republic of Serbia from 2007 to 2012 has mixed two laws, the Law on Ministries and the Law on Government. So it's not true that the Government Act changes whenever a new government is formed, it's simply not factually correct, you can check how many times the Government Act has changed and that the Government Act has absolutely nothing to do with the formation of a new government. Therefore, the SNS considers that the argument given by the Government why it does not accept this amendment absolutely on the scene and in the government's explanation it makes it very clear that the provisions of the Ministry Act prescribe the jurisdiction of each body of the state administration, including those involved in the authorisation process. It's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does, what the Ministry of Defense does, Mr. Ljajic writes in the Ministry Act. What BIA does, it says in the BIA Act, and BIA has the status of so-called special organisation, and according to the Law on State Administration, the authorities of the State Administration are divided into ministries, the authorities of the administration as part of the ministries and the special organisation. Here's the thing from a purely legal point of view. What is not clear and what shows what dilettism has been managed by the Ministry of Defence is the fact that someone who has sat in the government for five years does not know the difference between the Government Act and the Ministry Act and then a statement. He's complaining to you about how you're mystifying something, so you don't know who's doing it, now it can change, etc. By the way, it's about the amendment that was submitted earlier. Looks like someone who was a minister, you know, the ministry is an organ of state administration. The minister is head of the ministry. And it's just amazing to me that someone who's been a minister for five years doesn't know that the authorisation procedure for importing or exporting weapons is an administrative procedure. As the process of issuing a building permit is an administrative procedure, such as a driver's license procedure, a traffic licence, any of those permits are in fact administrative acts. Administrative acts shall be issued under the General Administrative Procedure Act by allowing the General Administrative Procedure Act to provide for specific laws to provide for certain derogations in the procedure from the general administrative procedure rules by way of derogations from the General Administrative Procedure Act cannot concern the principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Here, there's a co-worker of the minister, so I can do it to a former defence minister who obviously doesn't understand. So it's impossible for you to say – no matter what the law says about general administrative procedure when it's not an administrative procedure. And that's the administrative procedure. And, of course, the General Administrative Procedure Act must be applied. So we would have brought into chaos our legal system if we were to say -- what we care about is what the General Administrative Procedure Act says, now we need to prescribe some special rules and some special procedures here. You know, as chairman of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, I make sure that the legal system is unique, that it is consistent, that the laws are consistent with each other. Imagine if certain special deadlines or certain special procedures were dramatically different from the procedure prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act were provided for for for example by laws issuing construction permits, driving licences, traffic permits, maintenance and carrying permits, etc., this would lead to chaos in our legal system. So here I think it's not generally necessary for a man to be even a graduate lawyer this is what students who study at any law school know, that the process of issuing a licence for importing or exporting arms is administrative procedure and, of course, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure are binding on you, even when it comes to deadlines. As for the authorities in charge of issuing an authorisation for the import or export of weapons, the section of their work is defined by the Ministry Act, not the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9917	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Master Jovan Marković, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9918	Mr. Chairman, I believe you've violated 104. A Rules of Procedure that speaks precisely about not allowing MPs to speak ill of one another. On the other hand, when we look at this discussion, it's really unacceptable that you, with such special support and in terms, and in the suggestion you support the previous speaker who is very, I don't know why it's so funny, who was very offensive about Mr. Sutanovac. You have not previously allowed Mr. Sutanovac the replica even though it has been mentioned very badly several times, and then, with your attitude and behavior, you have supported the very offensive words that have been spoken here. First of all, I mean when the previous speaker spoke of alleged dilettaneous behavior in the previous period, I think it was your obligation to warn him and direct this debate in a different direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9919	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'm obliged to give you an explanation before I ask you if you want the Assembly to plead. First, you have called on Article 104, which allows for a replica if someone is insultingly pleading to another MP. First of all, it's not true that I didn't want to give the People's Parliament to Dragan Sutanovac, a replica. I was just about to give him a line, but you called in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I've been looking at your MP group the whole time, and I've been looking at you, so I haven't looked at the speaker's direction at all, so I can either support or not support that speaker. Also, I may have broken the Rules of Procedure for not giving a warning to Mr. Sutanovac who threw and interrupted the speaker from the bench, and also Mr. Sutanovac warned me not to comment and not to ask the MPs to speak on the subject. So I really don't know what your group of MPs want at this point to hold me as chairman of a grudge. Do you want the Assembly to plead for the injury? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Here you go. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9920	Mr. Chairman, in the Assembly, I don't know which member he is, the forbidden address of each other personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9921	Mr. Sutanovac, he never spoke to you personally, he spoke to me speaking of you, but he spoke to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9922	The person in question said - Mr. Sutanovac. You don't have a visual problem, you don't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9923	Well, when you throw and you interrupt, I can't hear what he's saying, because you've been throwing all the time, distracting the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9924	Well, you have a problem, I noticed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9925	But I don't want to talk to you now. Please continue your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9926	I don't know why you're flaunting. You gave me your word, and now you're breaking up with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9927	You asked me and I have to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9928	I'm not asking you, man, I'm finding a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9929	He's finding out? Well, then go ahead and keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9930	What do I have to ask you when you don't know how to answer? So, Mr. Minister, this joint position from 2008, we're in 2014. Nothing prevents you from going to the EU and saying: we are the first to pass the law that they will prescribe from us. So I am telling you that this is a step and even in relation to the EU lists you yourself said were not unique for the whole EU. So we're relative to the population of one of the largest countries in the world of arms exporters of military equipment. We're not going down anymore, but in the last two years it's been catastrophic, but we analyzed it in 2010. So you are free to perform in the EU as someone who has a vision of how to improve this thing, to go to a higher level, and not to happen like now, and we have read today that some ammunition from "The First Partisan" is currently being used in Iraq by those against whom the whole world is fighting and against which it is with full law, to say the struggles of our country, the political method. That's what the media says today. So, I remind you, good intentions exclusively and only to allow you to act as a resolute minister who objectively does not affect currents. You know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9931	Mr. Sutanovac, you've run out of time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9932	I haven't run out of time. This isn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9933	I gave it to you by the replica, which is what your colleague asked for, but proceed if it's not a replica, if it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9934	Whenever I come to some discussion, you interrupt me, you tell me something, some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9935	I'm sorry, I was warned on time. I gave you my word on the line, because it was your colleague's insistence, but if you're speaking by amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9936	Did you get the impression I wasn't talking about the amendment? Can't you hear me again? So I'm talking about the amendment all the time. I think this amendment is great. You don't have to accept, it's not controversial, it will work without it, but you will personally be in trouble for things that you personally cannot influence because I know how it works in the system, especially in a situation where you are practically in the government of good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9937	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9938	It is true that the common position of 2008 is, and the only two countries that have not accepted the provisions of this common position are Albania and Serbia. So, this isn't about whether we want to or not. We can say, that's the thing, that is, this is an opportunity to integrate that common position into the text of this law, that is not to be negotiated. We used the provisions of this law to put all 10 criteria for exports from the common position in the proposal for this legal solution. I think it's a good thing we're finally not literally at the beginning. I say again, the only two countries that have not accepted the provisions, not to say the reason why it has not been accepted, because of the different views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, their mutual dispute that lasts for years, and we have now finally fulfilled that obligation, which is very important to us before the beginning of the screening of Chapter 31 on foreign policy and economic relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9939	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9940	Mr. Chairman, there is no member of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, although we have not created this Rules of Procedure, this document, we have to respect it, but there is no member of this Rules of Procedure who orders the president or the chairman of the National Assembly to ask Mr. Markovic what kind of expression to place? Is it broken, is it cheerful, what look of the face, and what can be done based on the expression of the face? If Mr. Markovic had followed the expressions of your face more, he should not have looked at the expressions of your face or anyone in this room, he should have seen the expressions of the citizens of Užica, Belgrade, Vrnja Banje, Kralje, by 2012 and how people felt and how people acted and how people lived and how hard they are now living as a consequence of a time when only some individuals from the former regime government were happy, and unfortunately, all the other citizens were sad and had sad expressions of the face. On the other hand, I can't help but resent you, Mr. Chairman, that you are not responding to a sentence that insulting the National Assembly or individuals in the National Assembly, that Mr. Martinovic asked that the General Administrative Procedure Act be respected? Since when is respect for the law an insult to any MP or any individual or any institution? What kind of message do we send to our society, if it is an insult to an individual that requires respect for the law, at this point, what Mr. Martinovic did, to seek the respect of the general administrative procedure? As for the amendment itself, that is, all that was used as an argument, that something would come into the hands of criminals, and definitely that what is happening in one part of the territory and in one part of the territory of Syria, Iraq, we see that there has been a border on Turkey, which is a terrible crime. The fact that they've been killed in such a brutal way, even though the victims are suffering, no matter how, although they're not citizens of our country, we're really with the same attention and we're dealing with the same pain as if they're citizens of our country. We will already discuss tomorrow a single document, an important law which will be the continuation of a responsible policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a relationship to crises and participation, possibly by the participation of our citizens in such matters. One weapon, one bullet, anything, cannot be created thousands of miles away from Serbia, produced in Serbia, and thousands of kilometers are used to create overnight, because it was only transferred overnight from one location to another. Did what the former defence minister said just before confirm that during the former government and the former regime, weapons were sold to terrorists, and now they are in the hands of those against whom the world coalition is created and within which Serbia will participate, in order for such evil to be choked? Is it that what came out these days in the media, and we heard a little while ago that it went out of Serbia, that the confirmation that the former regime was working with such, all for profit, I don't know what? If that's it, then it's a terrible weight around the legs for our country. For the past few years, we have heard different reasons why the former regime has not been more successful or successful. It was the world's economic crisis, it was the partners in that government, it was everyone's fault, and now we've come to evolution. He evolved the reason why they were not successful, and we heard that the cause of the failure of the administration was. Those are the words of Mr. Shutanovec. It's the administration. I'm not saying that the administration in the Republic of Serbia is ideal, but I would like to hear an explanation about whether this administration, or those 27 secretaries in Krusik, is faulted by those of 1,265 employees, and those 60% who worked in the direction? Is it the 126 that worked in the financial and commercial sector? Did those people who worked in Krusik work for work and work relations, and those people did not have pension or social security in 2010? Who is to blame in the administration created by the very regime in which the high-ranking official and defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac, participated? And I hired and I made and organized and I created and I made rules and I did everything, and now it's his administration. Whether he'll say it now – no, I didn't know the director was driving in the latest sports "audia", regardless of the losses and all the shortcomings, I didn't know about 27 secretaries, or 126 in commercial affairs, I didn't know about anything and I didn't know about it. Yes, he is responsible. It's a description of every minister's job to know what's going on in his sector. Whether the 27-secretary administration in Krusik is responsible, but the explanation that the minister does not know what is going on and that he is not responsible in this way does not stand. There is no argument that those who have worked and made such a administration, 780,000 are working in the state sector, from the local community to the ministries and public enterprises, public institutions, agencies and anything. The only government in which the SNS participated had the strength, the political will to make a list first, to say how many people do it in the state and for the state, how many people do it in the administration, and why did they not make such a list, as Mr. Sutanovac said? Why didn't they tell the citizens, here's how many people we've hired, here's how many people we are, party officials, party friends, friends, relatives, godparents, how many we've put on the back of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The government in which she was participating and participating in the SNS had the courage to say that 780,000 people worked in a state apparatus, we had the courage to regulate and close the state for employment, even though I said so, and now I will say that there are no innocents in that party employment, but that this amount of guilt is directly proportional to the length of the remainder in power, and the SNS has the responsibility just as much as it participated in the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia until the time of adoption of that law. Now someone who created and hired, who burdened himself, who didn't want to make a list of all government employees, now says it's the administration's fault. No, it's the fault of whoever created such a administration, who gave the opportunity to work without any rules, who gave the opportunity to share money without any control, not just employment, but compensation and wages to those people, who gave the possibility that there was such a disharmony in the salaries of civil servants, for the same job in Vranje and Belgrade are different salaries. One who has given the possibility to take in the state-run severance management in some municipality, so to move into a public company, so that the public company can take severance from the company, and go to some ministry, so that the ministry can take the severance to go to the agency again, people have made business out of all of it, and that is the fact, and that this government has been one of the most important things targeted, and on the announcement of Mrs. Kori Udovici's being and a law on civil servants who will determine and pay classes, which are not newspapers, but something that existed in the past, that for the same level of work and engagement, there is the same and compensation for the same work, because we want Serbia's state administration to provide services to citizens and businesses and investors in Serbia, and because I think that this is one of the right way and the right ways to arrange not only our country, but to create for more investment and jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9941	I thank you, Mr. Granny. As per the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9942	I believe he's a broken member of 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first point is that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. We are discussing the amendment to Article 17. Law on arms trade and transport and military equipment. In the past nine and a half minutes, we've been listening to a colleague who's not a single word on the subject of this law, and especially not on the amendment we're discussing, we couldn't hear. The only thing that might be about that is the number of secretaries in Krusik, about 27, but it should be checked, because this is not the first time that there are some facts and numbers that are not true, so we heard that this government has established the number of employees. As far as I know, that number hasn't been established yet, because it can't be established because from day to day new people are being hired. If there is someone who has hired and whose responsibility for employment in previous years and part of accepting that responsibility, the only thing that can be sure to praise the party from which the previous speaker comes is the fact that it has hired the most people in the state administration as soon as possible. Please, Mr. Chairman, when these orders begin, self-relaming, to react, to return the MPs to the agenda. The subject of the agenda is the amendment to Article 17, not to listen to nine and a half minutes of something that is not the point of the agenda and the debate at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9943	Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, you were just doing what you challenged the speaker you were talking about. You used and abused the Rules of Procedure to replicate. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: This means that the previous speaker is also wrong? I didn't say he was wrong. I said that you've now used a breach of the Rules of Procedure... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That is not an answer. )......................................................................................................... But don't let us get into the polemics. I don't want to use MPs that way, from the bench. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted the Assembly to declare this injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I was directly mentioned several times. ) (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: I last name and Marić and Markovic, rectified. How can he not have the right to a replica? ) (Jovan Markovic, from the post: You do not allow me a replica in this Assembly. It really doesn't make sense anymore. You're not negatively mentioned. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how is it not? Does Babic mention it positively? ) Mr. Sutanovac, please, you are not a lawyer to Mr. Markovic to throw him out of the bench all the time. You're telling me I'm nervous, and you're showing anxiety all the time, you're throwing away, you're threatening. Please don't do this. Mr. Markovic, do you think you're negatively mentioned in your speech? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Yes. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9944	Mr. Chairman, perhaps Mr. Babic doesn't know, but I've spent 12, 13 years of my life, which I've invested in working in the general interest, always invested in this sense and in this direction to respect people and yes, and to those I address and in the name of those I address, in some ways I always reconcile and extremes and respect people with respect. When I pointed out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I was just thinking of such things, that it was wrong for one MP to speak in such a way about another MP. I don't think it's right if I just got up and said that all that Mr. Babic said in the previous speech, that dilettantism or in that sense, and that what he did in that sense in his life was wrong, I think your obligation would be to warn me, warn me, and say that I don't speak well of another colleague in this assembly. If I have yet to point out that you, with your attitude and expression, are exactly in favour of this kind of speech and this kind of thinking, then I think that I have just pointed out to you, too, that you are doing the same thing to everyone. As for Užica, our smiles and citizens of Serbia, I tried, while I was mayor of Užica from 2008 to 2012, that, no matter how great the economic crisis was, with a smile, with special energy, we started all the jobs we worked on. That's why it's very important for me to point out that just after 2012, the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9945	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9946	And in Užica, perhaps especially, they no longer have that basis...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9947	Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9948	... And that 200 people have been admitted to Užica since 2012 to work... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9949	Time's up, I warned you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9950	In this Užica, after Mr. Markovic stopped being mayor, there is no water left to drink normally. There are no happy and satisfied there, except for those who work at the First Partizan, thanks to the jobs we agreed on, Mr. Rasim, at some point in our time. Unfortunately, it's said here again that we know what our administration is and that we have so many administrators. If it was just taken for evil by my lapus, then you would really have to correct Mr. Babic who obviously doesn't understand what administration is, what are administrators and what are public affairs. No one has ever given us a final number on how many people are employed in the public sector. They're not all administrators. These armsmen who manufacture weapons are in state-owned companies, not administrators. So the question is, what's really the point? In fact, Serbia is probably a unique exemplar who has the government's decision to ban employment and, for the first six months of this year, an increase of 4.7% of the budget staff costs. People retire, no one gets hired and 4.7% more. Why is that? Mr. Djurisic said -- right here is where one great truth was said by Mr. Krstic before he resigned. He said we hired 40,000 new ones in a year on Serbia's budget. That's what Krstic said while he was sitting here. No government has ever committed such a massacre in relation to public finances. No government has done such an evil that, with the increase of all taxes, with the increase of all citizen arrests, today it is pushing its party personnel into the government, while at the same time planning to lay off some others. I'm going back again and I think the point is to talk about the law. It is up to you, Mr. Chairman, to lead this session in a way that is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9951	Mr. Sutanovac, you don't talk about the subject all the time, and then you stand up and complain why the chairman allows MPs not to talk about the subject. It's really not correct on your part, but I said I would patiently listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9952	I apologize to you if that's how you understood me. I didn't mind Mr. Babic talking off the subject. I found it very interesting for Serbian citizens to hear what he was saying. Everybody knows today how much money they have in their pocket, everybody knows how much they're shaking if they're going to be fired, everyone knows how much pensions they're going to be in 15 days, they're going to pay these people sitting here in front of the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9953	Don't talk about the subject again, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9954	I don't mind him talking about cars and cars. I don't mind. I think he should exist as a bad example of his colleagues in this House, because he's talking about things that aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9955	Mr. Sutanovac, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9956	If I were you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9957	I'd give you a warning, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9958	No, I'd have really more understanding for the minority, but that radical...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9959	Here, I'm trying to understand, but you won't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9960	A moment ago, I rebelled not because of what Mr. Babic was saying. I enjoy his speeches. Believe me, it's a fantasy to me. The other gentleman called me by name. You know, when someone by the name of a radical mentions you—e, Sutanovac, at that point we shake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9961	Mr. Sutanovac, just to let you know that you have very little time left, so bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9962	I'm afraid you have very little time, but you're not aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9963	I thank Mr. Shutanovac, not as much as you have been. The word has been issued by MP SNS head Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9964	Whenever there are no arguments, whenever there is no answer, it moves with insults. Whenever there is no answer why there were 27 secretaries in Krusik, why in 2010 no contributions were paid and no law was respected in "Krusik", whenever there was no answer, which is why 60% of the employees in "Krusik" worked in the directorship, which is why a minus was made, which is why people strike and were unhappy, then they move with insults. Whether I exist or not, the Lord God and my parents have determined, and the manner I cannot say is neither what it is or what it is to call Mr. Martinović - the gentleman second and the other. The other is called Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, professor of law school, a man who speaks with force of arguments, not by force of insult, and therefore becomes the other and therefore resorts to insult, instead of answering. There are 780,000 people working at the state administration. Out of those 780,000 to take away these 40,000, so who hires 740,000 people? Well, who's 740,000 relatives, party friends, friends, I don't know what to call them all, who pushed them into the country? Well, what do you call a policy that, without any economic coverage in these public enterprises, increased wages in 2008 by 68%? How? I don't want to insult you. I don't want to be in the manner of the previous speaker, where it's the easiest thing to offend in the lack of arguments. It's no problem for me to go out in front of the O.R. or the National Assembly, and I'm not afraid of Mr. Shutanovec. I wasn't afraid of him when he was much more powerful and powerful and was behind that blinded BMW, which I see most regrettable, as former director Krusika regrets for this Audi A6, sports class for Krusik, with a price of more than 100,000 euros. Of course it's made minus. Now you and those people have come to us to salt our minds, whether Mr. Martinovic is second, or whether I should exist, or not to exist. If you're listening to the previous speaker, no one in this room is likely to exist. Even 136 Serbian Progressive Party MPs are likely not to exist. This amount of hatred not only towards us, we are faced with it, we have been facing it since the founding of 2008 and we have no problem, but we have a problem when this hatred spills on the people who sent us to these benches to represent them, which are citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9965	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stajsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 17th amendment. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9966	This amendment is connected, I was already talking about it, with the amendment to Article 3, so one part that is here in Section 2 we wanted to transfer it to Article 3. Unless the amendment is accepted, this amendment cannot be accepted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9967	Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9968	Thank you. Article 28 speaks of an annual report made up by the Ministry. We have foreseen these amendments to the article. 3, 4 and 5, where the deadlines which do not exist in this law for the drafting of this report would be specified, which is that this report is adopted, that the Ministry should make it available to the National Assembly no later than 1 March of the current year for the previous year, and then, in its position, 4 that the Government adopts this report, and delivers it to the National Assembly without any deadline, shall provide that it is to be carried out within 30 days of receipt of the report by the Ministry. The last change in position 5 is to be published without delay in the "officer" since the government adopted the report and to be officially published on the website of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry. We've already talked about it, and I don't know why the government has kept avoiding being in the law that reports and the register are being published on official websites, with an explanation that it's already done, that it doesn't need to be in the law. We don't see an obstacle to it being a legal obligation of this law or anyone else, when we're discussing it, rather than referring to some general law or some sublegal document, because in this other case it's not older than the law and it can change. What's the point here and where maybe the ministry and we're most divergent is the form of the report. I understand that the publication of the report that we imagined the adoption of the report by March 1st of the current year for the previous year, to say, is currently the opposite of the ministry's practice, because it now adopts the report by taking the calendar year, takes all the permits that were issued that year, and then takes another year to see the realisation of all these contracts, and since they practically pass two years, then again in an undefined period, as the situation is now, adopts that report and sends it to the government. So we had a chance, say, to get a 2012 report, which was adopted and published on the site in July of this year. We think it is a very long period of time, that it is not a problem to change the form of the report, which can say, let's say, the report is adopted early next year, where the permits for 2014 are issued, and then in the second part, a report on the implementation of the 2013 permits is devoted. Also, this practice to define the deadlines in which the reports will be adopted by the ministries and sent to the Government for adoption and where the government has a clear deadline in which these reports should be made known is good and that a better solution would be, not to say more comprehensively, that this amendment should be accepted, because this would allow greater transparency in the work of the ministries in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9969	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9970	As you said, our annual reports also contain data on realisation by contracted work, and it happens that, given the duration of the year, issue in December 2013, it is valid until December 2014 and cannot be completed before 2015, at this point. What we're working on, your remark is in this respect, it's a new information system. We have a donation from the UNDP, something similar to what they did in Croatia. I expect that these deadlines will be reduced significantly when we do this new information system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9971	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9972	Mr. Minister, this is one of the two amendments to Article 30 and Article 31, which I want to allow you to do your job significantly faster. This law, which is proposed, introduces the principle that everything is prohibited except what is allowed. I think you should have the principle that everything is allowed, except for what is forbidden and that in this way much more quality and faster can be done the jobs treated by this law. It was just said that I'm accusing the administration of some failures and something like that. On the contrary, it is far from the truth. I don't think the administration and the silence of the administration, which exists as a termology for tens of years, is anything new. It's the laws we need to disable, and you're as a member of the administration for me, perhaps the first administrator in your ministry, to get some things to absurde, so every moment you ask for permits for some things that happen very often. I believe that you currently have no record of how many planes over the Republic of Serbia fly with some weapons and military equipment mused into another part of the world. I believe you don't have gas. If you have one, I'd like you to tell us. I believe that's quite a number. If every one of them were asked for permission, if everyone were to give consent again, I don't think these things are necessary. It's a similar thing in article 31. I wouldn't answer that. Here's my time by that other member. It's the same thing. I think our amendments have made that part of the law much better. If you accept, it'll be easier for you. If you don't accept, how can I tell you, it'll be the result of your work later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9973	There are five seconds left from the time of your parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9974	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Chairman, I think we should... I know someone doesn't have a lot of time, so he's in a hurry to make some very obvious argument, but it's also necessary to read what's proposed by the amendment, but also what's proposed by the law itself. The amendment suggests that the ministry of defence affairs can temporarily prohibit transport by air for a certain period of time and certain corridors and information on the ban is supplied to the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. While in Article 30, it is said that the air transport is carried out on the basis of the approval of the Civil Aviation Directorate as one of the important authorities of the Republic of Serbia issued on the basis of the permit and consent of the ministry responsible for foreign affairs and defence affairs. I think this amendment is actually a certain position of the 2nd member of the law, whether it's because of getting more time or because of lack of creativity. I think it's a more cellular solution proposed in the law itself, that it's much clearer than we're going to allow for some corridors now, and for some air corridors we're not going to allow that. But I still don't have an answer – what about the 27 secretaries in Krusik? Who is responsible for the 27th secretary in Krusik? Is that the former minister? Is that the former regime? Who is responsible for the 27 secretaries in Krusik, who are not dismayful, but part of the work report and what has been found and what is the situation in Krusik himself? Who is responsible because no contributions have been paid to the employees in Krusik since 2010? Who is responsible for why the law was not respected? Who's responsible because 60% of the employees worked in the director's office, in the non-productive part, and only 515 in the production? Who is responsible for such irregularities? I think this amendment is unnecessary and therefore the SNS will not vote on it, because I think that the solution is all the same in the bill's proposal, but please, Mr. Chairman, that you too insist on – who is responsible for being in "Krusik", besides driving the latest A6, sports line for the director, did he rush somewhere at a meeting at the ministry because he had to get to the Minister of Defence at the meeting very quickly, is that the reason for buying the latest sports audience A6? Why the 27-secretary? Since 2010, why have employees not been paid contributions to health and pension insurance?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9975	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Audi's an A7 because A6 isn't a sports car. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9976	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I have a few more questions, as my colleague Babic may not have been informed. At a time when there was the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad there were export licences for equipment and weapons and then they were issued. In 2006, there were three export licences relating to Jordan. What's interesting, the Department of Defense then, next year, did not allow... Such permits exist by the Ministry of Defense. There was a favouration of certain companies, which were exclusively involved in arms exports from 2005 to 2012. Interestingly, there is only one company within the Ministry of Defence that has always been given, when it comes to the purchase of weapons and equipment, in competition and has always appeared for 30 dinars more favourable than everyone else. How is that possible? It can be very easily checked through the Department of Commerce. What are we talking about flexibility for now? Why are we talking about a monopoly when it doesn't exist and it existed until 2012? Why has the Competition Protection Commission never responded to certain export companies being unable to obtain permits from the Ministry of Defence for Exporting and Importing Weapons, which is why certain companies had a monopoly in this area? It's a very interesting question, and I think it's part of the ministry's jurisdiction led by Mr Ljajic. I'd like to get that in writing, because that information will give us a complete picture of how the Ministry of Defense worked by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9977	Thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, on what grounds? (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: what amendment were they talking about? ) We are now moving to the amendment to Article 31. Wait till I read it. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9978	I would like to reach out, if you will, to my colleague and to fully support my colleague Tomic, who asked us to receive a report – which firm in 2006 agreed with Yemen's job, who owns the company, whether this company's owner is some of the parties sitting here in parliament today, whether his daughter was on the list of some of the parties sitting in parliament today and she has entered parliament, whether she is employed in the Serbian administration in the last two years or not? I think it is very important from the point of view of the truth that we support what Mrs. Tomic said and the DS parliamentary group will insist on supporting this proposal, to find out who it is. When we find out who this is, then we will find out very easily and whose daughter was on the list of a parliamentary group in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9979	Mr. Sutanovac, don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9980	I speak the same way my colleague Tomic used to say, I just support her in that, and now you're warning me, and you're not. I'm supporting her.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9981	You insisted that I warn the Messengers if they did not speak of the matter. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9982	Don't do me. I'm talking about the sphere of something all day. We are trying to make matter such that the state is protected from butchers, those who sell weapons where it is forbidden, from those who are the only ones in the UN resolution and Miss Tomic or Mrs Tomic is today asking us to hear about who it is. I absolutely support it and I insist. If he is not here, we will look at the Committee on Secret Service Control – which is why the BIA did not allow exports and which of the state's account authorities lobbyed him to the UN in New York on the cost of Serbian citizens to remove the man from the resolution. So there are a lot of things that will sooner or later come to light, what is the activity of the president, his advisor, the foreign minister. All of this should be investigated so that Serbian citizens know who they're dealing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9983	Time. You've only got ten seconds more. National MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9984	I thank the chair and colleagues for this – Miss. I'm Mrs. Tomic, after all. What's very interesting, to take responsibility off of what's been going on for the past seven years, where you've been sitting in a certain place and running, then it's easiest to transfer to some people who have just been on a certain blacklist that were removed from that list in 2013. It is very interesting to really examine a certain company that has entered every time it wanted to join the Ministry of Defence by 2012, which was always in the tenders the last invited and always made offers for 30 dinars more and kept on the lager what it bought, on a military lager, and never paid anything and asked for buyers around the world and worked for a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9985	Mr. Sutanovac, you're not mentioned in a negative context or your name. I can't give you a replica. You have this amendment and you can speak by it. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The Government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9986	Only directors of public enterprises entered the Ministry of Defence by 2012. If public enterprises work for the minister, I can understand that. As anyone is removed from the blacklist and how much it cost the citizens of Serbia in travels, dispatches, it will already be discussed and how many cats, kittens, cats employed in the SDPR, who wanted to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9987	Mr. Sutanovac, please. If you want to talk about the amendment, sign up again to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9988	... I think you can accept this amendment without a problem. The idea is that if some weapons or military equipment are damaged in transport, that man in the business is obliged to immediately provide the MUP, or the police, because it says here in the law that he is obliged to inform you. What are you going to do? Call the police? It's here that 24 hours is the time limit in which he has to inform you. Do you know where the weapon could be in 24 hours, and yet, he's a man if he doesn't notify the police he doesn't owe it to you? So we don't come back to that administration that you can do this afternoon, because you're finishing work at half past four, and that can happen at half past five, he'll let you know, and tomorrow morning, at half past seven, when you get to work, that stuff's long gone, and the police haven't responded. I urge you to accept this amendment and I believe that you will accept it because it is really not in any way political or endangering anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9989	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9990	In the current law, we have a solution that has now been envisaged. We thought it was a provision that was meant to be, but we don't mind accepting this amendment in order to more precisely define the reporting obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9991	Mr. Minister, did I understand that you accepted this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9992	Mr. Chairman, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 104, 107. I think it's necessary for us to discuss amendments in the debate, not to talk about boobs, mitts, as the previous speaker said, and then get out of the O.R. As for the SDPR and that instruction on increasing the number of employees, tits, mites, that's all we know about the boobs are in "Cruik" and we know there were 27, but I still haven't got an answer – who's responsible for those 27 secretaries? In August 2013, the SDPR employed 375, and in August 2014, 371 and these are facts. It's not the eye and the cheerleading things that are said. The only known people who are employed in the SDPR are the former minister, true with frozen status, but Mr Sutanovac is employed in the SDPR with the peace of working relations and no other minister or government from which the SNS participated. What I am proud to say, and I am holding a work report, the business of Jugoimport SDPR for the period January-September 2014 and I see that 107 contracts worth $159.056.643 were made here, that for the same period of the previous year the total revenues had a growth of 2.4% and the total expenditure was reduced by 16.04% and that gross profits by nine months this year compared to nine months of the previous year increased by 77.04%. It is the SDPR, and the boobs and mites have remained in Krusik along with that sport audition without paid contributions, taxes, health and pension insurance since 2010, and I am not getting an answer again, which is how it is and who is responsible, and I am sure that the former defence minister, Mr Sutanovac, is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9993	The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9994	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107. - insulting this House's dignity. When you talk, and there's a lot here in Parliament, thank God, and a person of a nicer sex, a woman, that in a public enterprise they do boobs and moves, that someone insults women in such a way. Do you have to think in advance that if a person in a more beautiful sex is hired to do it, who knows how and through what? I'm really trying to stop this kind of discrimination. I believe that these are all persons who are extremely professional and are accepted in the SDPR and in every other public enterprise, and this insult of women really doesn't make any sense, and you were obliged to give notice to the MP, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9995	Mr. Djukanovic, I'm not obliged to give you an explanation right now, because I didn't want to interrupt, but you couldn't answer at this time. You could only have done it before Mr. Babic's speech. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Mr. Marko Djurisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9996	The Honorable Chairman, and you have agreed that the Rules of Procedure, Rule 103, have been injured. - The MP shall have the right to point out the violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and shall be held at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. So, you yourself realized that the previous speaker could not refer to Mr. Sutanovac's exposure, because after him was a continuing discussion, and we were listening to the explanation of both the boobs and the mites, and the other secretaries, and how busy the SDPR was in 2013 and 2014, but we couldn't hear what it was in 2012 and the successful results of Serbia's state in "Krusik". I hope that's how successful the results will be in other companies. I would also like to have Mercedes in FAP, I would like it to work for Jelizar, I would like "Fiyat-cars of Serbia" to work for five days or seven days a week, not just three, and this government to do something in a factory that owns 33% of the capital, and not, as we took practice here in the Assembly today, that MPs answer the parliamentary questions of other MPs. No one reacted at the time. So, I ask you to hold a session and that if an MP violates this Rules of Procedure to exercise the right that stands for you to take away the words relating to the taking of time if the MP has violated the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9997	I thank you, Mr. Djurisic. I had to listen to the MP in order to know which injury he was pointing to, and I interrupted him when I saw that he wasn't suggesting an injury to the previous speaker. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9998	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, this is my third application for three amendments. Most likely, I wasn't nervous enough, probably not waving my hands enough, probably not making enough noise, so unlike some of my colleagues, he was afraid at one point that he wasn't colding his watch, so he didn't fall off his hands, and that watch from a collection costing over 10,000 euros was equal to the weapons of a small company. I'm not going to discuss it, but I'm worried about where the 27-, 28-year-old secretary from Krusik works. I think it came to this company by seeing someone in Libya that Gaddafi had a bodyguard, so he himself decided to establish a small company of secretaries and try to defend his position. I like this amendment because it foresees that in the event of the disappearance of arms and military equipment, the person is obliged to report it to the Ministry of Interior within 24 hours of the moment of the formation or damage of the weapons, or military equipment. I like that, but I don't know if it's been used before. Strong weapons have been missing for the past 14 years. The tanks are gone, some say they're soaked, someone says they're not, most likely they're previously cut, and then they're soaked, there's a lot of long pipes gone, there's a lot of ammo gone, there's a lot of ammunition being sold, there's a lot of ammunition out there. Just to remind you of the tragedy that took place in Uzic, it seems to me in 2009, when seven workers died, that our arms exports would be as high as possible. There are indications that weapons and military equipment have not exactly been traded in accordance with regulations in the past 14 years, especially in accordance with some of the standards applicable to Europe. It is known that in 2009, a president of the state received a medal and that our unit participated in a military parade in Libya. Today, the same party is against a military parade in its own country, but then led a small unit of Serbia's army to defile in front of Gaddafi, gathered in front of the country's president, who was decorated with Gaddafi's image, for 40 years in the Libyan Jamaica Revolution. On that occasion, I don't mind them participating, Gaddafi is an old friend of this country, but I resent them for not having realised the job that was then negotiated. It's likely that it wasn't personal for someone, maybe Taji from Turkey didn't make a good suit for Gaddafi, and he sewed someone else here in Serbia. Therefore, no work of 160,000 rifles, worth $47.7m, did not realize a $5.3m flag of arms job and did not "Freedom Cacak" realise a fivem-euro job. I don't mind the fact that the former president won a medal at that military parade, I don't mind being a fan of some other parade, not more of the military parade that's supposed to be held with us. I'm not against the fact that they gave up Gaddafi, although it's not nice, if someone honors you with their own character, and you give him up after the fall from power, but you get that medal, I'm not sorry that they gave up his favorite Aisha camels, I think that's what it was called, but I'm sorry that this job wasn't realised, since our workers produced very high-quality weapons, and in doing so, they risked health and lives, which is evidence in Uzic, where seven people died in 2009. So, this amendment that has been adopted and which provides for the disappearance and damage to arms and military equipment to be reported should be complemented. Too bad it's not completed, to check all the weapons, ammunition and equipment exported from the previous period, what's realised and what's not and why it's not. It is most likely that it was about privatising jobs that were supposed to bring and what foreign exchange income to our country, that through this income we would provide salaries for workers, and that they would participate in the fullness of our budget, that their families would benefit from their income and their salaries. Instead, we got private jobs from private persons and apparently, according to expensive watches, which are worth tens of thousands of euros, they obviously have reason to be nervous today and to wave those hands with those timers. I'm just afraid they don't fall and who in that case will pay for the damages of several tens of thousands of euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u9999	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanaović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10000	Article 38, for those who may not follow in detail this debate, defines violations and penalties for offences committed under this law. What we wanted with our amendment is to extend the possibility and to impose the penalties provided for in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 for all infringements. If we were on a good path somewhere, I was also convinced by the amendment of my fellow Marinkovic, who the government has accepted, and which expands a little, there are 12 counts of violations here. The government has provided that, in addition to fines, other penalties may be imposed only for infringements referred to in Articles 1 and 2. The amendment by my colleague Marinkovic has also been made for point 3. What we don't see, the problem is that our amendment is accepted and all these violations can be punished. So they can, they don't have to. What is the second part of our amendment, it says, is to add a new position at the end that would read – the property benefit of obtaining and committing the same veils 1 to 12 of this article will be subtracted. It is an extremely interesting argument from the government that this amendment is not accepted. I have to read it - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the government feels it should make a difference in the prescribed penalties in the case, for example. that the person is acting contrary to the provisions of the law or giving false statements or incorrect data in the event that he does not provide a timely report on the implementation under the issued permit, we can agree, but now a sentence – therefore, infringements can be cut out for each of those cases, but there is no need to impose a ban on action in milder cases, under the precepts. Crimes don't say. Sentences are imposed if any misdemeanors are committed. I'm not a lawyer, and I don't know if the lawyers are putting together these arguments, but there's no way to say it - violations can be said. There's a penalty to be imposed. If we agree here, then the key word is I can, and they don't have to. This law prescribes possible penalties, so we leave it to the competent authority to appreciate whether this is a minor case, so there will be no other penalty, which is defined by this law, which is: banning a legal person from carrying out imports and exports, banning a responsible person from performing import and export operations and banning the provision of brokerage and technical assistance. So, we can and we think that all these violations can be serious enough and that all of them can, but they don't have to be said. Also, the Law on Infringements allows other laws to provide for penalties when infringements are prescribed, so that measures can be imposed on confiscation of acquired property benefits. So it doesn't just have to stand in the Law of Infractions, but it is defined by other laws. An example of this has been found in the Law on the financing of political activities, where it is said that when some violations are committed and certain material benefits are obtained, it can be taken away. We believe that the conduct contrary to this law, which leads to a material benefit, that the law requires that this material benefit be taken away and that this is not contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10001	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10002	Of course, it is absolutely not the opposite of the legal system, only we felt that it was regulated by the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts and the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons and therefore did not find a place in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10003	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Proposal for the addition of a member and a member 39. The amendment proposed to add a new term of members and members of 39th together was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10004	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This amendment was submitted by my colleagues and I, as you said, proposing to add the title above the new member of the 39th and the new member of the 39th, because Article 38 regulates violations, and this member of the new one who would add and the title would regulate the limitation of the initiation of the infringement procedure. We suggest that the new article 39 reads: “The offence procedure for the infringements of Article 38 of this Law cannot be initiated if five years have passed since the day of the offence. “ The existing members 39 to 42 would become members from 40 to 43. What are the reasons why we should suggest that an limitation of the conduct of a five-year infringement be anticipated? In view of the specificity and importance of the matter governed by this law, and thus the severity of the infringements resulting from the conduct of contrary to the legal provisions, we consider that the limitation period for the initiation of the infringement procedure should be extended to five years. The Law on Infringements provides for such a possibility in Articles 84 and 6 providing that external trade and goods and services may be subject to a special law for a longer period of limitation, with no longer than five years. If the limitation period is not extended, the general limitation period shall be valid under the Law on Violations, which shall be one year. This deadline is really short because in certain cases it is possible to know about the offence only after some time has elapsed. This happens most often in cases where an offence is committed in some way, so that the ministry, or the competent authority, finds out too late that a certain failure has been committed and at the time when a possible infringement procedure has already taken place. These cases in this matter should not be available. The government, of course, has rejected this amendment. The reason is that it is not accepted for the reason that the Law of Infringement prescribes the limitation of the initiation of the infringement procedure and is considered that its provisions are applied accordingly to this law, so it is not necessary to set deadlines in particular. We felt differently, and that's why we submitted the amendment. For this reason, I must present the following. When the promoter at least didn't read the explanation of the amendment, he could read the entire article 84. The Law on Infringements and to see that, after Article 1, which prescribes a period of limitation of one year, several other views follow, thus providing for the possibility that infringements in the field of customs and external trade, trade in goods and services may also be prescribed for a longer period of limitations and for up to five years. So, the writers of the Law on Violations, both valid and previous, are aware of the importance of these areas, to which the bill we are now considering, and hence the violations in these areas can have much more serious consequences and much greater weight for the whole society, and are aware that it is necessary to extend the limitation period so that the offences do not remain unpunished and that the perpetrators do not remain unprocessed. Contrary to them, the ministry, which otherwise cannot make an annual report in a year, considers a year-long period for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure to be quite appropriate, comprehensive and sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-07-0.u10005	Thank you, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 8 October 2014, starting at 11.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, except for the first four items of the agenda, which the National Assembly had voted on earlier. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. 6 most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the sittings: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric, Mladen Grujic, Olena Papuga, Vladimir Pavićevic and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session, and given that the first four points have already been decided, we are moving to a decision on the remaining points of the agenda. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft export and import laws on arms and military equipment to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branke Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen, members of the 1st and 40th, Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djerić, member of the 3, Zoran Babić, member of the Member. 3, 13, 16 and 18, Dragan Šutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic on Article 8 and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic on Art. 11, 24 and 38. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 33 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Article 11 The amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica and joint MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 172 of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 174 of the total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstention – voted 171 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 178 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Borislav Stefanovic. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment at the National Assembly session during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, proposed to add a new membership name and Article 39, together were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172, out of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on the export and import laws of arms and military equipment, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, v – eight abstentions – there are no, there are no nine votes, of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment. Since we now need to decide on the proposals for a law on the validation of international agreements (point. 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda) I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, against – no one, with abstentions, voted six, of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming International Labour Organisation Convention No 94 on the working clauses of public contracts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, abstentioned – one, voted seven, of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 190, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote, one of the 191 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on veterinary co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 189, no one, with abstentions, voted two out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for elections and resolutions (point. 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been made to those proposals, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS Parliamentary Group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group BORIS TADIĆ – A New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 1 October 2014, at 12 hours and 41 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – no, 175 of the 189 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 1 October 2014, at 13 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 180 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 3 October 2014, at 10 o'clock and 42 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 178 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Predrag Mijatovic, at a session on 3 October 2014, at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 176 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr Alexander Jerkov, at a session on 3 October 2014, at 10 o'clock and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 172 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 October 2014, at 13 hours and 53 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 October 2014, at 14 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you. (The session is closed at 11 o'clock and 30 minutes. )
