ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 134 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljan Nikolic and Aleksandar Jablanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Monday, so other than those laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the draft law in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that on the basis of a joint principled review on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Income Tax and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Obligation Social Insurance, I have called on the Minister of Finance to attend the session and Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Irina Stevanović, Assistant Minister of Finance. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is set up pursuant to Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Djordje Milicevic suggested putting the draft decision on amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. We'll repeat the vote on your intervention for the system. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 105 of the total of 128 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. It doesn't work the voting system. Drop and insert the cards again. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 22 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the bill to confirm the loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the government of Emirat Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) as a lender in connection with a loan of $1 million, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development, Abu Dhabi, to finance the development of the irrigation system, the first phase, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on the confirmation of the financial agreement "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Other Priority 3/A" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 22 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Mongolia on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 24 MPs out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 24 MPs out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation and provision of consular protection and services in third countries, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 22 MPs out of the 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the operational and strategic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 22 MPs from a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the amendment to Article 20(1) be put on the agenda. The Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 24 MPs out of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors for the appeals public prosecutor's office, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 32 MPs, against – five abstentions – two, 145 MPs did not vote among the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I remind you that the MP group is DS, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 23 May 2014, submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was delivered to you. Also, I remind you that the LSD Vojvodine Parliamentary Group is in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 23 May 2014, submitted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been sent to you. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure on the termination of the election of a new member or alternate member of the Board, the National Assembly shall decide at the first next session following the submission of a proposal for a parliamentary group, which means that these proposals for a decision by force of the Rules of Procedure are included on the agenda of this sitting. National MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens submitted by the Government on 20 May 2014, the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. A joint single search on the draft loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a borrower and the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi as a lender in respect of a billion dollar loan, a bill on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Fund for the Development of the Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of the irrigation system, the first phase, and the proposal for a law on the approval of the financial agreement "Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities 3/A", between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on visa waiver for nationals of the two countries, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation and provision of consular protection and services in third countries, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendment to Article 20(1) Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. Does the MP Dr. Diana Vukomanovic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 26 MPs out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the agenda of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. I ask the National Assembly's service to form and deliver a consolidated agenda of the session, and we move on to work on the established agenda. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) as a lender in relation to a loan of $1 million; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of the irrigation system – Phase I; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Other Priorities III/A" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in the provision of consular protection and services in third countries; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1). Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. 11. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly; 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Income Tax of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Obligatory Social Insurance. Does the representative of Proposer Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1933	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm just going to brief on these two laws, which is the essence of the changes and the additions that are proposed. In principle, it's about two different things that we've united. One is making it easier for new employment at the amount listed here, from 65-75%, depending on the number of employees, to be applied from July 1st. This relief certainly is not in itself the cure of all medicines and panaceas of the Serbian economy, but it is one of several things, from exactly five things that we do on the economic side. It is regulated by law, and others have already passed in the form of regulations by the government and aims to reduce unemployment. On one side of structural unemployment that's long-term. We have a large number of unemployed who have been on the Bureau for over six months, over a year. This applies too highly to them. On the other hand, it aims to reduce the cost of business for investors, whether domestic or foreign, as one of the possible mechanisms, and the other, of course, the Investment Promotion Regulation, which seems to have passed me last week in the government and which we will specify in the next few weeks together with the Ministry of Economy. So I would refer to this aspect, also taking into account what the Fiscal Council said, or two more angles. One is related to the amount of fiscal costs or revenues of this measure. What is important and what needs to be taken into account, what we will not have is a reduction in income due to this measure, for the simple reason it is for people who, if they were employed, who would not be paid full-time contributions. So every new employee brings new incomes, and this does not apply to those who are currently employed. On the other hand, this measure is in some way an stimulation that has been going maybe a few weeks now for up to a month before the aggressive struggle against the gray economy. So, in this context, it is also a stimulating measure that in the next month all those who are employed in black translation, i.e. to introduce them into books along with this facilitation, to provide an opportunity for those who have been hired on black simply to do so before it goes very aggressively with changes in the ZPA, the Tax Procedure and Administration Act and a few more accompanying laws, the repression and the struggle of inspections against the gray economy. As for other things that change, it refers to the amount of contribution rates for PIO and health insurance, in particular, where the weight is transferred from health insurance to PIO. So again, this is one measure that is a prerequisite for achieving fiscal consolidation and is completely natural for two reasons. One is that we at the Pension Insurance Fund have a large deficit, while last year we have had a balance in the Health Insurance Fund, so to speak, we have neither deficit nor surplus, or last year we had a surplus. It's just that in a situation where several different levels of state have deficits and a major deficit, it's important that we sort of balance incomes and expenditures and where they go. In doing so, this is a measure that does not in any way mean that the essence, i.e. the nature of health insurance, will change as such. So, all that is missing when we enter the budget rebalance of the Health Insurance Fund, and based on the reduction of contributions, will be replaced by the transfer from the budget, in the way it already goes for the pension fund. This is essentially the measure that allows us to achieve savings at the republical level and then at the general state level, and based on the savings already achieved by the Health Insurance Fund as regards public procurement, i.e. further savings that will be achieved in relation to fiscal consolidation. The last thing, we have already talked to the new health minister about more comprehensive health insurance reforms, that is, what will be entered into the primary insurance package and what is it that employers and citizens pay for health insurance and that is something we will address, I do not want to commit, but I believe that the Ministry of Health should take the lead here, and the intention is by the end of the year. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1934	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, regret the word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP named Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1935	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have two laws that are closely linked to each other, the Law on Income Taxes and the Law on Social Security Contributions. In Mr. Prime Minister's exposé, we heard that our economic recovery programme is based on three basic points: strong and credible stabilisation of public finances, public sector reform and as the last reform of the economic environment. We also heard that by the end of July we had to pass some laws, in terms of economic laws, then the law on public finances and social protection. These laws are the first steps we have now taken towards the adoption of reform laws, especially in improving the economic environment for future investors. First, I must say that the SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws. In the draft income tax law, we have seen that it is a tax relief that concerns employers who employ new workers, without any categorization. Here I mean age categorization or how much experience they have in work, in work. So these reliefs apply to all new employees. The employer and the entrepreneur have such a relief that they actually have a refund on the part of the tax paid on the earnings of the new employee. The height, as we have read, between 65% and 75% is this relief. This depends on how many new employees are in the company, or how many are employed by the entrepreneur. It should be noted that these reliefs are not feasible for direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget system, for public undertakings, for public services, public authorities and organisations and, of course, for those who have already had some benefits in the previous period. As we have read and seen, in this change of law, the target group is entrepreneurs operating in the private sector. This is how we're going to achieve that private or private sector hires new employees as much as possible, and with this we're going, as Mr. Minister said, in the fight against the gray economy, in the fight against the gray zone, right about employment. In the second law, as we have seen, the first article changes the rate of contribution. This is about an altitude of 2%. As we have read and seen, pension and disability insurance rates for pension and disability insurance rates increase from 24% to 26% and for compulsory health insurance rates from 12.3% to 10.3%. So here's a change of structure in contributions. The additional burden will have neither employer nor citizen in these changes of law, only the structure has changed. As we heard and as we know, this is how the pension fund will actually have more money, more inflows, while the mandatory health insurance fund will fall. It's about 18 billion dinars as mentioned here this year, so in 2014. In Article 2 of this law, we saw the same relief as in the income tax of citizens that those employers who employ the new workforce have a relief below 65 to 75% return on benefits, and especially for new workers. So it's all new employees again, it's not seen at all as we said age or work experience. Before that, we had some relief that they were trainees in order, these young people under 30 and those workers who were 45 to 50, so above that. With these reliefs, these categories are deleted and then for all new employees, I think it's acceptable and as I said, SVM MPs will vote on these laws. But in this mandatory health insurance law here, we have to point out that unfortunately, we haven't dealt with the agricultural population, because in a law that applies, we know that every farmer has to pay for compulsory insurance or pension insurance and we don't say that they shouldn't pay at all. Unfortunately, there are some discrimination among those farmers, especially those who are small farmers who handle land from one to 10 hectares. So it's in practice that these people farmers pay the same amount of insurance, contributions, and those who do or process over 100 hectares of land. I know it's about 90,000 dinars and this money for small businesses, farmers, it's big money. For those who process more than 100 acres of land, they don't even notice it. We think that in the next amendment to this law, we should pay attention to these farmers in order to somehow avoid this discrimination, that paying these contributions would be so that everything depends on the size of arable land and the amount of income obtained from agricultural households. In the end, let me say once again that the SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1936	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1937	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the JS parliamentary group will support both of these laws, meaning the Income Tax Act and the Law on Contributions and Social Insurance. I'm going to pay more attention to this first law, because this second one is the simplest thing being said is by the principle of connected courts, immersion from one side to the other, and no matter how we turn, we're always missing something somewhere. But I believe that since you have an overview of the whole situation, you've found the right place to do it in these certain percentages. The reason for the support of the JS parliamentary group is that these laws are pragmatic and easy to apply in practice. The tendency to reduce the number of unemployed people and reduce the gray economy and the key to this law. I think it's something you should know, and it's very important for these laws, for applying in practice, for controlling what happens to them, is the work of inspection services on the ground. Somehow, as in practice all these years ago, inspection services are very easy to reach people who business entities are registered and put into the system and always control them. There are a large number of them in the gray zone that are not visible at all in the inspection service system. I think maybe, as much as this law is as important and the work of an inspection on the ground, so by subliming their work and this law, we get some real and expected result. We from the JS know how difficult it is to find investors because Mr Dragan Markovic in practice, you know, already works for several years on this issue, the established industrial zone and any privilege or any subsidy that the state can make possible for a new investor to have jobs in place. I also had a chance to get an evaluation of the fiscal council on these two laws this morning. From my experience, for two years now, because I was in my last term, I know it's very rare that they assess a decision with a positive assessment, so they haven't positively assessed this here, even moreover, they say it's not in line with good tax practice. But personally, I wish those in so much experience could give us some more concrete solution, better than the one you gave. I still think that what you did absolutely makes sense, and their criticism mainly concerns that from some earlier times we haven't had a good experience with such laws. some similar decisions. First of all, I think that the people who used these, let's say, early-time help didn't have a good experience with the state because every relief they thought they were getting had to be paid more and more. So now they're careful with every law that comes. These days I talked to some accountants who put into the calculator all of what we're talking about today and who are simply surprised that all the users of this law have no obligation nor that workers keep reported for a year, two years, etc. So this is the legitimate right of anyone to choose the moment he doesn't respond to what he's done, and there's no consequence. I think that's a good thing. In practice, it should look something like this. The average personal income this moment says was 43,000 dinars in March. It seems a little bit to me, to be honest, because I come from Vrnjaka Banja, down to us, a little further from Belgrade than this, but the bill comes out like this. With your proposal on the net amount of 43,000 dinars in gross amounts, the employer has a relief of nearly 15,000 dinars, 14 000 dinars and some dinars. With the lowest earnings of 23,000 dinars in gross amounts, a relief for the employer of 5,400 and some dinars appears. I just want to remind you now for one moment, and that's the end of last term. You and I also talked in one decision that comes from a local level. I specifically applied it to me in Vrnjačka Banja, which is a decision to grant subsidies to employers in the territory of Vrnjačka Banja municipality to create new jobs in 2014. I think you remember what we were talking about. It is a decision relating to the salary tax of which 80% is the income of local self-government, and 20% returns to the republican funds. Why do I tell you this? This is also what I propose to all other fellow Members from other cities, from other backgrounds that they too can apply such a decision. It does not adversely affect the current budgets that have been voted in their local environments, and sublimed with this decision in practice gives the following amounts. At the first average salary of 14,700 local self-government can still be 4,500. This is where we come to nearly 20,000 dinars for employers who hired a new worker, and at the lowest profit of 23,000 dinars we get to a figure of nearly 7,000 dinars. I think this is a good thing, and that's what you should give first of all as a recommendation to the local environments because it's a decision of each and every one of them to act on. It is a good thing that the deadline, conditionally said, is put on two years in each case, if it is until 30 June 2016, so that we can, at the moment, see some positive effects of this decision, stop applying it. It is important in a proper and transparent manner to explain to all employers that this deadline is 30 June 2016 and that each month in the delay of new workers, first and foremost, it causes them direct damage. The point is that as soon as these incentive measures are launched, the employer is directly benefiting from them. A single-Serbian parliamentary group has submitted one amendment. We'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda. It refers to this part where you say they have the right to use all those who are on the labour market for six months. I don't think there's a reason for one of those decisions. You've defended the law in two, three ways. You can see that in a transparent way. I think, first of all, this is going to hurt those young people who are now 18 years old and first show up on the labour market. While they wait their six months, absolutely unnecessary for us to have 25% of the time this decision is in force to leak. I would ask you to consider this amendment and if it is possible to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1938	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1939	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I do not remember that Serbia was in a more difficult financial situation than it is in today's situation. We have a public debt that is not in line with the general fiscal rule, which is greater than the criteria set by the EU, which has a path that is such that it is certainly long-term, and I would dare say medium-term unsustainable and, of course, we have a monitoring budget deficit that is very high and growing. In such a situation as it usually is, and according to that Latin expression, since it has become modern in the Assembly to quote some of the sayings, which reads "Abisus absum invocat" or in some more free non-metaphoric translation – trouble calls for a terrible elemental accident with, it seems to me, inconceivable consequences, first of all for the people affected by this accident, but on the other hand, and with very serious economic conconsequences precisely on the elements that I have previously listed. So it is quite to expect that the growth of our public debt is likely to accelerate in the coming period, given that we will have to be in debt to remove the effects of the flood. It is expected that it will be very difficult to defend the budget deficit, which is also too high because we will have to finance the removal of the consequences, or that we are trying to normalise life in devasted areas. This will also be reflected in what some say, I think, the basic theme of today’s conversation, or will be changed to employment, because we are going to lose a certain number of jobs, not to say a large number of jobs because some factories have destroyed machines from floods, because some of the shops or some of the business premises have been completely destroyed, or because some companies have destroyed supplies in floods. It seems to me that, as it is in trouble, there is always someone good, even in the worst of evil. In this evil, it seems to me that it has proved to be a good thing that we have seen that we continue to possess something called community, or solidarity, and that solidarity is a key word that the SDPS has insisted on for months, because it seems to me that this is one of the basic preconditions that we are able to reverse the path of our economic situation in the coming year and try to speed up the economic growth of the Serbian economy. It seems to me that we missed a lot of opportunities in the recent past when we could solve those most difficult measures of the transition period in a more painless way. I would dare say that in certain periods, indeed without any desire to accuse anyone, we have been somewhat irresponsible and that because of this we have come into a position that now, when it is most difficult, we are forced to bring the most difficult and unpopular measures and that therefore the price of these measures is much higher than it would be in the past, as the price of these applications and measures tomorrow would be much higher than today if we did not apply these measures. To return to what is the topic of today's discussion. For Serbia, the European Commission has designed for this year an unemployment growth that will be the primary result of the completion of the restructuring process, in which we will clearly lose a number of jobs. Mr. Minister, in your fiscal strategy for 2014 with projections for 2015 and 2016, you have estimated that this year we will record a decline in employment. Indeed, according to the first data available from 2014, we see that we have a continuation of the trend from 2012 and 2013, which has been slowed down. So, we have a slight drop in employment, we've lost about 17,000 jobs somewhere, which we've come down below, it's stupid to say magical boundaries, because there may be some others, don't give God magical limits, but we've landed below the border of 1,700,000 employees. When we look at these data, when we put them in the context of losing a certain job contingent thanks to the completion of the restructuring process, where some companies will go into liquidation, let them go into bankruptcy, and a certain number of employees will, by voluntary retirement, also become... They don't have to retire, they can become unemployed. So we're going to get a number of more unemployed, which all says it was absolutely necessary to urgently bring in measures that would boost employment. When we add to that what I was talking about, and what was important and mentioned, what would be the consequences of the flood, it is clear as a day that these measures that we have to take were absolutely urgent and, in this sense, the SDPS parliamentary group supports the measures that you have proposed and supports what you have proposed under the urgent procedure, because we believe that it was very important, especially in this situation, to react urgently to everything that has been waiting for us or what has happened to us. You have already mentioned, of course, these are not the only measures, nor is this the only measure, we have a series of measures to take to be able to compensate to a certain extent for that number of lost jobs that are imminent. These two laws are seen as a first step in this direction, i.e. towards increasing economic stability, improving the business environment and creating a higher level of competitiveness for the Serbian economy, all in order to attract new investments, i.e. employment. I think it's important to say something that you mentioned, which is that other than these two laws, the government has taken some other steps, or it has passed two regulations that I think are no less important than these two laws. One focuses on the relaxation of the economy, especially the relaxation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the other on improving the conditions for investment. So this first measure is aimed at giving time to mainly the small and medium-sized enterprises sector "take a little air", and the second measure is aimed at creating an attractive framework for attracting investment. Both measures in the final instance should be given as a result of an increase in employment. The SDPS Group expects that all the other laws announced in the previous period will come in the next period, which will thus complete a practical package of measures that should create a very competitive and very attractive environment for attracting investment, even if we are, as far as possible, competitive and attractive in our region in which it will certainly be a very big fight to attract investment. Mr Minister, it is understood that MPs in this House will respect the fact of the very difficult situation that we are in because of the elemental disaster that hit us and that in this sense we cannot expect that all those announced deadlines will be fully respected by when the laws will come into the process. If it moves, of course it will be fully justified. Now I would like to say a few words about something that is not an integral part of this law, but very often it happens that something that is not within the law is no less important than what is in the law. We have had opportunities over the past six months quite often to hear about Serbia as a recordr of tax burden on labour, i.e. at the level of income tax and contributions to compulsory social security. I must say, in that sense, I have consulted with our professional service in the congregation, and from them I have received very interesting information that says that this offended opinion, or prejudice, is absolutely not standing. I'll just give you some information. First, according to the data I received, only two countries have contributed to Europe's lower rates. One is the Czech Republic which has a very low contribution rate of less than 1%, i.e. the total contribution rate. Another country is Ireland that has more than twice the contribution rate, but let's say, Ireland is one specific case. What's interesting is that, let's say, one Germany has a 41.9% contribution rate compared to our 35.8, but someone will say that Germany is a very developed country, so maybe it can allow itself to attract investment and employment, but also some countries in the region, which are our competitors in terms of attracting investment, such as Bulgaria and Croatia, have more rates than we do. There is also a great dissatisfaction in Europe with high workloads. I must say, tax rates are also very high throughout Europe. What is particularly indicative or interesting is that the explanation of the authorities in other countries in Europe is very similar to what we have, which is that pensions are financed from these contributions and taxes. Today we are talking about two amendments and additions to the laws that we are trying to introduce some new benefits, namely to reduce in a certain way the contributions, though, exclusively for new employment, but in any case, the measure is affirmative, or positive. I will give you an example of a powerful economy in Europe such as Austria, which has increased its rates over the past two years and has changed its legislation towards much more restrictiveness, so let's say they have introduced a bonus tax for vacations and Christmas holidays, they have increased social taxes, it is a matter of abolishing the institution of non-taxable earnings and it has abolished the privilege of not paying contributions to the unemployed for the elderly of 59 years. So, even such a powerful economy, which is Austrian, leads a policy that is very restrictive, and we run a policy that is, let's say, expensive, although I'm not sure that this word is fully applicable in this particular case. Now I'd like to say a few words about benefits from new employment, because I think that's something that's most important in these two laws. What are possible faults, I'll leave it to my colleagues in the opposition to talk about it. What I recognized as some three basic benefits in these two laws, when it comes to new employment, is, firstly, I would say, a larger coverage. I don't think that the previous measures, or measures that are still valid, which were part of the current law, were bad. It just seems like they've become anachrons. Perhaps in the previous period we could in some way motivate the employment of certain groups more than others, i.e. in the previous law we motivated the mainly employment of those who are considered "hazarded" categories of unemployed. It seems to me, given what I've listed, to our complete situation, that we simply can't afford such a luxury anymore to put some in a better position than others, or we have to apply measures that will have a complete scope. In that sense, I welcome this solution of yours. Another thing that I think is very important, perhaps even less significant, is that we practically have a situation that there are almost no conditions, or there is practically only one condition, which is to increase the number of employees compared to 31 March 2014. Why do I think that's very important? Because the greater rigority of the current solution is practically the rule of a large number of control points, which is why we have additionally burdened our inspection services. Then when we wonder why our inspection services are not effective enough, we must also consider that sometimes our legal solutions, in which we try to prevent what is called some specific Serbian tendency to avoid all possible laws, we try to avoid all these possible situations and then make the laws too complicated, making the work of inspection services very difficult and very complicated. Finally, easier enforceability in practice, which has to do with this previous one, which is that it will say that this solution is clearly, unequivocally, less control points, less foam and easier to apply. I think that in the future, we should go in the direction of simplification of regulations, just to facilitate the work of our inspection services. A few words about individual solutions in laws. As far as income tax is concerned, you yourself said that this measure has no negative fiscal effects, and it should have positive fiscal effects, firstly, for the reasons you said, and this is about the growth of new employment and the translation of business from the gray zone into legal flows. The other thing is what it also says in the explanation, so I wouldn't say, because they could all read it, which is that it also has direct effects on the budget in case of new employment. What I think is very important to say is that these incentives and all other incentives that we give in the future must really follow a more rigorous policy of control, and in this sense we expect that, in the amendments and additions to the Tax System Act and the Tax Administration, you will really strengthen the control that will be on the ground and you will do some of the changes that you and Mr. Cosovic have announced, starting with something that seems very simple, which is that it will change, for example, the working time of inspection. It is truly illogical and unreal to control inspections from 7 to 15 hours, and then some who work afternoons and nights almost without fear can break the law. Of course, it is also necessary to establish a high level of coordination between the National Employment and Tax Administration Service, the APR and all other entities that are important and permanent data exchanges between them precisely in order to make this control easier. As for the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, you said, and yes, it is clear as a day, that these changes are fiscally neutral, although I must admit that at some forums, blogs and comments I read that the measures are not fiscally neutral. Apparently, someone couldn't count well. What's very interesting is that according to the first available data for this year, or for the first four months of this year, we have in the Republic Health Insurance Fund a surplus of 6.1 billion dinars, which when multiplied by three, we get a little more than 18 billion dinars, just as much as this transfer from one account to another. That deficit could practically be compensated. I know, Minister, that the surplus is more temporary than permanent character, but it gives us a reason to think about it so that we might actually be able to make this fiscal neutral measure a fiscally positive measure, by reducing the costs of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and I don't think, by any chance, that the quality of health insurance that has been asked for various reasons, rather than reducing the various administrative costs and trying to keep this surplus that we have until the end of the year, i.e. that the practical reduction of the transfer to the Republic Health Insurance Fund does not lead to some minus in that position, and that on the other hand, this transfer that we made in the direction of the PIO fund is a kind of fiscal positive measure. When we add to this the rationalisation on the part of the PIO fund, when we add the measures you have announced, which is that the gradual retirement threshold will be increased, that the way in which the benefits of the work experience are achieved will change, when you talk about the introduction of actuarial pens for early retirement, then we may see that we may have a chance to, of course, not very quickly, but in the medium to long term, make our pension and disability insurance system sustainable. I really hope that in some future you might start to think about it, of course, it's not the near future, that our PIO fund is transformed into some kind of investment fund and that it practically starts, on some longer deadline, to give it a chance to at least start working on its own in one part, and to “be on its own”. In the end, I would just say one more thing, because what I've been talking about is pretty much in many elements of black, just to share one piece of information with you, although I believe you know him, which is a chance and which is an incentive for us to work even better and even stronger and even more successfully in the future. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development noted in its report that in our region the structural reform process in 2013 has slowed significantly. Of course, without wanting to take it out of another person's misery, I think that this data is actually a great opportunity for Serbia, because if Serbia in the coming period significantly speeds up its structural reform process, and we talked about it as much as in the previous months, and of course we expect it to happen, then I think we have a very good chance of becoming very competitive in our region, to become the most attractive destination for investment, thus and employment in our region, i.e. to appear as a significant point in the investment map of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1940	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1941	Dear President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, labour law and tax policy are, we will all agree, the main stumbling block in terms of our competitiveness in attracting foreign investment. Every year we return to this topic with insufficient success. Last year, the Law on Income Tax was amended and did not give special effects. The coalition that is currently in power I think it has received the support it has received from citizens to implement, let's say, root and tectonic reforms, but the legislative proposals that are before us today, as far as the League of Social Democracy of Vojvodina is concerned, are not what will bring significant shifts in this domain. Serbia applies to a country with probably the highest profit burden. On 400 euros, the salary stands out about 520, or translated into percent, is 64.5% in total compared to gross earnings. What we stand out as our comparative advantage, which is that we have a cheap workforce, is not true because when viewed from the employer's angle, when taxes and contributions are added and all other allocations are not an advantage. The European average is 42%, and we have 64.5%. The problems that apply, which also burden entrepreneurs and large corporations, whoever you're talking to will tell you that the impositions are really big, but I don't think this situation is solved because they're not newly employed, the problem is people who are currently employed. I think a good part of the working-age population, who's busy today, is receiving minimum earnings. You, Minister, have these analyses better than we do, but for the reasons that the burdens 65% of the people are reported or not reported or registered for minimum earnings, and the rest of the earnings are paid on black. The benefits you have provided here, that only newly employed ones will be free from paying part of the property tax and part of the contribution, will not give the desired results, because it has already been tried with the earlier 2011 Regulation when only for certain persons such benefits are foreseen and that has not yielded results. Our tax system in this segment is full of illogicalness because in Serbia, the more you earn, the smaller taxes you pay, the tax system is regressive, not progressive. You need an expert to fill out your tax returns and someone who really understands how taxes and contributions are accounted for in Serbia. That'll tell you any stranger who came here to work. There are taxes and contributions to the burden of employees, taxes and contributions to the employer's burden, etc. What is particularly worrying is the opinion of the Fiscal Council that has very well argued why such measures will not yield results and we largely agree, because we think that tax rates should be reduced for all employees, not just for new employees. Of course, this would create a certain lack of funding in the budget, but I think the base of those who would apply to receive full personal income, i.e. to be reported in accordance with the current Labour Act, would be far greater, and the base of which would collect incomes for pensions and health funds would be far greater. I think the transfer from the health fund to the pension fund is very questionable. As you know, Serbia has the worst health care in Europe and reduces the health fund I don't think it will deliver good results. Health problems are far deeper than those facing this government or future government, but solving the pension fund's problem by reducing health care is the excess from hollow to empty, given that health care is a matter that we should deal with here in a more detailed way. A country where the problem when excise revenues fall, i.e. when citizens less use alcohol and cigarettes, so it is listed as one of the problems in fiscal policy, it is not during your government, but during some previous, when excise traffic falls, it is a problem for the budget, and on the other hand, health is in a catastrophic state, prevention almost does not exist. The pension fund is something that would have to be arranged the way it was done in some other countries, i.e. that it is capitalised in a way where it would have some substance that could reject yields and from that would be paid for regular income, but given that pensions and health funds were devastated, up to 90s, the funds went into some infrastructure projects and are no longer known where these funds are. In Vojvodina we had our own time and pensions and health fund, but he magically disappeared, i.e. He drowned in the Republic. Agriculture is the sector where you would have to define who and how you pay taxes and contributions, or farmers are in the worst position here because no benefits and benefits can be achieved, no matter how much property they own, and I think that's the topic that interests us from Vojvodina. Liberations are only here for entrepreneurs and those employed in legal persons. The total number of entrepreneurs and companies in Serbia is around 300,000. It's part of our economy that weighs the burden of this crisis and it's the only one that can generate some kind of economic growth. For this reason, I think that more attention should have been paid to those who are currently employed, because until order is introduced in that segment, it is difficult for administrative measures to achieve any result. Administrative measures cannot contribute to economic growth. We had a case with a proposal to limit payment deadlines, etc., but there's always a way to avoid it. Real life is quite different from what we vote on in the congregation. As far as LSV is concerned, I say again, we will not vote for this proposal, because I think the reforms in this sector must have been much clearer and much better and that they fundamentally change this whole domain. I hope that soon you will come out with the new Labour Act and some other legal regulations, so we will have the opportunity to talk about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1942	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1943	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, today we have two draft laws, a bill on amendments to the Law on Mandatory Social Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income of Citizens. As is known, our country is a small country that has been facing major problems for decades back in terms of achieving GDP to the extent that it is necessary to finance the state, and so that this same country can finance its citizens. It seems to me that over the past period, which doesn't last for two or five or ten years, but for something longer, we've entered a vicious circle from which we can never seem to get out. Citizens don't have enough money to give to the state, and on the other hand it's the same state that doesn't have enough money to give it to its citizens. So, as logically completely, one, first of all, rational question -- why would citizens give anything to a state that has nothing to give to its citizens? When we look at our economic situation, then logically, we come to such a conclusion. Again, for more than a few decades, citizens have no money to give anything to the state, and the state has no money to give anything to its citizens. There are many reasons and of course I can always ask for explanations, if you will, and excuses for such a thing. I won't mention them in this place. There is no need to repeat the question of who was ruining the Serbian economy because then we would lose valuable time and we would only get to one situation, which is that valuable domestic markets have been destroyed that allowed us to sell our goods. By 2014, the situation had changed and this had changed significantly. From the industrial state, it seems to me that we've become an economic hole with no bottom. From the state with the domestic factories that were extremely business, some of these factories were giants our people could be proud of, we became a country that begs foreigners, who invite foreign investors to build us factories. Not just factories, I'm not just gonna limit myself to factories, I'm talking about hospitals, I'm talking about kindergartens, I'm talking about rashes, because it looks like we can't do it ourselves, because that's the situation we're in, unfortunately. Looks like we always have to rely on other people's economies. We have to trust other people's resources, trust other people's money because we don't have our own. No funds, no money. We often have to trust other people because it seems to me that there are not enough people, and sometimes in certain situations, it seems to me that being human is extremely difficult. Of course, in this place, I have to add that the government has decided to change the tax policy so that it can develop, which will reduce the burden on those who hire new people. Let me repeat, this is done exclusively and for the sake of investors. So far there was a fear that was fully certain that Serbian businessmen would abuse such opportunities and, of course, such certainty existed and it seems to me again enough to tell me about the state of our economy. We could not encourage foreign investment for one reason because we were just afraid and afraid that domestic companies would be the one who would abuse such reliefs and those companies that would fail absolutely without any single foreign investment. The Serbian peasant, today is May, today is without any money beaten, because all the money he had, for example, invested in his own field. Now there's no more money, there's no more fields, and then what kind of money a farmer like that is going to survive until next spring, and what kind of money he's going to make with his own hands. Do you have any idea why this bill of law and this social security proposal we're discussing here today? In this place, I have to say, ask a question, do you know why these billions are even given through the budget of people who have absolutely nothing today? Did you know that this is done not only for the sake of those same people who have nothing but for the sake of us who have something? That's what needs to be made public, that's what to say in public. In fact, it is through another law that we are also discussing today, which is the same through the Law on Income Tax. In order to improve the investment climate in our country, much more must be done. It has to be much more determined and I think the proposed changes had to be much more radical. Because of the economic situation she is, anyone who starts a job should be rewarded. But if rewarding when many who do not start a job can happen again, there are many abuses. If we look at our history, that's exactly what happened to us throughout history. We do not realize that it is necessary and necessary for us to help each other in each job and that we must do much more. We need to change the administration system that is what it is and I won't comment on it much, because I'm afraid it would use extremely harsh words, unsuitable to the dictionary of a national MP. We must absolutely make that administration completely effective, and make every official in that same administration and its work absolutely effective. The issue of building permits must be minimal. It must be regulated through some other laws that I hope will soon be discussed in the National Assembly. An Investment Security Agency must also be established and anyone who invests a million euros in our country must guarantee that any thieves will not steal it. In this place, I have to quote something that the late Dr. Zoran Djindjic once said a long time ago – everyone will invest in that country and even if there is a risk, I paraphrase this because I can't quote it, but it can say – the Serbian economy is not good, but okay, I'll try. After all, if I can't do anything about it, at least I know that I have some effective government that will be my guarantee, so it's worth a try, and I'll see if I can get what I need and what else I can get. That's what the late Dr. Zoran Djindjic said. Now I'm going to come back something more concrete about the very laws that are on the agenda today. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Social Insurance Act, this bill brings two amendments. The change that we first encounter is a change in the rate of contribution, as since the last amendments to the Law that this member has been amended it has been less than a year. These changes and additions have taken effect and have been applied since 30.05. 2013 Last year, the speed at which different changes and additions took effect seems to have introduced the least said chaos in the economy, as most companies had already completed work on salaries and then had to work all over again. That's why they were completely restricted, at least as far as time limits were concerned, which were pretty short. It seems to me that the proposer is now aware of the situation in which he is located, that he is aware of this type of failure and has decided this time to avoid such a situation, in view of Article 4(2), which states that in the account of the payout, i.e. the payment of wages and wages, i.e. the remuneration, the contribution rates for the compulsory social security provided for in Article 1 of this Act shall be applied starting from the payment and payment for the month of June 2014. It seems to me that this way, and in such a way, is given enough time for everyone to adjust to new rates. The last time in 2013 the rate at which contributions are calculated and paid for compulsory pension and disability insurance increased from 22% to 24%, and this proposal increased to 26%, while the rate for compulsory health insurance from the original 12.3% was reduced to 10.3%. Now when you look at all these percentages, a year ago they were smaller than they were proposed today, it may look scary at first glance, but I think it's clear that the proposing's intention to dissipate in this way both the burdened budget and to strengthen the Pensions Fund that are often under question. In particular, I'm not going to talk about the current situation. It is also clear that the promoter also believes that the Health Fund is not in the same crisis as the PIO Fund. Next in line are the changes relating to the reliefs that employers have in hiring new persons and, unlike the previous solution, this amendment refers to the employment of a person independent of the age limit, therefore, independent of their age. Therefore, Article 45 refers to persons over the age of 50 and 45 and 50, and now that restriction no longer exists. It also deletes Article 45a, which referred to trainees, is now making it easier to hire new employees, they are defined by Article 2(2). The draft law, which reads as new employees under Article 1, shall be considered to be the person with whom the employer has concluded a labour contract in accordance with the law governing employment relations, who has applied for compulsory social security with the mandatory organisation for compulsory social security and who, before the establishment of a working relationship with the National Employment Service, has been declared uninterrupted for at least six months, and the person considered as trainee for at least three months and during that time has not achieved any type of employment income. The good side of these changes is that it provides an opportunity, provides an equal chance to start a working relationship and what is also motivated by employers to hire as many people as possible, if their capabilities allow it, and to avoid working on black, which can occur as a problem, and that's what I'm going to draw the person's attention to, is that the category of people who really have the least chance of finding a job, or finding a job, is precisely people from 45 years old, over 50 years old. Such a solution seems to me that such persons, i.e. those age categories, are a little extreme and are not included in the best proposed solutions. It's just that a large number of people are out of work or out of a firm that they've been working in years back, who have been shut down, criminally privatized or something else, whatever you want, and these are exactly people who are entering this range of years already mentioned, 45 to 50, possibly 60. I think the previous solution to this particular issue has been better addressed. Of course, as far as the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income of Citizens is concerned, I understand the proposal's intention and I understand that this intention has just been governed in order to increase employment, as foreseen by these changes and additions. What's different is that it leaves out the age limit here, but now it's under 30 years old and the proposer no longer limits himself to the employment of persons under 30, but brings reliefs, or brings reliefs and age limits at all. I find this solution extremely good and useful, because we are rarely all in a position to read and to see ads where the employer asks us to say that the potential candidate has completed college, that he has a working experience, let's say from five to seven years old, and what's most important, is usually listed by this age line, so we can often see the one that has already become a general clause, and possibly under 30. Certainly, as I can read in the explanation of the promoters, such changes that are ahead of us today are trying to create somewhat conditions for implementing one comprehensive reform of the business environment, in particular reforms that will contribute to a completely new situation for the inflow of investments that we are in need of as a society, which will contribute to employment and economic growth, which will create above all more favourable conditions of engagement and by disbursing economic operators, as well as to remove the gray area in the area of employment. What I must mention, too, is that they have received absolutely all the parliamentary groups, these are primarily the evaluations given by the Fiscal Council on the proposed laws. Absolutely some of the allegations they put there are absolutely accurate and I have to agree with them. A high unemployment rate in Serbia, and we are all witnessing that it is high, and not only in Serbia but also in other countries, of course it is structural, as the Fiscal Council suggests, and that it requires one root reform, primarily rooted reforms through the construction of labour legislation. I say construction because today it's at a completely low level, and it almost doesn't exist, to improve the conditions and, of course, create conditions for the competitiveness of the domestic economy that doesn't exist at this point. I will also agree with the Fiscal Council, which says that the grey economy is what is our biggest problem, that it is estimated to be more than 30% in our country and that it represents not only a budgetary problem, but is seriously jeopardising the entire sustainable economic development and companies that operate legally are being eliminated precisely by those companies that are illegally operating in the gray zone. I will also agree with the Fiscal Council's view that the proposed tax reliefs, as stated for newly employed workers, produce only a marginal reduction in public revenues, and that the proposed reduction of health insurance contributions and an equivalent increase in social security contributions envisioned by an extant short-term solution that will allow the reduction of deficits at the republican level. That's why I said at the very beginning that I was expressing myself at the same time as I was afraid, but also the hope that, in some future period, our overall situation might be much better, but precisely for those reasons that I made at the very beginning of the presentation, I expected that today's changes and additions would be more radical, more comprehensive, and not that we would see each other here for some months, two or three, and we would discuss again the same laws and amendments that are not on the agenda today. Thank you. A lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1944	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1945	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krstic, these two laws we are considering today have an obvious good intention to attract investors and increase employment. However, the promoter did not have in mind that in our country we have 46 underdeveloped municipalities where at 23 we have income less than the republican average below 60% and 23 below 40%. The promoter also had no idea that in some parts of our country, especially in these underdeveloped municipalities, we have municipalities such as Tutin, Sjenica and Nova Varoš, which are over 1,000 metres above sea level where winters last for more than six months and where energy is expensive. When we take all 46 of these underdeveloped municipalities, if a law like this was passed, all these municipalities would be discriminated against in advance and disabled. Why? Because all investors who need to come and invest their money are looking for a highway, railway, airport, river or seaport and legal certainty and certainly an effective administration. However, in all these 46 underdeveloped municipalities, this is missing. Therefore, in a country like this, with this condition and the number of underdeveloped municipalities, where there is no basic municipal infrastructure built, this law contradicts itself. He aims to motivate investors to invest and increase employment. However, where the most needed investments are and where the minimum employment is, there are no conditions and we cannot attract any investors, not even our diaspora, let alone other people who would come to invest their money from the world. I suggest you think about it a little bit. At the same time in all these 46 municipalities mostly live minorities. There are Bosniaks, Albanians, Bulgarians, Romanians, Vlasi, Roma and other fewer minorities. So, from the point of view of the Republic of Serbia's budget, those 46 underdeveloped areas symbolically represent some 46 small hatches on a loan containing the money, the budget. If we don't solve the employment problem here, and if we don't solve what we're supposed to do with these laws, then, no matter how much we charge the budget, it's always going to be empty, because these municipalities are mostly living off the transfer, helping the state. So, like this, I think it's going to make an even bigger difference. Those who are developed will be more developed, and those who are undeveloped will be more undeveloped. That's why I suggest that the proposer of this law withdraws the law. We've given three amendments to these two laws. With these amendments, we're trying to make things right. However, regardless of all, I, as head of the parliamentary group and president of the Sandzak Party, who has three MPs in the Assembly, propose that the motionary withdraw this law from the procedure, correct this injustice itself by not respecting the fact that there are 930,000 people living in 46 underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia and that this is the most vulnerable population in the Republic of Serbia. I repeat again, within that, there are all minorities living in central Serbia in central Serbia. Therefore, if there is no change to this law, the Sandzak Party MPs will not vote for any of the other laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1946	The word has Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1947	Mr. Minister, the honourable Members of the People, the citizens of Serbia who follow this work today, are before us to amend and supplement two laws. Mr. Secretary was very concise, I'd say operationally concise, and there's no point in me being very rude right now and being more extensive than he is. Of course, nothing epochal, but also useful at this point. I followed the radio and observation of the fiscal council. I can define that. This amendment and supplementation proposal can't hurt. Whether to give adequate real results remains to be seen in the next period. We've had similar solutions, but it's our turn to give it a chance to try and see. I repeat, it can't hurt. Some fiscal council solutions I'm not sure would be very useful, so it doesn't question the integrity of the system's functioning. I would refer to these measures that should contribute to employment. All last year, I, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, represented the the thesis that there are no extra employees in Serbia, but a lack of work. Of course, not literally and no, of course, in every place. In general, we as a country have very few employees and all the forces, I would say, and these administrative ones, and those in the financial sphere, and I would say in the sphere of something that needs to be positive energy in the entire population, we need to focus on increasing employment. What about the people, I heard, then we discussed, that they're somewhere, nobody knows exactly, about 50,000 in restructuring companies? Of course, many of them will lose their jobs. It's good that this time frame is off, old man. I expect employers, I do business, I run a business, and I know, I only take people when they need them. They'll see people who can do certain jobs for them. He'll never take them like that. Cost of employees. Be careful, the psychology of socialism and capitalism is different. Employment costs are business costs, and the basic economic principle, the principle of economics, says we have to cut costs. Let's not expect the employer to receive new people from some altruism and hold them. He knows exactly how many people he'll need. I repeat, I expect that some employers from this great army of people who are out of work will try to find professional, qualified people who miss them. Right now in the construction operation, she has to go now, we have to have the foundries, the carpenters, the builders. It can't be done by someone 18 or 19, who's never done anything. We need real professionals. Of course, that's a possibility. Whether in practice it will be so, I don't know, I can't argue and I can't be a prophet, but this measure certainly goes in favour of saying that we're doing something to make it possible to increase employment. Of course, with this, I would say, administrative measure, which is in the field of fiscal, must be withdrawn and some real, crucial economic measures. Let's not count it. Today we ratify some contracts here, and on the other hand it's said that there is a development fund of one state that gives us a billion. Let's see the Serbia Development Bank which will be able to finance real projects, which will be able to help any man with a good idea, but not with an interest rate of 15, 16, 17, but with one approaching zero. These are real incentive loans, but today, unfortunately, we still don't have them. In all of this, I'd look back on the pension and health fund. We often touch a pension fund in the Assembly. There's a Mr. Minister as a good knower of this problem. We often hear it this way, everyone likes to say it – if the pension fund was an investment fund. I can tell them here it's pure nonsense, no offense. Gentlemen, you need to know what the capital market is, what market players are, what stock companies are, what the stock market is, what the castods are, what the investment funds are. Pension funds are specialised financial organisations that, if you want, buy actions from investment funds to reduce the risk. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? It's familiar stuff. Today we have a pension fund in Serbia that is a flow water heater. I'd be the happiest if he'd become a real pension fund, but it's a long way from a flow water heater to a real investment fund. I repeat, the first capital market, all the players on that market, the detailed regulatory, strong stock companies, and then we make a real pension fund. Until then, and why am I for this law, for changes and additions, selfishly, because only opening new jobs, this country can move forward. The other kind of egoism is just a pension fund, and I'm primarily concerned with the protection of pensioners, it can be loaded and made sure that only if we have new employees. Therefore, it is of vital interest for this country to create new jobs. This is a good try, like you, I'm looking positively at this and I'm looking forward to the first results with interest. I wish you success in this work. The PUPS Group and I will personally give full support to these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1948	The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1949	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Mr Ministers, before us, as we have heard from this debate, there are two laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. These laws introduce certain tax reliefs in hiring new workers and this is something that opens up hope and opportunity for new employment. There is only one, and I understand it, as an initial measure that will take place in the coming period much deeper and more substantive changes in the economic policy process. Both laws aim to create better conditions for new investments, new employment, work, economic and social stability, and we heard that in the opening statement today, Mr. Minister. These changes are only part of deeper processes consistent with the government's economic policy and future economic measures. These, such and similar measures, the SPS will support not only as a new economic policy, but also as an integral part of its own policy and its own market view, the field of work, the measures concerning both employment itself and the position of workers and employees. This goal enables a new field to be opened in Serbia that will primarily enable the employment of young people and theirs, with their full knowledge, youth, enthusiasm, full capacity in the work of businesses. In this respect, the SPS supports both of these laws in the process of working further, and I will vote for them. Serbia needs reforms and major changes today. Of course, not as they have been in recent years, in which liberal capitalism has experienced here, in some ways it is possible to say eldorado and whose effects have been very bad, which is the closure of factories, poor privatisation, impoverishment of the population, social uncertainty, reduction of profits. On the other hand, no new jobs have been opened during this period, no new value has been realised. Unfortunately, young people were unable to get a job and were left without a perspective. Today, it is a great responsibility for you and the overall government to react to this situation in the long term, with the right responsible, well thought-out measures that will succeed in stabilising Serbia in the coming period, because we do not simply have a place to go. Serbia must recover. Personal resources have been spent, factories have been destroyed and sold out, and the people have lost their jobs, and young people unfortunately leave Serbia because this seems to be not a good enough place to live. At this point, it has been estimated that one of the possible and important measures is the change in the amount of contributions for pension and disability insurance, because it is primarily directed, at least to a small extent, to the stabilisation of the pension fund. The second measure refers to improving the working conditions and combating the grey economy that exists here, is represented and there is work on black where many workers are not registered, and in such conditions they lose both the state and the workers themselves. The State loses by not receiving certain grants and contributions as provided by law. On the other hand, the workers are also at a loss, because by their own work they only get their own diary, to call it that, in fact, compensation for work, but at no time manage to provide social security on a long-term plan, or what's called pension insurance for tomorrow. Such flows and such a phenomenon must surely be interrupted and introduced into what is called the work of institutions in an appropriate and responsible manner and the social security of citizens for a longer period of time. The new measures adopted by the employer are not burdensome but, on the other hand, in this second law, gives it a relief to encourage new employment. The first step, when it comes to increasing pension funds, is to achieve greater stability of the pension fund, which is under great pressure and we can say that it is fighting for its very life and sustainability. On the other hand, the reasons for the adoption of this law aim to improve the position of employers who are encouraged to new employment, as well as to bring any work into legal flows and introduce them in the right way. The grey zone in the work according to all data is causing major consequences and cannot be supported over a further period. As can be clearly seen in the current law, which is being amended, the reliefs existed for an employer who employs either young people or those over 45 and 50, and 55 years of age. During a certain period, this measure was considered necessary precisely to ensure that sensitive categories of people finishing school should be included in the field and the labour market as soon as possible, and on the other hand to help hire those who are in a somewhat later, life-cycle, who have a large working experience, which unfortunately, because of these conditions, the transition has run out of work. The new measure that we are talking about today, and which we are going to actually adopt, is looking for and enables all those who are going to be newly employed to make it easier to relate, and it is actually expanding the power of new employment to all categories of the population and will influence these measures. The reliefs provided for in this Regulation relate to the employer who employs a certain number of workers and, if the number of workers is slightly less eased, 65% for those who, for example, employ one to ten workers or up to 75% if they employ up to 100 or over 100 workers. It must, of course, be pointed out that this measure applies only to private persons, and cannot participate in this measure, i.e. the incentive, the achievement of public authorities and organisations, public enterprises and public services and other direct or indirect budgetary users. We only take this as a start. We have many more new laws and changes to aim at Serbia's recovery, as I said, and sustainability of the economic and social system, firstly, but also the development and improvement of life in Serbia in a much wider way. The changes that have been present in recent years, whether from ignorance or bad politics and goals, have led to the destruction of creativity and courage for young people. We need changes that would eliminate the occurrences of corruption, all forms of abuse or non-application of the law, which in the previous period led to the vacuuming of energy from young people and trust in the country. Young people are Serbia's greatest chance, not only because of their youth but because of the knowledge that is actually the greatest capital. Dear Mr. Minister, I think you know it best, as a young and highly educated man, who has met examples and phenomena of the world's economy and the world's economic flows. It is quite clear that with the best knowledge and skill, you will apply the measures that are adequate and applicable here, with what we have to lead, it seems to me, to account for the balanced measures that will, on the one hand, encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of economy and incentives for employers. But, on the other hand, it will also protect employees who work in these companies so as not to get the employer to consider and treat the employee only as a cost, because it is the employee who creates the right capital, that the work must have its own, and here in Serbia, the right price, that the worker must also have that dignity. That's what all Serbian citizens expect, especially young people here in Serbia. If in this way we look at the worker and the employee, especially the young expert, he will not tend to go abroad, because the labour and capital values are balanced in a certain way and he will, of course, want to stay as an engineer to work in Serbia, but rather go as a worker to work in another Western European country with developed economic measures, or developed labour market. When it comes to Serbia today, we have to have a model of ourselves today of young people who are usually between 25 and 30 years of age to finish schooling, to have no mandatory practice, and usually, in new employment, a certain practical knowledge is required. This is possible and one measure that must simply be envisaged in the future and installed in order to bring into practice the practical skills they will need in new employment. They see unclear rules in this situation, they're powerless and they don't see a way out. What we see in Western countries is that young people usually finish school by 24 years, have planned volunteering, and have a clear perspective on where they will be behind it, how and how they will be employed. These are some objective conditions that must be properly planned here in the coming period and thus create positive effects and much better positive consequences. The outflow of young people and their emigration from Serbia is on average, according to some data, one city or 32,000 or 33,000 young people leaving Serbia each year. On the other hand, we have an increasing number of old ones, and then we are further multiplying the problems that exist in society and the state, because a small number of employees, a small number of young people cannot normally maintain the stability of pension funds and an increasing number of the population that is essentially here is an increasing age. In this regard, when it comes to pensions, I just want to point out that their sustainability must also be taken into account as well as the minimum social security that must be provided for pensions, because it is known that on average our pensions are very small, that every tenth pensioner is below the poverty line, that each fifth on the poverty line, and that warns us of the obligation of great sensitivity and sustainability of the pension system. That is why these measures are welcome and only possible in this segment of work, but we expect from our government in the coming period that, given the importance and importance of social effects, social stability and the marked need of young people to work here, and we have seen this through this great activity and the elan that has been shown to protect endangered cities from floods, in an appropriate way we use a lot of respect and respect, because those with positive energy can give the best effects and provide both social security and Serbia's development on their own basis, of course, and with their own knowledge and capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1950	Thank you. Dear MPs, due to the urgent and urgent obligations of Minister Krstic that he has just informed me about, I am setting a break in work by 14.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] I apologize on behalf of the minister for being late. According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Personally, I don't want to continue the discussions until the minister arrives, so I'm asking you to understand. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1952	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the New Democratic Party will not vote for these laws because the adoption of these laws does not solve the problem of high unemployment in Serbia and besides that these laws do not comply with good tax practice, their adoption means the deterioration of health care workers' standards, the extension of the waiting list and the time of treatment and the deterioration of the situation in Serbia's overall health system. The main feature of these laws is the absence of a public debate and the first question I ask the government's representative is - how could the government refer this proposal to adoption without a public debate? Have you consulted patients' associations since these laws reduce the funding of the Republic Health Insurance Fund? Have you given people under 30 or over 45 years of age who will be in a worse position to have a working relationship and what do they think about it? In his exposé, Prime Minister Vukic cited two strategic important documents the government will adhere to in its work. One of them is the National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia. The strategy, among other things, provides for the introduction of a legal guarantee that in all cases the adoption of the rules will precede public debates and that proposals with these discussions will be discussed. It also foresees a mechanism that would allow interested parties and the public to participate in the regulation process at all levels of government. Such a procedure, namely the adoption of a law without public debate, does not respect one of the two strategic important documents that Prime Minister Vukic cited in his exposé. To be clear, my discussion is not only about respect for the procedure, but also about the bad effects achieved by this law. The existing legal solution foresees that younger people under the age of 30 and over 45 years of employment, i.e. The employers who employ them will be exempt from all contributions and taxes. Now that release is reduced to between 65 and 75%, depending on the number of new employees. According to the National Employment Service, on 31 March of this year there were more than 210,000 unemployed under the age of 30, as well as over 280,000 older than 45 years looking for a job. Under the existing laws, which you are changing today, they have had an absolute release, no contribution has been paid to their profits. Now you're reducing it to 65 to 75%, depending on the number of new employees. According to us, this law applies only to those who are between 30 and 45, so barely 300,000 unemployed of more than 790,000, which means that this law applies only to 40% of the unemployed citizens of Serbia. I wonder how young people will get to work? If we have people working on the market with no work experience, which, for example, They are 25 years old and on the other hand, we have some who are 35 or 40 years old, why would an employer define himself as someone without experience, as an intern, and not someone with a working experience, when they have the same tax exemption, regardless of which one they hire? Also, with this bill, people who are 45 or over 55 can be considered rejected. The existing legal solution allowed their employers to be released from all contributions to their profits, and now this release, which was 100% reduced to between 65 and 75%. We have made amendments that predict that stimulate the employment of people below 30 and over 55 years more than those of 30 to 55 years, that difficult employment categories have a greater tax exemption than people who are at their best years. Also, we are interested in why the oversight role of the National Assembly is avoided? We have a situation that there is no public debate and that reports of the application of this law do not refer to the National Assembly. We have given an amendment that is scheduled for the ministry to report every three months to the National Assembly on the application of this law, regardless of what is published in the newsletter, but also for the National Assembly to be officially informed about it. When it comes to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, we have information that, according to research by two independent European organisations – the European Health Consumer Index and the AIF, Serbian health care is the worst in Europe, lastly on the assessment of the state of health care. At the end of last year, we had a debate in the National Assembly on the issue, where the representatives of the Ministry of Health said that it was not true and that it was in line with the means that they had, for example, some. 1,000 dollars per patient, they can't provide better healthcare than for example. Finland, where about 5,000 dollars per patient was provided. My question is -- how do we plan to raise our health system if we take away that $1,000 per patient from the Republic Health Insurance Fund? This concludes that the obvious surplus that Mr. Minister mentioned in his presentation at the Republic Health Insurance Fund is the result of poor governance of the health sector, not of good health conditions, and that our resources are threatening us. I would like to refer to Mr. Minister's presentation and ask a few questions, as he said in his presentation that if the Republic Health Insurance Fund lacks funds, the funds will be transferred directly from the budget. What is the difference if funds are transferred directly from the budget to the PIO Fund or to the Republic Health Insurance Fund? The second question – why is it not to ensure that taxes and contributions are released directly, but that there is a refund? So, we burden the administration by having to submit some applications and then the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration will re-fund the costs that employers previously paid, and we know that this can be delayed and we have experience with both pregnancy and maternity and that the state is usually late and therefore does not pay any penales. Why is tax exemption not done directly, but through a refund? The third question, if the Republic Health Insurance Fund really has a surplus, why did we turn the debt to pharmaceutical houses here last year into a public debt state? So, let me remind you, although you should know that the National Assembly of Debt, which the Republic Health Insurance Fund had toward pharmaceuticals houses, has turned into a public debt of the Republic of Serbia. I'm interested in the effects of law enforcement. In the bill, we could read that 10,000 newly employed new incomes would generate a budget of 500 million dinars. What is the effect of the law in terms of the number of new employees? So, what are your prognosis, how many people are going to start a new working relationship? to leave the National Employment Agency for the next period after the entry into force of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1953	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1954	Thank you. I will answer these questions and your comments, but also something from this morning's debate. It seems to me that out of a few of the things I've recorded, there was one debate over the endangered areas. In vulnerable areas, i.e. areas that are underdeveloped, municipalities that are underdeveloped should have different reliefs. It is being prepared and the Minister of Economy, I believe in the next month and a half to two, will present the Investment Attraction Act, which will have one of the differentiating factors, precisely on the underdevelopment of the municipalities in which the investment comes. I think that's how this is gonna come back. There was one question about why a minimum of six months at the National Employment Service. In order to address the main problem of unemployment in our country, which is long-term unemployment, which means what's frustrating unemployment, what's under six months, and if we have a lot more, than in other comparable countries... What we want to talk about is people who have been out of work for a long time, and hence their working ability and quality are weak. That's why we want to throw incentives, not all uniform. Someone mentioned trainees, i.e. those who finish schools, are now entering workable, labour force on the labour market, are valid for them for three months, not six months, as before, and remains a trainee status. Finally, there was a question about inspections and certainly what should not be lost from sight is, I said, it seems to me, at the very beginning, that this law must be applied and that it goes parallel to a few things that we do in the economy. There have been talks about it in the presentations of some of the MPs, but it also has to go with more rigorous control of labour market inspections, as well as other inspections, and that is something that will also be carried out. In particular, on these few grudges you've had, these laws on amendments and amendments to the law do not change the quality of service in our healthcare system in any way. So it's changing, and it's not essentially a way of funding. Why the change in funding, it's precisely because you said there was a surplus. I'll explain it in plain language. So we in a few places in the state, for different reasons that I wouldn't go in, we have profit pockets, we have money pockets that are either not used, it's either there or there's more in the flow every year, while in some other places we have a huge deficit, or lack. Whether these are public enterprises, whether these are individual funds at some point, they have resources that we simply lack elsewhere, and we don't have a mechanism, because our laws are so formalized, that we get that money. The change in the rate of contribution allows us to be able to see those savings achieved in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and I think they have been achieved through public procurement and through some other mechanisms in the past, and that we benefit from it at the entire consolidated level of the state. So the whole state will be able to do that. Furthermore, you mentioned, and this is what the Fiscal Council also said, that it is not in line with the world's best tax practice any relief for a particular segment of the population, while this does not apply to others is not in line with the world's best practice. What you said, that under 30 years and over 45 years, is even less in line with best world practice, as such. Regulation, i.e. the law adopted in 2011. What you need to consider is that it is a measure. We have given it two years because we need it in this period, when we have a high level of non-performing claims in the private sector, to enable, or remove any obstacles until the system laws are passed, I will talk about it later, to increase or allow maximum employment. So, as they will be employed under 30 years of age and over 45 years of age, as anyone will be employed at all, I said at the very beginning. This law on changing the rate of contribution and tax relief, as such, will not allow all of them to suddenly get employed and suddenly drop the unemployment rate, but it will help. It will help until the Labour Act, which will be found in the assembly procedure, I believe in the next month, creates conditions on the labour market that will attract investment. By the time these investments come, they create jobs, people are employed, and that is why we need this period of two years that will make tax relief possible. I don't mind, I haven't seen the amendments, but we'll look at them. You yourself said that information is published in the public finances bulletin and as such is publicly available. I don't mind being a newsletter, and this information about this bill, we're delivering it to the National Assembly. No one here is trying to avoid, as you said, the supervisory role of the Republic's parliament. I'm glad to say that reporting on this basis will be easier than before, and that's because we now have a combined charge in the IRS, which will make it possible, and I answer one of your questions in an effective way we're refunding. We have decided to refund it just to avoid it, since we can effectively compare the data between the National Employment Service and the Tax Administration now, any malversions related to the application of this law. Also, there was a proposal from the economy to exclude people who, i.e. the same tax incentives, are applicable to people, those who are Contractors or those who were not at the National Employment Service. I want to explain now that we've decided against it because the intention on one side is that we're shooting right where unemployment is long-term, and also to avoid malfeasance, because we didn't want someone who's now hiring 20 contractors and paying taxes, which is defined by it, to now move on to this relief that would be smaller, because it simply wouldn't achieve any effect, and we also wanted to avoid it, and we were thinking about now firing people to hire them in another company or how and then paying only a third of taxes and contributions to them. The first question I have recorded, which you have asked, is – what is the difference between the payment to the Republic Health Insurance Fund, i.e. the PIO, or the transfer from the level of the Republic budget? The difference is that so far we have not given a transfer to the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The Republic Fund as an independent court, to put it this way, public finances, i.e. the level of government professionally said, had more money in the past year than it needed, people say, while PIO had a huge deficit, about 253 billion dinars for this year. The idea here is to get them that this money that's the Health Insurance Fund, not changing the levels of services that patients, you mentioned, will get, which can certainly be better, so that the money that the Fund would save, and for this year we see that it would be the case, we use somewhere else when we're short of money. As for the debt to pharmaceuticals and public debt conversion, you know that I wasn't when that law was passed, it's certainly not a good practice. We've done it both in public enterprises and elsewhere. In principle, I view this as a technical solution because it is a technical solution and it is only a mirror of this where we are now reducing contributions to the payment of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It's our money, too. The abstracted debt, which the Republic Health Insurance Fund had toward pharmaceutical homes, was also our money. Why this debt came up with a perfectly legitimate issue to deal with, but I think it's a separate topic. As for the effects of law enforcement and how many people, I said it could be fiscally positive. I am deeply skeptical to review how many tens of thousands of people in number will be able to be employed because of this regulation for the simple reason that this regulation is one of the five things that we are going to bring, to call them, a stabilisation package of measures, which precede or should be co-incided with the early application of structural laws that will allow much easier employment, such as the Labour Act and the Law on Civil Servants and a few other laws that we want to pass in that domain. What is certainly the case is that the goal of all of this in terms of economy, and even these structural reform laws, which are often criticised in public, are actually good for the economy and the young people you mentioned, is to increase employment, i.e. to reduce unemployment. The total figures on employment and unemployment levels in terms of both restructuring and other things, which we have discussed, are elements of fiscal consolidation presented in the fiscal strategy. I think you referred those numbers yourself, or someone else did it, I think, this morning. A new projection of this will be if not with budget rebalance, then a few months later when we adopt a new fiscal strategy here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1955	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Gilas. Since I haven't been through, I'll give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1956	I thank you for your exhaustive answers. I want to, since I don't know if you followed Prime Minister Vukic with good attention, he said, quote - the anti-recessions of economic policy measures and the time-limited tax relief when hiring new workers would bear part of the tax. These measures would pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups of the population, young people at the very beginning of their careers and people at the very end of their careers. This isn't in your bill. We have provided for amendments to increase the level of subsidy i.e. tax reliefs for people under 30 and over 55. We simply have to stop the brain drain from Serbia and unless we subsidize employers to prefer to hire young people, we will continue to have a brain drain that is third in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1957	The word is Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1958	Dear People's MPs, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, at the very beginning to say that DS will not vote for the proposed measures because they will not bring anything, absolutely nothing, and all that has been done in the last two years, which brings no improvement in Serbia's economy, economy and living standards. The data you know is about what the deficit is for the first four months, which has crossed 50% of the planned deficit for this year. You know that VAT revenues are also down 14%. You also know that we warned you about when you were passing these laws that an increase in the tax on living goods and other things would not automatically increase revenues in the budget and that this country's only chance of development policy, employment of people, but it will not be without the influence of the state, but not internationalist but investment in the economy of RS. The savings announced and mentioned by you today through the Health Fund are such that budget expenditures are higher in the first four months of this year by 250m euros than last year, while revenues are lower in local self-government budgets, as is already known to all. All this says that the measures taken, as well as these current laws that are ahead of us, which are supposed to enable the alleged increase in employment in Serbia, will not result because on today 30,000 people are less employed than for the first of May of last year. Even if you could imagine how much less would be if it weren't for the employees of the ruling party, about which many people like the few hundred in Bor before the elections, in Majdanpek and wherever, you would realize that the unemployment rate would be not 30, but 100,000 more than it is today. What is mentioned in these laws is a very simple transfer of funds from the Health Fund to the Pension Fund. That's one measure that you said yourself is not a big solution and it won't be a system solution that will be very helpful. The Health Fund's supposed to be in a surplus. He can't even be in a state of law. There is this surplus also because the Law on Public Procurement, which was brought into this House, has made maltenes impossible to implement until the end of a procedure, and companies that are not involved in the tender can also complain. I agree that this law won't change the quality of health care because it's so low that if we cut it down, I don't know what would happen. We need those funds to use. That's what my health colleagues and colleagues will talk about. To reduce waiting lists and not wait for cataract surgery for a few years, artificial hip for a few years. Of course, in a poor country, no one can ask for the quality of health care to be like in some developed European countries and we will never ask for it. That wouldn't be correct. But there are some things that have to change. What happens in Serbia's economic policy, measures such as subsidized loans, we had in 2009 in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic. That year, the GDP decline was 3.5%, 5.4% or 5.7% as far as dinar loans are concerned, will only allow the non-proliferation part of the economy to slightly reprogram its commitments. And you know very well that if you pay back the first war of credit in six months, there is no business that allows you to invest, do something, sell, charge and return that you can repay the loan. It doesn't exist. It's just some work that's been done at the border of the law or on the other side of the law. These are all things that are clear facts and therefore DS and we insist on seeing economic policy in another way. So that we don't keep criticizing without any solutions, I'll just give you a few suggestions, and you can of course think about them and if you think they fit into your policy, some of you can accept. Salary cuts, possible pension cuts announced, reduces consumer power, you know that. People go less to shops, less to buy, less to buy, less to produce, less to produce, less to do, less to work, that's something that's simple, that's the basic principle. What we are proposing is, before the world, an increase in the minimum labour price in Serbia, because today the United States, the UK, is doing the same. It will allow people to make more money to spend that money in Serbia. Eases for employment, I agree that a country like Serbia... There must be something more competitive than those countries that are part of the EU, in our environment, in order for that part of the capital to come to us. It is naive to believe that only by amending legal procedures and regulations will we get an increase in investment. If so, all the countries of this world would attract far more investment than they do today. Investment in the world isn't as much as it used to be 20 years ago when we missed our biggest chance, but not to mention the past, I'm talking about the present and the future. Domestic businessmen are mostly non-equitable. So the only one who can show up as an investor, hire people, start a business is, some will say unfortunately, some fortunately, state. We have to get away from thinking that all public enterprises are just because they're public or state-owned that they're non-profitable, that they can't hold the market. We just bring professional management, but we give real wages, we bring people who work in multinational companies, people from abroad who know, like you came and then they come and they lead it. Today, these public companies are making 50% of the GDP and everybody knows it. There's real management, the state's investment is primarily in agriculture, and some other things that we estimate are valuable, we start the economy, and then the employment measures come in. Of course, the advantage should have the youngest, as counterpart Senic said and some colleagues here, and those over 45, 50 years of age realistically will find work hard at that age. So, we invest in 20 regional centres a certain amount of funding, we estimate at 30 million once, start the economy, make employment possible. When these companies start working, they pull small and medium-sized enterprises with them. If you invest in agriculture, you will need anti-building networks, when you need anti-building networks, then you will get a factory that you can open in some place in Serbia where an investor, like Ivanjica or someplace like that, is difficult. There people work, produce, increase production, increase exports, and make this country a decent place to live. Instead of subsidising the loan, regardless of the bad experience from the past, the development fund and the development banks, we remain on the point of changing the development bank. Let's invite world partners from countries where such banks exist, call KFV or someone like that, make a bank with them, make a professional, real bank that will finance what's important for Serbia. Not banks like today where if you sell the euro today they give you 112, and if you buy it, they give you 118 dinars, where interest rates are as big as they are, because no economy in this world can stand it. When we do all that, then we can talk about incentive measures to hire people, because from that story we can move on. As we deal with the economy and the economy in this way, we will not move forward, while we are talking about the economy of making dwellings for 380 euros by freeing them from paying for infrastructure and land, then bringing others into an unequal position, and then the state buys 40,000 apartments for the military and the police, and why only for the military and the police, and not for teachers, which is not for nurses, and not for people who work in private companies who work in private companies for 15, 20,000 dinars, why just for one part of the population, we will not move forward. You will not have this party's support for these laws, as you will have support if we come to think in the same or similar way. The DS will never support the internationalist market measures that the markets are abolishing, but it will also ask both this government and each government to support citizens to participate in the country's economy in a way that will enable development. I'm going to give you one example, and I'm going to end it, not wanting to waste your time and the time of everyone here, the MPs of the people. In the town of Književac in Serbia, we had a thousand hectares of fruit. The municipal leadership of various parties financed 500 hectares of fruit. You're young, I don't know if you remember, I apologize, but there was a "Jervin" in that library who used to make sodas and jam and some other stuff. Now that we've increased the production of raw materials he's started working again after many years. This is how we operate, with all due respect to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, who is a proven farmer with minimal debts in his firm. I'm telling you, it's the only way to get this country started, how to hire people, how to move this country forward. This is all the rest, marketing, demagogy and petty movements that unfortunately don't lead to any improvement in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1959	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1960	Just to respond to a few comments from the beginning, then I will be happy to debate if there is an interest and alternative direction of economic policy, or alternative economic policy, because I think it is a constructive debate and a real choice, at least a seemingly real choice. As for the deficit for the first four months, what everyone who knows about this is that January and February are traditional months with the lowest tax revenues in the beginning of the year, that in the first quarter about 20% of total income in the second quarter, this is the average of previous years, only 22% of total income comes. So 58% of tax revenues come in the last six months, or the second half of the year. In addition, I would also like to add that the tax calendar has been changed and that the profit tax paid quarterlyly in all previous years, i.e. since March, this year will not be paid until June. Of course, it also contributes to slightly lower incomes. As for the expenditure, we had, it's something we're working on, because it's smart to actually expand it all year round, but in the first six months, the interest payments, especially those on the domestic market, short-term dinar interest, are very important, that is to say, the largest share, and that is precisely at the expenditures that have increased to over a billion euros in the last five years. So that's about the state of the budget, let's put it that way. As for the other measures, let's call them stabilization, which we have adopted or adopted here today, which we have presented as one of the components of the reform measures package, where these reforms have not been passed before. It is true that some of these measures have previously been used, such as subsidized loans, such as in one form or another, and this tax relief, they are not there by themselves to speed up the long-term economy, but they are there to help bridge one period from one year to two days, as much as they are worth, while these structural reforms, which are more extensive and which take time to actually succeed, have taken hold. I don't want to talk about it anymore. As for your proposal for alternative economic policy, it has proved that it has, unfortunately, not been working with us for the last five years. Basically, it doesn't work anywhere. You certainly know that the increase in the minimum labour price in the countries that you mentioned is a measure that deserves attention and deserves thinking, but not when you have 20% unemployment, but when you have an unemployment of 5, 6, or 7%, what is the case, say, with the United States. Then you can increase the employment barriers. When you have a 20% unemployment rate, you want to lower the labour price, here I'm talking about a minimum wage, a minimum labour price, or that at least you keep it constant, or I'm talking about these tax breaks that also reduce the labour price, of course, and quite significantly. In addition to these examples, I would like to set another interesting example, and in the context of the debate that we will certainly have on the Social and Economic Council, as well as on the Government, and on the minimum labour price. We have a case in Switzerland that decided on a referendum a week ago, if I'm not mistaken, that there's no minimum labour price, or to allow flexibility. Of course, I understand that there are different conditions, but it's just saying that it's not going with populist measures, but it's going with things that really make it better in the economy, or in employment. That's what we do here. As for the issues of the Development Bank, issues of regional centres, or investments of approximately 2% of GDP, of 600m euros, if I have correctly multiplied 20 centres times 30m euros, by starting public enterprises as some kind of development motors, in principle in the book, it might have worked properly, but what is in the last five or six years with us? Not much has been achieved in this domain and it is a legitimate topic for discussion. We may be able to get there, but to get there, we need two things. One is to increase the capacity of the state, in the sense that the state, or state administration, whoever makes the decisions on lending, which would be the case of the Development Bank that you mentioned, or possibly the development bank, or investment, on the conduct of business in public enterprises, has to be raised to a whole other level. That's an experienced way of saying it. It has nothing to do with other countries' experiences. It has nothing to do with where we are and who we are, but that it just goes on. It takes one economic cycle, four or five years, not before that. It took Singapore 25 years. Because it takes away different education and different things. What's making it easier for us, I'd say in making a decision that we want to go our separate ways, is that we've been trying to do this for six years in a row, and that's injecting into consumption, specifically. Not even in investment activities, except for a few cases, and that turned out to be the situation we're in, which is just not easy. In that sense, I'm convinced, and it's not ideological persuasion personally, that the state is not a good entrepreneur, at least it didn't prove to be a good entrepreneur for us. It is necessary to meet certain preconditions on which we will work through legislation, through public administration reform and many other things, before this is the case. Until then, I'm deeply convinced, now as finance minister, that we don't need another development bank like we had in the banking sector where we saw the state banks, unfortunately, show up. It's just that example of investment and everything. I don't think public enterprises make much sense either. Where it makes sense to talk about state interference, especially investment, is to improve infrastructure as one of the preconditions of business, especially the private sector. This is where you will see in the fiscal strategy, besides the 2014 Budget Law, that the state actually has a role to play, where we went with the loans. We'll discuss one of them later on this session at the next item of the agenda. Let's say, in agriculture where the state should be the one to define in a centralised way what a agricultural strategy is and to ensure the conditions for these cultures that we're going to talk about and the mechanisms, the ways in which subsidies are to be given so that everything is synchronised and that infrastructure is provided so that they have irrigation and drain canals and everything else we need. Also, in roads and somewhere else, where we'll also debate what's long-term and what makes sense. But pour further and pour especially into consumption, not into investment, we've already done that. Our consumption is 60% imports. That's what we saw that didn't do any good. It's a chain circuit that led us to have to think about drastic fiscal measures and parallelly as we move, while we do those structural reforms on the side of the economy, which are not simple, so they're never done with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1961	The word is made by MP Dragan Gilas, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1962	Dear Mr. Minister, thank you for these answers and for your thoughts. You didn't answer me why it was the biggest deficit in history in March this year, but I wouldn't keep you at it anymore. As for the minimum labour price, it has not been increased for two years, 30% of the people in Serbia are receiving it. Compared to those countries, I agree it's not appropriate. What we're most different about is that you accept the fact that if something didn't work out well in the past, that's how it has to move on. I was the mayor of Belgrade, all the companies here were profitable, we did what we did from the PKK and how it will continue to develop. What you say, We will spend much time to get to it, until then it is a question of who survives and who does not survive. Of course, if we're talking about Railways, which Mr. Simonovic, who finishes at the Faculty of Business in Banja Luka in 53, has no experience, he can't run it. Of course, he couldn't run Milan Markovic, who was then appointed by the DS, because he had a law school, but had no experience in it. But if we say -- neither can Markovic, nor can Simonovic, but a man who knows and gives him the right salary and that he can make the right management team, he can start it. It has nothing to do with the parties, it has to do with the economy and the economy. Last thing, I'm not taking up much more time. As far as the Development Bank is concerned, of course, if we make it so that politicians influence it, nothing will happen to it. If we invite foreign partners and foreign banks, and you know that France just a year ago and a few days ago entered something like that, if we invite them to be our partners, to prevent these things from happening, then that bank can have a future, it's not commercial, it has its place in this country. So just because something was wrong, which I accept for many things, doesn't mean that today can't be better if we all have the strength together to make that step, get out of party stories and get into the story of making this country another way. Anyway, thanks again for the answers you gave me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1963	The word has Minister Kristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1964	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. I'm just saying that with that, of course, I don't have a problem in principle. What's more, I think KFW, which is a German development bank, or some other development banks can function properly. Railways can also be viewed in different ways. The European Union means a certain restructuring that would certainly have to happen, and this applies to most of the other infrastructure projects. The fact is, I just want to be very clear, what it is and in this context I represent this measure that we are currently talking about and tax relief and everything else, that there are different horizons, there are stabilization horizons, there are a couple of years and there is an economic cycle of four or five years. No one says that if we are fiscally in line and we have foreign investments, domestic investment that has triggered the economy, we have detached a node in the banking sector, and I believe that we can do all of this in the next two to three years, that it is not meaningful to talk about what is the investment of the state and whether the state can have a development bank or not. It's not a question, but it just, you know, goes that saying I heard a few years ago -- when you're doing the same thing, and you expect another result, that's the definition of madness. We just don't have the luft anymore, we don't have the fiscal space and we can't afford it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1965	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1966	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, you said in your explanation this morning two very important reasons why amendments and additions to these two laws should be adopted, although we have heard different opinions today during the parliamentary debate, which is common and perfectly normal. Your first reason, on the basis of which you recommended MPs to support this law in the voting day, is a relief for new employment of between 65 and 75%, depending on the number of employees, where you said very clearly and precisely that it was only one measure that would curb the grey economy. The second reason why you recommended that we support the Proposer in Voting Day is that amendments to the Law on Income Tax and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Social Insurance change the amount of the contribution rate for the PIO and the Health Insurance Fund by transferring the weight from the Health Insurance Fund to the PIO Fund. It is clear that the proposaler's intention, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, is to strengthen the investment environment in Serbia and speed up fiscal consolidation by amending and supplementing this law. These are, in my opinion, two very important arguments that will allow the New Serbia parliamentary group to support the bill in the voting day. This law makes it very clear that a partial and temporary exemption from the obligation to pay taxes, as well as contributions to compulsory social security, is stimulated by the existing and new employers for legal employment. I have to say, the truths for the sake of this, that these incentives existed in the previous law, except that they are not properly exploited and that these amendments and additions of the Law define them in a much more precise way, that is, the notion of new employees and what is very important – all existing restrictions and discriminatory provisions are abolished when it comes to years of life, work experience and so forth. I also think it is very important that in a precise way a set of deadlines for the relief of entrepreneurs for employment, that is this 31 March 2014 and that the possible abuses are reduced in this way. I also find it very important that, in a very precise way, it determines and reduces abuses and the fact that the registered workers must be in the employment service for a period of six months. So, this provision, in my opinion and opinion of my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, should further prevent abuses in employment, which is also the opinion of the Fiscal Council. The Government's intention is to stimulate the transition of a number of workers from the gray zone to legal frameworks, although the Fiscal Council expects that, on the basis of this measure alone, this will not be enough and that, in the opinion of this body, it is very important to stimulate and strengthen the tax administration, so that the functioning of the tax authorities is incomparably more effective than the present case. I think it's very important that we hear different opinions, as is the opinion of the Fiscal Council. However, in addition to a number of criticisms referred to in this law, the Fiscal Council also addressed certain positive recommendations, i.e. it agreed with certain provisions of this law, in particular in the fact that the Fiscal Council considers that an increase in pension contributions from 24% to 26% and a reduction in the health rate from 12.3 to 10.3 is a correct and extorted solution, as the Health Insurance Fund has recorded a mild surplus in the past period, which is not the case with the pension fund. This solution should, in the fiscal council's view, have a certain impact on the reduction of the budget deficit. New Serbia's MP group, when it comes to amending and supplementing this law, has reacted to a single amendment, which my colleague Dragan Jovanovic will discuss more, using the time of the parliamentary group, but I would ask you to pay attention to the amendment, as it practically predicts that employment of persons with disabilities is being stimulated. I would like to tell you once again that the New Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the amendments and additions of these two laws, because we believe it is necessary to support the government of the Republic of Serbia in order to speed up fiscal consolidation as quickly as possible and to begin with the process and measures to reduce the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1967	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1968	Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to today's debate, and I am sorry that she has only experienced a certain deviation before the end, so we have talked about everything but the amendments and additions of these two laws. There was talk of professionalising public sector work and when this criticism comes from someone who had all the possibilities and all the power to make such a professionalization of the public sector in that part he was entrusted with do and do, and he didn't, then it's either an ex-post mind or an extremely malicious criticism. For SNS, it is a clear message that has been sent in the exposé, and also in the election campaign, and now, because we do not have an ex post mind, but a policy that we are implementing. There is a clear attitude towards the public sector, a clear attitude towards the private sector as well. Public sector and public enterprises cannot be the generator of one country's development. It's unsustainable in the long run. It has been shown in the past that such a thing is impossible, as many as we are patriots and as much as we want these public enterprises to be strong, to be generators of development, to be a moto development. We have also proven ourselves not to be good tutors, not to be good hosts in this public sector. A clear signal we want to show both domestic and foreign investors, we want to show both domestic and foreign public, we also want to show young people who are now at the end of their education and at the beginning of their careers, that the motto and generator of the development of each society, and the Serbian society that we want to build – is a stable private sector. The state with its tools, with its public enterprises, must be exclusively a service in the service of the economy and in the service of the citizens. Something like that is necessary. I am pleased that we have all agreed here and that you, Mr. Minister, have put the point that the unsustainable and unsustainable banking sector according to the "Development Bank" model or "Agrobank" model, where credits were obtained in good sight, in honor of the word, on "mothers, I will repay the loan" and that the bill for both these loans and for those interest rates came to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, in the voting day, the SNS will support these two laws on amendments and amendments to the law, because we believe that our society, unfortunately, has suffered three major diseases. Three wounds were inflicted on our society, and these bill proposals provide solutions. Maybe not the fateful one, but powerful enough signals and a good enough cure to at least two of those three diseases are partially eliminated. When I talk about the diseases of our society, I primarily think about corruption, the gray economy, and the great unemployment. The Serbian Progressive Party has no responsibility for these diseases that attacked our society. The responsibility for these diseases, for these wounds, has been borne by political actors who led this country, led this government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia until 2012. They also have a responsibility because these diseases have arisen. They are also responsible for reacting to these diseases with sugar water and aspirin, which is why they closed their eyes out of political ignorance or because of the lack of desire to cure these diseases. When we talk about corruption, much has been said and done over the past two years in the fight against corruption. The fight against corruption has its nominal amount, as well as these other pains. We were on the world's anti-corruption list 78. In a year's dedicated SNS and Mr. Alexander Vukic, who was in charge of the fight against corruption crime during the previous government, we have progressed six places. Let's move on. When criticism and about these laws comes from the same people who told us two years ago - no, you have no capacity, no strength, no will to fight corruption, and then we hit the strongest, not us, either of us, the system institutions - the prosecution, the judiciary, the police, those who have legal opportunities and legal rights to investigate and do all that, then they told us - no, you will not go further, you will not hit your coalition partners, you prefer power, you prefer the chair, so some people who are members of the political parties of our coalition partners have been processed. Then they said, "No, you will not, you will fight against crime and corruption, and you will protect your own." In a difficult day for SNS in the same home of the National Assembly, immunity to the SNS MP was lifted so that he could be prosecuted on the basis of the prosecution's request for organised crime. Zero tolerance for crime and corruption and no protection in the fight against crime and corruption. It's SNS policy. Why am I telling you this? Because the same people instead of saying I'm sorry, instead of cheering in that fight to beat the state, not the party, cheer the fight to fail because of petty political points. Now let's move on. Now we're going to say new things and now we're going to continue with cataclysmic announcements. No one in Serbia believes that. When it comes to the gray economy, and these laws target one domain of the gray economy and it refers to working on black. Unfortunately, it's so popular in Serbia. I'm sure none of us 250 MPs exist that he doesn't know anyone who is at some point, and maybe he's not working on black now. The size of the grey economy is 15% higher than in other countries in Eastern and central Europe. A third of Serbia's GDP emerges and disappears without supervision in the grey economy. It's a state that's unsustainable. What's the difference between fighting the gray economy sometimes and now? I'm not saying that the struggle against the gray economy in the past wasn't strong enough, it wasn't durable enough and it failed because it didn't give opportunities. With these laws, Mr. Minister, both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia gave the employers the opportunity to give themselves up. You've given them the opportunity to introduce all those people who are currently working on black, without pension and social security, and I say without the present and without the future, because a man who can't be treated right now because he doesn't have a health book has no present, and without a pension and an expectation of a pension in the future, he doesn't have a future. To such employers, the Government of the Republic of Serbia sends a clear message – here you are, you have the law, you do legal flows, you will not pay for the next three years, or you will be refunding 70% of the tax paid. Whoever wants to benefit from this will not tremble in front of the inspection bodies tomorrow, will not think about what will happen to his firm or how much punishment he will pay for having black workers. On the other hand, the army of people who unfortunately work in the gray and black zone will have both the present and the future, will have pension and social, will have health care and will have a future to believe in. This is the difference between the grey economy and the past government and the current government of the Republic of Serbia. The fight against the gray economy is definitely one of the priorities of this government. The consolidation that the state needs in the next three years is about 150 billion dinars. The goal is to bring down the grey economy to the level of the average of the new EU member states, and it would amount to 20 billion dinars per year. That's what's expected, a level we can make in the future. As far as unemployment is concerned, it is a subject that is very painful for many citizens of our country. It is painful for those people who were in 2008, believing in some pre-election promises, and there were 400,000 cheated, to get new jobs. It is also painful for those 400,000 people who lost their jobs by 2012. I will choose the terms carefully because, because of the terms that meant the truth, I received a sentence in the last term. I hope, General, you don't consume such a business opportunity. Overall, the unemployment rate was 13.3% in Serbia in April 2008. I know that someone will now answer and say – well, but then there was no global economic crisis. Yeah, but I'm going to say in advance that there wasn't an irresponsible policy that's been going on since 2008, which told us that the crisis was a chance, that the crisis wouldn't touch us, that there wasn't such a policy, we wouldn't get this rise in unemployment rate. This is the NBS data. They're not as obvious or as I'd like them to be, because if they were what the SNS would want them to be, they'd probably be at the level of 2008. They grew progressive and the government closed its eyes before such a phenomenon. In October 2008 - 14%, in October 2009 – 16.6%, in October 2010 – 19.2%, in October 2011 – 23.7%, in April 2012 – 25.5%. That's the unemployment rate. The previous government of the Republic of Serbia managed to stop that rate. We're not happy with stopping. Both the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS made a clear promise and a pre-election promise, but not only a promise that will be forgotten, which is one of the components of the political folklore, but an amanet that we want that unemployment rate not to be reduced dramatically. We are not satisfied with the current 20.8% according to the NBS, although the responsibility for such an unemployment rate is not borne by the SNS. This is a way for a large number of people who work not only in the gray zone, not only those people who are now finishing schools, colleges, not only those people who have no opportunities, nor the desire to go abroad, but who want to start a working relationship here, this is a way to reach this working relationship based on their knowledge, based on the school they have completed, based on experiences they have gained by working relationship, not because of political belongings or on the knowledge of someone who has political power. I'll just tell you one more thing, when it comes to the unemployment rate, how much that unemployment rate cost us because of the irresponsible policy in the past. One Poland managed to attract 20 billion euros, which opened 186,000 jobs, with openness, good business and fiscal policy, and we lost 400,000 jobs in four years. You see the level of investment needed to attract to our country, so that only those people who lost their jobs in four years and the responsibility of those people who can't and can't be just political, so to say – we lost in the elections, and that's quite enough. Different countries have had different relationships and incentives measures for the unemployed. That's why I really don't understand what this best or worst world practice means in terms of employment. What, then, are we going to call a practice that, for example, is in Montenegro, which targets subsidies for hiring certain categories of persons with at least 40 years of life? What should I call it, then, is that in best practice, in Bulgaria for the unemployed up to 29 years? Everyone had some limitations. Only this law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not contain restrictions on all unemployed people, with clear restrictions on the legal who can expect to recover those funds and who can't. Anyone who has used any subsidies to create jobs cannot, on a double basis, expect and recover funds from taxes. Anyone who thinks about firing people now and re-enlisting them in a month can also not consume the effects of this law. As for the very concerns for Serbia's health system, 18 billion dinars will be less, i.e. the spill from the Health Insurance Fund into the PIO Fund. It's normal for the state to behave according to the system of connected courts. Someone who's a technical face will understand what that means. We can't treat the state like we're just individuals, like a du are institutions that are individually complicated somewhere. They are connected by one thread, and that thread is the state of Serbia. It's normal where there's a consolidated budget, where there's some kind of surplus, to move to places where there's a deficit. Of course, that reduction will not affect the operations of the Health Insurance Fund itself. The Health Insurance Fund employs 104 people, 99 billion dinars is the annual budget for salaries of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Do you think these people sat with their hands cut, do you think they were just waiting for someone to come and say – 18 billion dinars in a pension fund? No, they have prepared measures both within the Fund and within the Ministry of Health, measures to stamp out those 18 billion dinars. A new system of paliative care will be introduced and about 3,000 hospital beds will be converted into paliatical care hospitals, which means cost reduction. Domestic treatment and care services will be strengthened. The introduction of an electronic recipe will reduce drug costs by at least 30% early next year, which means savings of nearly 100m euros will be achieved, etc. These are the measures that will be defended here by the Minister of Health and the Director of the Health Insurance Fund, because the state behaves according to the system of merged courts, because the people representing this country have a clear strategy, and this Government of the Republic of Serbia, have a clear strategy for the measures and incentives they perform. Finally, I will tell you that the SNS parliamentary group will support these measures and these two draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law, because we believe that they will have a strong impact on improving the investment environment, reducing the grey economy, perhaps not for that seven-mile step, but one step at a time that will lead to that desired goal and the desired level of gray economy. It will increase the number of employees, but budget revenue is also up to 10,000 new employees, as you said, about fivem euros. However, the greatest advantage of these bill proposals that we will plead in the coming days is that it gives security to both the employer and the newly employed, the employer that he can do his job, develop his business, think about business matters, not shivering before inspection. I support the announcement that you, Mr. Minister, have said that the inspection bodies will do their job, but the message these two laws provide, that employees in Serbia also have the present through the possibility of health insurance, treatment and all that is obtained through health insurance, but also have a future through the expected and earned pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1969	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1970	This was one of the most flagrant violations of the Rules of Procedure of Article 106, because you allowed the previous speaker that, according to my humble record, for 11 minutes and 50 seconds, we have not heard any comment on these laws, and you have allowed it, only in the end, where we have heard that it is all right and it will be good, but in this case we have not heard why, nor how. Please intervene in the future. I understand that we all have a chance to get away from the subject a little bit, it's necessary because of the context in which we're talking, but just enough to allow 20 minutes to talk. I am pleased to inform you that I will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1971	I'll give you a comment. I have to admit that I agree with you in part, but I expected everything to go to the agenda. And it's my impression that he was more critical of other exhibitions, but good. I still don't think it was such a breach of the Rules of Procedure that I had to intervene. I've been a little more tolerated, but it's your right to state if you want to make a statement in the voting day. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1972	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. I don't think you listened with enough attention when I spoke 19, 20 minutes ago because the target of these laws is to reduce the unemployment rate and reduce the grey economy. Who doesn't answer to hear about the level and the reasons and the culprits for such a situation in our society...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1973	Mr. Babic, I gave you the right to injure the Rules of Procedure. You're talking about the replica now. Please explain how there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is a member and to explain it, and not now to do a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1974	Members 104, 105 and 106 of your individual thinking and your impression of my presentation, Mr. Chairman, is individual. I am also speaking to Mr. Minister and 250 MPs and the public who are listening to us right now. One more sentence, from the one who made this condition where our society is located and I don't expect it to understand the steps of getting out of this state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1975	Unfortunately, in that sense, Mr. Babic, I will accept that the thing is individual how who experiences whom and whose exposure has a lot of influence. All in all, I did realize, though, it seems to me, and I concluded that your intention was well-intentioned, and that's why I didn't interrupt you in the presentation, but I also considered it necessary to accept the part and my responsibilities that I might not have channeled you a little bit, so there would be no such misunderstandings. You have the right to plead in the voting day. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1976	The Honorable Chairman, I would not really answer, but he is a injured member of 107 because the previous speaker questioned your position, as the chairman of the Assembly, by saying that it was your personal opinion, as if you were not the speaker of the assembly, and then insulted the National Assembly, because he said that we cannot, some of us, understand the measures. We just don't know what the measures are, because he wasn't talking about anything that has "m" at the beginning of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1977	Thank you. I really didn't see it that way, so I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Since representatives of the parliamentary groups have completed their presentations, we are moving to the order of MPs on the registered list. The first is National MP Ljiljana Kosoric. Please sign in. Here you go, Ljiljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1978	The respected presidency, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, Serbia's priority is to reform the business environment and create one condition for new investment and employment. The proposal for today's law makes it easier for the private sector to encourage employment and return of paid contributions. Today's legislation changes the level of pension-inhabited insurance rates from 24% to 26% and for health insurance from 12.3% to 10.3%, but the reduction of health insurance contributions also reduces the income of RZZO by around 18 billion dinars by the end of the year. The Health Fund, which is not in such a good situation today, will certainly be povertyed by this reduction in the contribution, because these allocations are one of the most regular ones, because the employer pays every month in the payment of salaries to the Health Insurance Fund. On the other hand, we have farmers who pay very little health insurance, because there are a lot of problems and I believe that, although there have been attempts to make some reliefs, this sector, i.e. farmers and their health insurance cannot be resolved without the help of the state. Then, children, pregnant women, foster parents, even though they do not have health insurance, are released from payments and can have a health book. The benefits of restructuring companies, as well as the whole of Article 22, have been allocated to them. Insurance laws, where they belong over 65 years old and unemployed. I am not going to state this whole law, but as a doctor, I really believe that all 7.2 million Serbian citizens should have health insurance, because then they will not only call when necessary healthcare is needed, but also when it is necessary to prevent, when it is necessary to deal with prevention. However, on the other hand, these financial indicators are much more inexorable. According to the RZO financial plan, 290 euros per capita for their treatment is foreseen for 6.9 million insurance for this year 2014. In any case, this is a major shift compared to last year when 5.5 million citizens were actively insured and there were 230 euros per capita for health care. This is certainly a shift, where 1.4 million citizens are believed to be insured this year, which is good, but I don't know if a 166-euro figure is enough. If medical staff are taken away, 166 euros remains for checks, operations, medicines and all other needs that the patient needs. It's five times less sum than it's in the environment, almost five times. Let's say, if we compare ourselves to Croatia's annual segregation is 780 euros per capita. In Slovenia, 1,250 euros and Germany more than 3,500 euros. But what does this mean to us? If we compare Serbia and if we rank towards the countries where we want to meet, according to EU countries, if we want to be that 29 member, according to the natural age Serbia is 20 places, the average age of the population is 21 places, and the expected age compared to the number of people born in 29, last place, the mortality from malignant, cardiovascular diseases is at the very top, the number of doctors in 1000 population is 25. What does that tell us? First of all, I think we need a good plan, a common plan, the joint operation of the complete ministry, the state and all employees. I think that this plan exists, there are well-designed strategies from various areas, and we just need to respect them, and that requires money. That's why healthcare needs money. When I'm talking about this part, I'd say for health workers, they've been carrying a burden of various hardships for years, a crisis, and I wouldn't want it to happen tomorrow if doctors were to feel these economic measures on their shoulders by various RZO committees, because in medicine, two and two are often not four. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that in the case of missing resources, and it will certainly be for a variety of needs, the necessary medical care facilities and the entire health sector are found, because I think health is a priority, because a healthy nation is a happy nation, healthy people are able to work and build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1979	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1980	Two bad laws in five minutes, that's a big task, but I'll try to give you the most important piece of the review. The income tax is a continuation of the poor measures introduced in May 2011, which have not produced any results. These are the same measures, only with other attributes. They don't matter anymore. It is now not 30 years old and over 45 years old, but it is dealt with in a different way, but with chances of reducing the grey economy, increasing the number of employees, repairing the Serbian economy are the same chances as those measures three years ago, and none of these measures were. I don't think there's much to talk about. The thing is to cut public costs, to create an environment for employers. I don't know if there's any minister in the Serbian government who's ever been able to hire or create conditions for work, but real employers should be allowed to work under the law without a lot of doctoring and without a lot of intelligence in the state. That's what we agree on. When the minister talks outside the reasoning of the law, the story is great. I couldn't agree more, but what you deliver to us afterwards as a bill has nothing to do with your story. Reduce public costs. We'll give amendments to this bill with an increase in the rate of vomiting from the salary tax. I hope it's just one of those five, six measures you said we'd see in the near future. What is a bigger problem is the Law on Social or Transfer Contributions 18 billion dinars this year, i.e. 155m euros from the Health Fund, which is in surplus of the Pension Insurance Fund, which is in deficit. By what parameters, apart from naked accounting, can someone say that the Health Fund, that Serbia's health is in surplus? Was anyone from the current government in the hospital? It was supposed to be to see what the situation was like there. He's been waiting there for months, half a year, a year for a scan, a year, a year and a half, two years for surgery. We treat our kids with text messages and someone can tell them to write that the Health Fund is in surplus, that they're connected courts. It's a crime, unless it's part of a long strategy to lower the number of people who will receive pensions by poor health care, so that the pension fund's costs are reduced indirectly. It's an inadmissible thing. Thirty billion on an annual basis will be a reduction in the health care fund's revenues. That's 260m euros. Tell me one hospital, say one place in Serbia, tell me one clinic, tell me any part of Serbian health care where there is excess. Look at what hospitals look like, whether they're painted, not to mention the equipment, not to mention whether there's any drugs, whether there's any consumable material. People have been waiting months for a cure to appear. They have to buy the drugstores that aren't on the list, buy the basics that are needed for the operation, for the surgery of the children, for the surgery of the elderly. The pension fund is in big trouble. It's not the pensioners' fault, but this isn't the solution. I think the pensioners agree with that. This way, if you deny health care, adequate healthcare, and there is a threat that the quality of healthcare will not change, and we are the worst in Europe, and probably not just in Europe for the quality of healthcare. Please let us go of any demagogy. Here we talk about health care, about the health of the nation. It's a topic where there's no need to take action just because they're the party's proposal. I'm sure most MPs of the ruling majority feel the same way, but because of their responsibility to their parties, they can't say that. I urge you, Minister, to withdraw this bill and save both the soul and Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1981	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1982	Mr. Chairman, please, Article 107, introduce this session into normal flows. I ask you not to allow it, and this National Assembly is composed of 250 MPs who are the owners of their mandate, who have the right to think and vote as they think, that no one has the right to speak for anyone else. Maybe it's at the time of Mr. Zivkovic's democracy and his understanding of democracy and how he conducted democracy by burning this assembly. On the other hand, I also do not allow, Mr. Chairman, that you do not interrupt the session at the moment the previous speaker comes to accuse the state of treating people who are sick in Serbia this way because they do not want to welcome a pension. Now, that's a crime. Such a claim is a crime and such a claim is a claim made by someone who has strayed from the entire two members of his political party in politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1983	Mr. Babic, I don't think Mr. Zivkovic... After all, it is your right to plead in the voting day. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, does it seem to me that you've signed up or given up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1984	Since the whole exposure was about the quality of health care and how these laws will affect the quality of health care and its funding - will not. So, we don't claim finance laws to change the quality of healthcare, so I don't know why you spent four out of five minutes of your exposure on the subject. The point and what needs to be very clear is that the only thing that changes here is the way of funding the Health Insurance Fund. Those eight billion dinars, which remained more in the Health Insurance Fund last year, were not spent on something else that could have been spent on. In doing so, two and a half billion euros were spent in the Pension Insurance Fund. So this is a simple financial measure, and all the funds missing from the Health Insurance Fund to carry out what is stipulated under the law and what they planned will be replaced by the transfer of the budget and that will be seen and we will discuss it. That's what we need to discuss when we discuss budget rebalancing. For the first time, and then the budget next time and that's what it's all about. As far as coverage, quality of health care and health care is concerned at all, it's a subject we certainly need to address, but it's certainly not a topic for today's session, I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1985	Thank you, Minister. On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You may be by the minister mentioned. He was just responding to your discussion. Therefore, you have no right to a replica. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1986	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may I have your attention, please? By changing these two laws, we need to pass what we talked about both in the campaign and all this time since I've been sitting in these assembly benches, which is primarily to speed up employment. What I sincerely hope is, what the government has to send out when it comes to the application of these two laws is, above all, that people who have worked black so far, or all their incomes have been hidden in that so-called gray zone. Therefore, I would support the presentation of my predecessors who spoke a lot about the urgency of inspections that, when these two laws are amended, must be much more up-to-date. And what I would particularly like to say is that this information that we've heard about the surplus in the Health Fund is especially looking forward to me. I have to admit, but one thing I wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister, is to pay attention, my colleagues also mentioned here farmers, or farmers, and the huge debts these people have towards the Health Insurance Fund. What exactly is this about? Farmers, who live and who may or may not be the most affected by these natural disasters and floods that took place in Serbia, have problems when they want to verify the health book today and go to the branch of the local tax administration to get confirmation and go to the social checkbook, they are asked to retroactively pay health insurance first for the previous year, and they may not have been treated at all in state institutions or if they were treated with privates, they had to pay. I think they're the only populations, people who live in land, who have to pay retroactively for something they didn't use. For that reason, sir, I think it would be fair and just, because of all these and now the damages and the hardships that farmers have in general, the peasants in Serbia, that by the end of 2013, they simply delete these obligations, or that they are reduced to the least possible but reasonable measure, which these people could pay. I would remind you and all fellow MPs that we today have in central Serbia, in Shumadia, every other peasant who has an untrustworthy health book and cannot be treated. If it's already true that we have a surplus in the Health Insurance Fund, then it would be fair and just for us to help these people to be able to verify the books and treat themselves normally. Something about this was said by my colleagues from Koseric and I can absolutely support them and please take this seriously. On the other hand, something my colleague Filipovski mentioned was that in these amendments the law should pay particular attention to these so-called so-called laws. The vulnerable groups, and here we think first of all of disabled faces. The changes, of course, retain the old proposal, which is that companies that employ disabled people and disabled persons are freed from paying contributions to those persons for three years. I must remind you that the procedure itself, the procedure of proving that you hired such a person is very complicated, and unfortunately, the application and effects of this law would be more significant if this procedure could be simplified. What I would suggest and what I'm going to say when it comes to this detail law is that we try to further stimulate in the first year all employers who hire people with any kind of handicap or disability to get additional subsidies from the state in the first year, in the first 12 months, because we still have a huge number of people, some figures say there are between 50 and 70,000 now on the bureaus, or national employment services. So these are persons with certain types of disability and who are very difficult to get employment in the labour market today. I sincerely hope that the amendments to these two laws, I already did that at the beginning of the exposure and I said, stop the work on black. If there's anything we need all of us to do together, it's to cut down on that so-called. A gray zone, and I'm saying, at the very end of this exhibit, I have to call you, as a resolute minister and your colleagues, you need to speed up the work of inspections on the ground, and that's what's crucial. We can pass any laws here, but if they are weak and not applied at all, and there are primarily competent inspection services, then we here can vote anything. Of course, in the day of voting, I will vote in favour of the proposals of these laws, as well as my colleagues from New Serbia, and I hope that both in the debate and in particular, we will try to, in particular, try to help this group, which I have said, the employment of people, or the disabled, to help further with your authority, and to further help this group that is very threatened. Thank you so much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1987	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branka Karavidic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1988	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, both of these laws were brought before MPs by emergency procedure. I do not dispute the need for them to vote urgently in the context of activities in implementing measures of economic reform, but there was no public debate. In August 2013, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an action plan to implement a national anti-corruption strategy that represents concrete measures and activities to realise the targets in the fight against corruption. One of these measures in the field of political activity is the establishment of mechanisms that would allow interested parties and the public to participate in the regulation process at all levels of government. Hiding for reasons of urgency, the government does not respect existing regulations either. How do you believe that the government will implement the proposed measures if it does not show by its political will now to show by its practice that it is ready to show that it is to become new standards and create an environment for fighting corruption? The State Administration Act stipulates that the work of the state authorities is public, and that the ministries have an obligation to conduct a public debate when preparing a regulation governing issues of particular interest to the public. In the preparation process, as explained in both of these draft laws, the law was delivered only to the competent ministries and the competent authorities, so that no public debate on them was conducted. We will agree that the amendments to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, as well as the abolition of tax exemptions, as well as the measures to stimulate the employment of certain categories of unemployed issues which are particularly interested in the public. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax are abolished by the current tax exemption that stimulated the employment of unemployed up to 30 years of age and persons over 45 years of age. The current tax exemption for these categories shall be released by the employer of the obligation to pay taxes for a period of three or two years. The proposed changes impose higher costs on employers when hiring unemployed people, because they have to pay taxes, so that they demand a refund unlike an existing solution where it did not have to be done. This is certainly not a stimulating measure that would stimulate an increase in the number of employees. In this way, employers are burdened without having previously created an ambience to increase productivity and make profits. The proposed solution is absolutely inapplicable because it implies the existence of a large number of employers who have the means to cover initial employment costs. The proposed measures destimulate youth employment up to 30 years, create more difficult employment conditions for more than 213,000 unemployed, as many as were recorded by the National Employment Service in March 2014, representing 27% of the total number of unemployed. The same situation will include those unemployed who fall under the category of more employable ones, which are over 55 years old, and they were registered in March 2014, which is 14% of the total number of unemployed. This further creates pressure on the social security system. In addition, this category of unemployed people is forced to work on black to ensure their existence. If we just put an accent on these two categories, we can conclude that the proposed measures are making conditions worse for more than 40% of unemployed citizens. I will remind you, in his exhibition, the prime minister said of limited tax incentives when hiring new workers – these measures would pay particular attention to the most vulnerable groups of the population, young people at the very beginning of their careers and people who are at the very end of their careers. There are no amendments or additions to the law in this proposal. The proposed measures are not in line with the Prime Minister's exposé, and I think that's one of the most important things. My colleagues and I have tried to fix this with amendments. So the proposed solution is far worse than the existing one. It does not stimulate employers who do not have additional resources for initial employment costs. Unfortunately, there will be no increase in the number of employees, so the state's income will not increase either. Elimination of existing tax reliefs further makes it impossible for employers to, under conditions that they can handle, employ new workers in a larger number. There are no mechanisms to protect against possible abuses by unconscious employers. There is also a complete analysis of the effects of the regulation, no expected number of newly employed persons, which categories of unemployed persons will particularly feel benefit. What effect does such a stimulating measure have on the category of young people up to 30 years of age or on the category of employment? How many countries are going to benefit from the application of these measures? You're saying in your explanation that the expected income is half a billion per 10,000 employees. What is the projected employment dynamic? That's all the questions we expect from you. We are interested in what is the initial cost of employers of each category that they have to bear in order to achieve tax relief and how many such employers in Serbia can actually employ unemployed, of course under these new circumstances? In your explanation, you point out in particular that the Ministry of Finance has periodically published newsletters as well as in other appropriate ways additionally provides transparency, information and access to information to help achieve the objectives set by the law. I agree with you that these activities may be support for the enforcement of the rules, but I cannot provide a formation of the effects of the regulations. I propose that the resolution ministries inform the Assembly three months on the effects of the application of this law, on the number of new employees, on the inflow of funds into the budget, etc. Thus, the control function of the Assembly, which is in its jurisdiction, would be applied. As regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, the proposed solution also stands with regard to the aggregate rate of contribution, it remained unchanged. However, it is increasing by 2% of the contribution rate for compulsory pension and disability insurance, thus increasing the income of the PIO Fund by 18 billion dinars by the end of the year and reducing 2% of the contribution rate for compulsory health insurance, which will affect the reduction of the income of the Republic Health Insurance Fund by 18 billion dinars by the end of the year. There is no change in the aggregate rate of contribution, but there are cuts in revenues from the Health Insurance Fund by 18 billion dinars. Another system that has long been matured for reforms is our health system. Serbia has recently been ranked last in the category in Europe, and the government aims to move Serbia from the post for the next four years. The reaction of our health system is inadequate. People wait for months before the doctor can take them. Regular people in our country who have no ties or money are neglected and do not have the opportunity to be examined immediately. These are the words of the prime minister, who described in his exposé the state of health in our country, stating that reforms of the system are necessary. Is this a reduction in revenue from the Health Fund the first step towards announced reforms? If you say that in the preparation process this law has been submitted to the competent ministries and other competent authorities to declare it, I assume that both the Minister of Health and the Director of the Fund have had the opportunity to express their views on the proposed law. I'm interested in how the effects of the law have been declared if they had any information that healthcare will be denied by the end of this year by 18 billion dinars? Is this the real effect of reducing the Fund's resources, if we know that a reduction in salaries and the number of public sector employees has been announced? Does the Fund's revenue reduction mean a reduction in the quality of healthcare services? Will the volume of the prescribed services be reduced? Will all specialist reviews be available to citizens? Will participation be increased and a positive list of medicines will be reduced? This will especially affect the most vulnerable, and these are the old, the children and the unemployed. This is additional pressure on citizens to pay for treatment services in private clinics. It will also increase health corruption due to revenue cuts. You're saying there's a surplus in the Health Insurance Fund. Why wasn't he used to improve the quality of health services? At the very least, there is a discrepancy between the Prime Minister's exposé and these proposed amendments to the laws that are before us. Therefore, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, will not vote in favour of these draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1989	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, and let MP Borislav Stefanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1990	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, that the SDPS always strongly supports the laws and legal solutions that, for their main objective, are to encourage employment and resolve, in our opinion, the biggest problems in our country, which is a high unemployment rate. What we are concerned about is that at the end of 2013, we have over 13,000 companies that were wiped out by the Business Registers Agency, more than 46,000 companies in January of this year, which are in an active account blockade, and more than 100,000 businesses and entrepreneurs who have been in some kind of blockage account for more than 180 days. The highest percentage of these companies were in those blockades precisely because they owed high amounts for taxes and contributions on the basis of commitments for employee earnings. What interests us most is how to avoid what is called "over-lenting" in the economy, so overlapping all these subsidies that the state and government give to potential investors and businesses. What matters most to us is that we focus all our attention on micro-small and medium-sized enterprises and so on. "start app to companies", therefore, those people we will encourage, who we will try to encourage to start their business and to hire people. I believe that we have done a lot in this policy of attracting foreign investment and I am concerned that this law in some domain may be more useful to those large investors who already have great benefits when it comes to their capital and their investment. I will remind you that the Law on corporate tax in Article 50 clearly states that those who employ more than 100 people are exempt from profit tax, that many local self-government, we have had the opportunity to hear it in previous debates, release the same investors from profit tax. The question is how will it be controlled, because if we take it more seriously and analyze all these subsidies, it may happen to us that the job to a foreign investor, a large investor, is actually those investors who will potentially employ more than 100 people, because in the past few years, five or six years there are not many domestic businessmen who have hired so many people, unfortunately, we will come to this situation to pay for the job of 20,000 to 30,000 euros. Our parliamentary group considers the foreign investor environment to be quite correct and quite good. We have submitted one amendment which implies that this two-year period applies to micro and small enterprises and to "start a business" and when large investors and large enterprises are concerned that this period is reduced to six months, so that they do not come into a position to get these investors, invest here, pay the state nothing because they are exempt from profit tax, freed from a large percentage of income tax, local self-government pays them an electricity connection that costs them in most cases about half a million euros, even a travel infrastructure, provide them with halls, provide them with land and those after four – five years can, when they earn enough money, given that we have cheap labour here, to go to some other destination where they will literally in this way in a high percentage of their capital. I believe that in these new incentive measures, structural incentive measures should take care of family business and we should take care of new generations, not just subsidies. Here, last week, a government regulation was adopted on subsidisation by post. Of course, I have to point out that this subsidy threshold and these conditions have to increase when it comes to employee earnings, not that these investors pay only 20% more than minimum earnings, but that the threshold increases. I must point out as a Social Democrats and appeal to the Minister and the Competent Ministry that all laws that are from the social economic area, in accordance with the Social Economic Council Act, must give an opinion to that same Social Economic Council, so that, of course, we can develop our economy in accordance with the policy and EU and the policy of the European Social Committee and in line with the policy of European integration of our country. As a member of the same Social Economic Council, please bear in mind that you are coming with the proposals of the law concerning finance, economy and social policy, especially employment, with the opinion and representatives of employees, representatives of employers, of course, as well as you as a representative of the state. As far as the Social Security Contribution Act is concerned, I'll just say the following. We will support this law, however, I am not sure that until the PIO Fund is corporateized, I am not sure that this money, as it was not in previous years, will be spent properly in that institution, which, according to the DRI report, with such deficits and through the incentives it had from the budget, gave loans to purchase flats employed at an interest rate of 1%. Someone in the afternoon session said we had a PIO fund with us. Unfortunately, it's not even a flow water heater, but it deals with things that aren't even legally allowed. I ask you that when it comes to management, corporateization, parallel to this proposal, do something about it, so that the PIO fund can be as efficient and better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1991	Thank you very much. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1992	I'm going to answer a few things very briefly about the socio-economic council. These and other measures proposed by the economic policies were actually debated at the two-part session of the Economic Council, and the last one was now Saturday morning. As for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we will have opportunities to talk about it during this session, either through these subsidized loans, it will not be because it is a government regulation, but we also have Apex III, or Apex V, which will be directed at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1993	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Let the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1994	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, we here today have proposals of two laws, which essentially, by our deep conviction, really bring no effect that has been announced for so long. That's why we can't support them. First, I will look back on a constant uncertainty and inconsistency that is often called upon by Members of the ruling majority, which you can help, Minister. Namely, on your ministry's website, we've had a growth in unemployment since 2012 and 29.9% at the moment, so we have 30,000 newly unemployed in Serbia. It's on your site and I can show you that, if you don't believe me, Minister. I'd like to avoid this number-throwing thing in the future that doesn't make any sense and doesn't make any better. These proposed laws, in our opinion, increase the contribution rate for the PIO Fund by 2% and reduce the contribution for health care by 2% and modify existing incentive measures for new employment. An identical increase in PIO rates and a reduction in social security does not reduce the burden on employers, but significantly reduces the overall resources for public health protection by 250m euros, approximately. Otherwise, you said one interesting thing earlier in your replica with your colleague Zivkovic. If I understand you correctly, you said that the quality of health care is not in line with the money. I think it's a big mistake and you sure as hell didn't mean it. Unfortunately, it's about the money. If you reduce the isolation by 260m euros, how do you personally explain that this ruined health system will not be in an even worse situation? I'm very interested in hearing your explanation, very specific if possible. In doing so, higher original incomes from the PIO Fund reduces the amount allocated from the budget for pensions, creating an illusion, artificially created, of a smaller budget deficit. You did this to create an illusion of a reduced budget deficit. You are reducing the quality of healthcare, which is normally very low, by 260m euros, and we are coming really into a very interesting situation of re-balancing between what you are constantly announcing and what you are giving us through legal proposals. Otherwise, these reliefs for new employment are less than those applied by the previous government, and even more are not targeted by vulnerable groups, as many colleagues have said, such as young people up to 30 years and over 45 years of life, which we believe is very bad, and so will we and some other parliamentary groups try to change the amendments. Legal protection has also been abolished from reducing the number of employers who use tax reliefs for new employees, so the employer can employ 10 workers for whom only 30% of the taxes and contributions will be paid, while firing 15 existing employees, for which he pays 100% of the taxes and contributions. That's possible. And you explain how it's not possible? Mere will have no effect because there can be no increase in the number of employees when the state is doing nothing to increase economic activity, which we were talking about, so if companies don't have jobs, they have no reason to hire new people. It's a malfunction in your concept. So you're trying to apply semi-measures, often demagogue character, in a situation that is suited to a developed economic system, where development exists and where economy normally moves. In Serbian terms, it leads us, unfortunately, in a very, very bad direction. For this reason, we insist that you ministers set a numerically defined goal here, so that you tell us by 31 December 2014 about how many new employees in Serbia will be due to this law and these measures. It would be very useful for you, as one of the ministers who heads an extremely important portfolio, to show responsibility and to realize that you have a great and political responsibility to tell us here about how many people will be employed thanks to this law that you are now passing in the Assembly. That would be, I think, very useful. These measures, like many others that you have announced so much from the judiciary, are further partial, insufficient, the demagogue often cosmetic and the damage itself said just before you said – this is only one part that will help a little, and it will not be able to solve the problem realistically. That's what you said. And you've announced these laws as a solution to unemployment, and unfortunately nothing, you know that. So there are 30,000 more unemployed at this point. Employers will be in an unequal position, as the organisation called "Transparent Serbia" said. The fiscal council has explicitly decided negatively on these measures. So we don't really see what you're announcing, we don't see in this bill. We have told you before, Minister, that what you said will give implementation of new economic measures in 2014 – savings are expected from 600 to 800m euros. That's what you said in this assembly and in the public, and we don't understand what these measures are and what they are savings are when our expenditures in the first four months of this year are 250m euros higher than last year. So, the very simple, precise question -- how did you say it would be from 600 to 800 savings, and we have 250 million expenditures more? So that's not clear to us. The budget gap is 92 billion dinars, otherwise more than 50% of the planned deficit for this year. I think it's already done. In four months, the continuity of the same government, de facto. What is your personal responsibility for the quality of this budget and the rebalancing we have worked for which we have told you and then that it is not real, that it is not good. What is your personal responsibility for this? Among other things, I have to ask you -- why did you raise your hand to the government to cut expenses for emergency situations 70% when we begged you not to, during the rebalancing? You sat here and we prayed for it from you and laughed for you and the MPs of the majority. So, that's what I'd like you to tell me. Why is the lower VAT charge 14% in April compared to the previous year, and you increased VAT ministers for basic life supplies? Why is the deficit bigger than last year? Why hasn't the Minister of Economy been consulted again, has he not been involved in any of these laws and proposals and the measures that you are announcing? You're making another Radulovic again. There are probably strong character differences between the two of them, but we're really afraid this thing doesn't work out at all. In the end, I'll remind you something that I know, don't take this personally, because I know that you've talked about it in public, and there's this terrible information that I believe is untrue, that you're receiving, say, 5 salaries. I don't think that's true, but I also know that you said that you would systemically solve it, because you have to accept it by function, and since we are in the year of savings, it's not the right thing to continue such a practice from the National Bank to the Ministry of Finance. Minister, I think it would be convenient for you to take advantage of this opportunity to tell us in which way the subsidies you plan to give to businessmen, banks, how it will work in practice, how you think to make apartments at such cheap prices, to give us some things that are not closely related to this law, but you have the opportunity to talk about it if we don't have, and to inform this public that you know what she expects of you - whether you want to increase at all the basic price of working in Serbia, which is what we are always asking you to do, whether you want to reduce interest by the law on banks in Serbia, which we also suggest, how you personally behave and what your personal attitude is, but I think this is bad and I think that this is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1995	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1996	Thank you very much. You've misquoted me a few times, so that's all I'm going to do, not knowing it was weekly, correct. As for health care, of course it depends on money, among other things, and of course I didn't say it wasn't on money. What I'm saying is that these amendments to the law will not deny money to the Health Insurance Fund. Why do I say that? Because budget rebalancing will introduce a transfer to the Health Insurance Fund that will replace part of the funds they would otherwise receive by the end of this year with these old tax rates, by replacing it to that amount that would be spent, not the amount that would remain in the pocket trapped there, which was the case in the previous years. As for the number of new employees, the reason why I'd like you to make a proposal that we can only talk about this law in isolation. I said, and that's where you got me out of context again, this is one of the measures of economic policy. Moreover, I said, one of the measures of these stabilizations, to call it the economic policy that is supposed to be a certain deadline, i.e.. two years in this case, and we will take many other measures, such as excessive changes to the labour law, the Labour Act, which will greatly accelerate people's ability to work, i.e. to have a job. As far as unemployment is concerned, there are two methodologies. I'm sure you know that well. One of these methodologies is the methodology done by the survey. The second one goes off the National Employment Service records. These two traditionally differ for the simple reason that what is recorded at the National Employment Service, which is our methodology, but not the methodology that is uniformly applied to the EU. They do not affect those who, for example, work in a black or gray zone or even part of those who are temporarily or occasionally engaged in agricultural production. One of the objectives of this law combined with taking the front inspection will be to reduce those who work on black. We've talked before, but I think I've already explained about the deficit in the first four months. I'm not sure what rebalancing you're talking about, because I haven't worked a single budget rebalance or defended in the Assembly, only the 2014 budget, but good. As for economic measures and insinuations that the Ministry of Economy was not involved, or that the economy minister was not involved in their adoption, I will simply say that this is not true and that we have talked about this, but also all other measures with Minister Vujovic and Minister Udovici. At all, we discussed it at the government. Moreover, we also discussed on the Social-Economic Council, which I don't think was a practice before, at least not in that scope and that way. After all, on your question, I don't know where it came from, I said at the very beginning of the previous term, in September of the month, that by the automaticism of four or five salaries I should receive, I gave up everyone. I receive only the ministerial salary of about 700 euros, about 80,000 dinars a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1997	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1998	See, that's a little vague now, Minister. You've really answered some questions, and I'm grateful for that. A lot of those I asked you before that you didn't. All right, I'm sorry, you weren't defending the rebalancing, you were defending the budget. I don't think that really upsets you in this situation. You know that very well. So you're the father of a budget that has a hole this big and that Serbian citizens expect to see that hole in the financial sense we're going to blow. That's what we asked you and then we warned you and then. You relied on money from abroad. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we pass a law that is only a small part of what you promised, not you personally, but the Prime Minister. I don't see how we're gonna get any better, because we've had this budget deficit chronically for years. Your predecessors didn't do anything in that sense either, and we told everyone that something in that sense changed, and they didn't come to their senses, they laughed, they laughed, they insulted, they made noise on the other side, and now, when they looked at it, nothing. I asked you, why did you raise your hand? Why did you raise your hand for a budget where there's 70% less for emergency situations, here, I'm asking you as a man? And not just you, but your colleagues in the government and MPs from the majority. We have stenograms where it says nice not to ask you to do it and you do it, and then when we ask, we're an anti-state element. That really offends intelligence. That's not correct. So, the rebalancing will introduce a transfer fund, and how much money will be there, what needs, what about tenders because of the Public Procurement Act and how many people there really need, and is that the way to a solution to this country's budget system? It's just that these things aren't budget items and you know it very well. How are you going to solve this on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u1999	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2000	The budget rebalance, which we will talk about no more than a month to a month and a half from now in parliament, will provide for as much money as the fund lacks to implement everything that involves primary health care and everything else, including public procurement and all other things. As for the budget as such, I think we have been going through all categories and revenues and budget expenditures in detail and it is very clear that in all fields, and this is the consequence of specific decisions made between 2007 and 2009. Our budget structure is such that we spend far more on so-called. current expenditure, excluding capital investments and goods and services, rather than that should be the case. We'll also talk about it when it's time. As for yours, I read it as an implicit innuendo, that the situation would be dramatically different if in this budget the amount of money for emergency situations was bigger, and in the context of this accident that hit us, from what I know about the floods and the way they happened and where they happened, considering where the dikes exist, in what extent and how I personally don't believe it, and besides, we'll be able to talk about it. I ask you, and everyone else, that the next time we talk about budget rebalancing, when we talk about the next budget, we talk not just about where it's missing, but about where we can replace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2001	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2002	Mr. Chairman, I found the right to the replica in the words "these" from the ruling majority, which I think you should have intervened, because it is the demeaning of colleagues who, however, are from the ruling or unruly part of parliament, are certainly all just not these, but it is more a matter of domestic education and culture of individuals that neither you as chairman nor you can teach them if they have not learned so far. On the other hand, as regards the allocation of emergency funds, it is bad to politicise when the trouble is still on the threshold, when the trouble is not removed. On the other hand, in the days behind us, the initiative, which was suddenly silenced, was to build a polling board of the Serbian Parliament to examine the spending of funds collected now for floods that hit most of Serbia's territory. At the moment when I said that we were in favour of this and for this survey board with an extended fact, but to examine both the King's earthquake and the floods in Jasa Tomic and all the basic disasters that hit us in the last 15 years, twenty years, where the funds were being spent, how the funds were being spent, how the funds that have been allocated for years were allocated to prevent elementary disasters and whether they ended up where they were supposed to end, suddenly the proposer of such a polling committee retreated, suddenly – don't talk about it, don't talk about what happened and those irregularities that were in the past. For SNS there are no these and those, as there are no topics that are taboo topics and we don't want to talk about. We want to talk about all the troubles our citizens have experienced both in the past and in the future, but also in what's been happening right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2003	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2004	It's just a matter of precision. No initiative has been silenced, and in particular it will not be silenced, nor will anyone be afraid of what is required to investigate all the circumstances, all the bad actions done in the past, anywhere. It's a legal obligation, after all. The Committee of Auditors is being prepared for concrete matters, in this case a disaster that has hit Serbia both in the words of the Prime Minister and the president of your party, there have been gaps and must be established. Then what's the problem? Do you think we're afraid to determine what happened before that? On the contrary, but we will ask to determine who is responsible for the bombing, so we will ask to determine who is responsible for the failure of the Serbian economy, so that we can determine who wore the badges and T-shirts in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2005	Mr Stefanovic, I understand that MPs during the replica have broad discussions. I don't mind you questioning everyone's responsibility, but in the first place, a man is questioning his own responsibility, so his friends, then he's looking for others. Please stay that way, when it comes to replicas, not to spread the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2006	That's right. I believe, Mr. Chairman, that we are all friends here and the citizens of Serbia have chosen us, but I find it entirely inappropriate for the previous speaker to say - the initiative has been silenced. First, the initiative can't shut up. She may appear or disappear, but to silence can music or lambs, but I think he's wrong in this sense. It's not that she's quiet, it's not that she's stopped, it's not that she's gone, but it's normal that since we applied for a session with a special subject, we've submitted a similar initiative, and there's no problem forming a survey board. I guess you didn't think we'd settle for Thursday and the government issue, that it would be okay to determine who did what during the flood. This is not in anyone's interest in this assembly, not in the majority, not in the minority, but in determining who's guilty of what. Maybe I'll listen a little bit more carefully to the Prime Minister than you do, see who let it slip, who let the people not evacuate, who let it in the tabloids write nonsense...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2007	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2008	I'm done. I took the replica just to be precise, so that someone here wouldn't get the impression, don't God give it to me, that against the great advanced majority stand some cowards, not by any chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2009	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2010	The words of the predecessor are a confirmation of everything I said earlier. Let's talk about everything, just not about responsibility for all the troubles that have taken place, the basic troubles and the disasters that have hit our country and our citizens, just not to talk about the King and the earthquake and everything that followed, just not to talk about other things, not about how the funds have been spent for years, not just for the recovery, but for the prevention of elementary disasters. We'll talk about badges and T-shirts and all kinds of other things so irrelevant to our society and our citizens' standards. It is a confirmation that this initiative was silenced at the moment when it could turn around and turn to other people. On the other hand, many of those who, unfortunately, came from warm rooms, using social networks, announced such a shooting of raves across Serbia, as a colleague earlier on, I believe, did, clumsyly, not because of the desire to spread panic and fear. Nasip didn't crack anywhere in Serbia. I'm grateful to both the soldiers and the cops and all those people who have been solidarityd in trouble and the accident and helped to level those accidents, to make the level of human lives, but also to make material losses smaller than they could have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2011	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2012	It's human to answer these great words. It's all right that you said, you just went too far in one thing and I don't think you should have, just because of the circumstances in which the country is. To look in the direction of me and say – from warm rooms, on social networks announced disaster, someone. It's not right. Here sits Mr. Jovicic, ask him where I've been, if you ask me personally. It's not good. Look where we came in because of your rhetoric, your re-examination. If it didn't break a single rash, go to the Obrenovac and say it didn't crack, say it in the Whisper, what were you chief of staff less than one day, what? Why couldn't you have done it nicely? As far as I know, you have something to do with water. Did the Chief of Staff have to leave the entire army to deal with one city? It could have been you. Why didn't you? Of course we are all grateful to both the police and the military and other people who have come out in huge numbers to help the citizens of Serbia, but this is neither the time nor the place, it will never be for what you have now tried to insinuate, which is below each level. That's what you want to do from Serbia, when someone asks – why people aren't evacuated, you're from warm rooms something, because the Serbia you believe in is Serbia that only thinks and talks the way you want and use this accident for it. We won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2013	Mr. Granny, I'll allow you a replica and we'll be done. No more replicas, please. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: What? ) As far as I know, you've been a speaker and you've chosen a replica and it's your turn to end up on the opposite side of the line and we're done with it, because this is how we can do it by tomorrow. Here you go, and we're done with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2014	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, that unfortunate night I went to Shabac as a civilian, as someone who responded to the invitation of Prime Minister Vukic, and instead of 1,000, 1500 people in Sapac that night appeared between 10,000 and 12,000 people. On call, human, responsible. I haven't been in a day, I haven't been in a few hours, nor wanted to be head of the CID in a city that I don't know, nor do I do a job that I don't know, but I'm responsible for a few hours, until there are some responsible people from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense who have accepted because of the unpreparedness of the local self-government that didn't have a single sack of sand, because of the inadequacy of local self-government that didn't care about its citizens, because of these people, the responsible people who were in that headquarters together, filling their sacks, because of the unpreparedness of local self-government who didn't have 30 shovels at that moment, one buffer in the Quarter. I'll never take the job that professionals have to do. I am grateful to Mr. Dikovic for his wonderful work, and because six or seven days with these people did not go home, he did not sleep. What's wrong with that? What's wrong with politics getting out of sports? Ask your president why he didn't come out of the sport. Because politics must go out and give way to professionals and that politics, or such things, is not a place where anyone who deals with politics will advertise, but those people who have powers and opportunities to save both lives and material goods. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Granny. ) On the other hand, just once again, what misery in Serbia broke without being in Bosnia, or in Croatia? What misery in Serbia has broken, and now people in Serbia are afraid?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2015	On what basis, Mr. Sutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2016	I'm an authorised representative of the DS, Mr. Babic said to ask our party president and I want to say a few things here, I have a lot of right to do that. I know it's hard for you when I take your word for it, but, how can I tell you, it's hard for me to listen to you. Mr. Babiću, you just said a few things, if these are facts, these are the basic reasons why we think we need to put together a survey committee and find out how you arrived before the MPs and the Serbian Army? You told us that you had arrived, settled there, I guess you were the strongest in that moment, and then you were the commander of the defense. How did this happen and why? How did it happen that the commander of all Serbia's armies, who is to defend both Palanka and Svilianac and Paracino and Krupanj, defends one rash? How did this degradation of the Serbian Army happen, about which days on these blogs they write all sorts of things? We fully agree on the victims and on the use of the Army and on the emergency sector. How did that happen, we're interested? We're interested, since these are the people who get paid for the job, how is it possible that you get there before they do, and you said you did it? The question of sports and politics with this agenda doesn't have anything to do with it. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And this has? This, so you started it. When asked why the budget reduced the allocation for the 75 per cent emergency sector, you started the story of Šapec and I don't know what other stories and defences of the country, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2017	Please, Mr. Babico, I know you have needs, but I'm not going to let one humanitarian action, one effort of all citizens here now be questioned and that's what a debate is about who contributed more, who is less. This is where the citizens won, and I'm asking you to get it over with. So, please, it's really not the topic of the debate, and we won't do it anymore. We're continuing on the agenda. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go. Mr. Marinkovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2018	As an authorised representative, I would like to respond to Mr. Sutanovec's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2019	You have no right. He didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2020	I have the right to a replica, as someone who participated in the event.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2021	You have no right to a replica. Mr. Marinkovic, you know very well that it is the right of the chairman to decide whether to give someone the right to a replica or not. So I don't think you have the right to a replica. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2022	Chairman, with all due respect, I think you've mixed up. I don't know if Mr. Babic came forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You colleagues have a priority, if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Chairman, will you allow the first violation of the Rules of Procedure, since I think my colleague has the advantage?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2023	Mr. Milicevic, please, I gave you my word. Mr. Babiæ, you will receive the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, since I have already given my word to Mr. Milicevic and I do not want to take it away from him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2024	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will begin by repeating what is the mandated representative of the SPS Parliament Club in today's afternoon debate said that the SPS Parliamentary Club will support these two legislative proposals in the voting day. By supporting these proposals, we actually want to support the goal that is to be achieved through the adoption of these legislative proposals, i.e. to support what these legislative proposals should provide, which is to dispel economic operators, on the one hand, and to increase employment, or to increase employment, on the other hand. Both legislative proposals go towards reducing business costs and towards encouraging employment and introducing employment into one legal and legitimate stream. Teached by the experience of the previous period, here in the Republic Parliament, I must say that it is very difficult to speak affirmatively about taxes. Many analysts and thinkers have tried to explain the existence of taxes, but taxes are still being defined today and perceived as something that is unpopular. I think there is one unique definition and qualification, when it comes to citizens and taxes, citizens consider taxes as a cost, as money that has been wastefully thrown down the river, which, of course, is not the case. This is because citizens have never been able to feel in a direct way what they are benefiting from the taxes themselves. I'd say these two legislative proposals that we're talking about today, that's exactly what needs to be made possible. On the other hand, it should be said that the state cannot function without tax. It is a great hypersensitivity of the citizens of Serbia when it comes to the existence of a gray economy in our country. The negative effects of the grey economy are unfortunately visible in Serbia through tax evasion and market distortions, unfair competition. We advocate that once a clear, precise, efficient fiscal policy should work on the recovery, mitigation and removal of all visions and all forms of the grey economy, and above all when it comes to working on an illegal market. Those who work on black have absolutely no rights, neither health nor social. They are very often exposed to inhumane operating conditions, and very often, in continuity, they have the pressure of potential job loss. These two legislative proposals, our opinion, are exactly one fiscal incentive to invest, i.e. investment in employment, new jobs and the aim of these legislative proposals, is to in some ways suppress, reduce the grey economy in the field of employment, introduce legal and legitimate flows, and that is what the SPS Parliament Club will always support. So, we here, and that's what the minister said in the opening statement, we're talking about new employment. We are talking about new jobs without restrictions on age, without restrictions on work experience, and we think it is very good, because it cannot be defined that there is some kind of vision and form of discrimination in this regard. It is quite clear that the state is someone who creates an ambience and creates an atmosphere where business develops and takes place. We want to commend these two legislative proposals, because what we think is positive and what can be seen from the content of these legislative proposals is the fact that the private sector is being treated, I would say, in one real and adequate way and that the private sector is one way to become part of the economic measures package of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is what I think Mr Babic said in the opening statement, which is the essence and exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, public sector reform and strengthening the private sector. We will have to save a lot of money in the next time period when it comes to the public sector and invest more in the private sector, in employment, in production and in new jobs. What we think as a parliamentary club is that in some way it should be a priority in the next period of time is that the government should consider further incentives, further structural reforms for the incentive and development of the private sector. It is very important to encourage the private sector, because it is in one way important for the economy that creates jobs, in another way it is important for the country that lives on taxis and corporate tax. It is impossible to get out of the economic crisis without creating new jobs and, above all, in the private sector, in the manufacturing sector. Every job today, a new job in the manufacturing sector in Serbia, is a success in the situation where the burning issue in the Republic is today a question of unemployment. We will have to change the incentive environment in Serbia and that is a priority. Today we are talking about a set of legal proposals concerning the private sector. In this way, the private sector becomes part of the economic measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think tomorrow we are talking about a very favourable financial loan from the UAE, a billion euros, and it will allow us to overcome an extremely difficult period, but what we must do, first of all here in the Republic Parliament next month, is to adopt a set of system laws and thus create a basis and precondition for the further reform process. Without the reform process, the continuation of the reform process, through the adoption of a set of system laws, we will not be able to feel those positive effects, which is actually the ultimate goal. Of course, as I said, we will have to enter into reform and public enterprises and state administration. Before a certain period of time, I had the opportunity to look at certain data. I don't know how accurate they are, you'll deny me if I'm wrong, but I think they're devastating if they're correct. I have come across information that about 781,000 people are currently working for the state of Serbia, out of 1,700,000 employees. If that's true, it's a little less than 50%. If you compare this data to a European 20% average, when it comes to the public sector and if you compare it to the average in the world's most efficient economies, say in Germany, it is 15%, then these data are truly devastating. On the other hand, we have one piece of information that says that the salary fund is about 14 times the profits made in the sector. In the private sector, the amount of wages per dinar of profits is much lower and is paid to about 1.7 dinars of wages per dinar. What I'm trying to say is that in a shorter period of time, we're going to have to compare the total number of employees to the opportunities of the economy. This economy won't be able to wear on its shoulders much longer. Of course, it can't be overnight, and in this respect, we need to define these goals together, make a medium-term plan, and start to realize these goals. What I want to say in a few more terms concerns the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security. There is no concrete change that we are talking about today, but I think it is an important issue, I think it is such an important and important issue that it deserves the attention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it deserves immediately, as soon as possible, at the beginning of the term of office. Namely, when it comes to the whole, this legislative proposal is of paramount importance and importance, but this law in general does not make sense unless it has a financial effect. This is about determining contributions to compulsory social security and charging enables the functioning of three systems and pension insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance. If there's no charge, then none of these three systems can work. My question is the collection, control and payment instruments and contributions. The question is simple – how can someone and must pay taxes and contributions, and yet someone doesn't have to. I think this is an important issue and that it deserves the attention of the government of the Republic of Serbia, right at the beginning of the term of office. I'll come back, and that's what I want to end up with, on the legal proposals we're talking about today. They will have the support of the SPS parliamentary club, because we think they are interest and workers, but they are interest and employers, they are interest and state. The workers will receive a contract of work in all guaranteed rights that go with it. The State, i.e. the employer, will be disbursed, i.e. it will have lower operating costs, and the state through the products themselves, taxes, will already have budget revenues. Once again, in Voting Day, the SPS Parliament Club will support these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2025	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2026	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Krstic, today, as we know, we are here discussing two draft laws, one on the income tax of citizens, and the other on contributions to compulsory social security. My opinion, Mr. Krstic, is that both bill proposals are very bad, but I will try to explain why I think these proposals are bad and to point out which proposals we think these laws can be corrected, since I heard that you insist that concrete solutions should come from the opposition. First thing, Article 1. The draft law on contributions to compulsory social insurance provides for the redistribution of funds from the Health Insurance Fund to the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund. The key word, Mr. Cross, is redistribution here. I hope redistribution isn't the key word of this government's economic policy. If that were the case, and I suspect that might happen based on such proposals, then I think the government is on a bad path. By the end of this year, you wrote there, too, that 18 billion dinars are projected less for health insurance. At an annual level, that should mean 30 billion dinars. The government argues that the adoption of this proposal increases the sustainability of the mandatory pension and disability insurance system, but our question, when we consider this calculation, of these figures, is – what about the sustainability of health insurance? This explanation that there's a surplus I think is a terrible blow to the reality of our health insurance system, Mr. Krstic. You're reducing the funds of the Health Insurance Fund, and there's no state in our region that sets out less resources for health care. How can we talk about the surplus then, Mr. Cross? Or the Minister of Health, a colleague of yours from the government, says this morning that the adoption of this bill will not put up with health care. I have to ask you, and you, Mr. Krstic, may be able to ask your colleague, Minister Loncar, why, if the health care won't suffer, and we think it's already suffering, why do we have to pay for the treatment of children with SMS? That people have to wait for certain operations for over a year and a half. How is it, Mr. Krstic, that you claim that there are surpluses in the Health Insurance Fund, and our health care, health profession and health care are now at the lowest possible level. Then how can we use the term as surpluses in the health insurance system? Mr. Cross, I have a few more questions for you. Is it essential that the surplus from otherwise poor health to a well without a bottom is the peak of the professional reach of this government? I think today's debate was supposed to be a good cause, Mr. Krstic, one chance to make it clear that the Pension Disabilities Insurance Fund is in an irreparable loss. The solution to this situation, Mr. Minister, must not be redistribution. I think the right answer to the situation in which this reform fund is located, as you have announced, and these bill proposals, by my court, when I see that redistribution is a key term, are how I see the anti-reform proposals of the law. That's why I don't think they should be accepted. We believe that Article 1 of this proposal should be deleted and plus, I think today was a good opportunity to discuss this reform of pension disability insurance, what could it mean, what consequences would it be if we moved on to a private pension system, for example, that current employees are saving for their future through private pension accounts. It would point to a reform course. This is how I think it's an anti-reform position. Second, both draft laws cite proposals for incentive measures for employers who employ a certain number of workers. We believe, Mr. Krstic, that these incentives are insufficient, instead of 65% for new one to nine employees, we propose 85%, instead of 70 for ten to 99, we suggest 90%, and which employer employs over 100 workers to keep them up to 95%. (President: Time.) ) I conclude, Mr. Chairman, with only one note, I suggest that the minister consider our proposals. We have submitted five amendments to these draft laws and in the day when the debate is under amendments, we will discuss it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2027	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2028	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, at first I would like to give my support to these amendments to the laws and amendments to the law on income tax. It seems to me that the state has finally embarked on a process that will lead to us encouraging our private sector, since the state has acted as a stepmother in the previous decades towards the private sector and on the public sector as a mother. Since we have always had some reliefs on how to preserve businesses, of course it is our obligation, but in most cases those who charge today have and destroyed these public enterprises, and there are over 700 in the Republic of Serbia. What we also need to see as a fact in the past, which is that, especially in the period 2009 to 2011, in the course of the world's biggest economic crisis, we have had parafiscal accusations that the government has imposed at 21% of the increase in burdens towards small and medium-sized economy. Also, the relationship of the Republic where the Republic has shifted 61% of the burden to local self-government, making it difficult for the private sector to work, and in this way many people are out of work for the two years. This law is perfectly clear. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants on the one hand to protect the rights of workers, to have the worker in the system, in the law, to have the right to health, pension insurance and what is most important to have the status of workers, and that means that you have the opportunity to be in charge of a residential loan or for a car or any need you want to achieve yourself. This law clearly states, and employers need to know and citizens, that if no one today wanted to point out or talk about it, but the debate went very often in the other direction, if you want to hire from one to nine workers, young workers, the state pays you 65% of the tax paid, if you want 10 to 99 workers to work, the state pays you back 70% of the tax paid. Over 100 workers if you hire – 75%. Why the difolt always requires critical thinking, and they have left over 200,000 people out of work for over six years. What is important to us is certainly the position of workers and we hope that this will primarily focus on new entrepreneurs, young entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is really important for us to finally establish such a natural business environment that will allow the state to give something, not only to be taken as it was in the past. I'll be free enough to run a parallel analysis of the countries in the region, when we talk about their tax breaks. In fact, Croatia has made some shifts, but insufficient shifts, and certain large-capital representatives have taken out their capital, i.e. their companies on the territory of Slovenia, thus depriving themselves of a certain profit. What we can see in Montenegro, which is that Montenegro has had some relief when we talk about profit tax. Every investor who wanted to invest in underdeveloped parts of Montenegro had an eight-year "free" zone in which he did not have to pay a profit tax. However, if you look at it a little bit better, it was limited to certain activities, so someone who was involved in transport, agriculture, fishing, steel, did not have the opportunity to make use of it. We are here without the right to discriminate on anyone's position to return a certain amount of that tax for every employee of the state, and we believe that this is unlike what the representatives of the former authorities and the government have not even tried to do, this step further. What's important is today you say it won't solve all the problems. Of course, it will not be possible for 12 years to destroy the Serbian economy to solve something in a year or two, but what citizens recognize is certainly an initiative given by SNS, an initiative by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. We've heard here from certain representatives or representatives of the main opposition party, no matter how much she is, that this is about Mercating. I don't understand, given that the president of the party is in collegiate with what he said, is it possible that he is today calling for measures that are state-of-the-art to take care of public enterprises? In a situation where he could decide on the fate of these companies, the only thing that grew was the private business of him and his associates, or party parliamentarians. That's really rude. Lessons are being shared today, and he successfully sold his company for several hundred million euros... (Chairman: Mr. Jovicic... I'm done. I'm sorry. And the representatives of his party, the directors destroyed public enterprises, so of course no one wants to privatise them anymore. When we speak, I must, because it was in the domain of the opposition's representative, that Belgrade has public enterprises that are stable, that is not true. Belgrade is over-indebted to a billion-euro metropolis, and businesses are being destroyed by the withdrawal of money for the very private companies involved in marketing, watch miracles. So I ask you as representatives of the opposition to give constructive solutions, solutions that will help us all fight together for workers' rights on the one hand, to fight for entrepreneurs to finally get a chance to work fairly in this country, not to have people in the black zone. That's why we're in a situation where 700,000 people work in a black or gray zone, whatever we call it. What is most important is that we allow the business environment to be improved and, ultimately, the Republic of Serbia also puts certain money into its budget. I don't see what's controversial if 10,000 newly employed Serbia is going to put 500 million dinars into its budget. I therefore call on you as MPs to support this amendment and the addition of the law, because we believe that it is finally time, in which the state of Serbia must have the same treatment for the private sector, rather than always to be sympathetic, because of losers and those who have ruined the public sector, only to the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2029	Mr. Jovicic, I tried to interrupt you, but I let you through. I still need to tell you something. I don't mind your discussion, but I don't think it's appropriate to give recommendations and advice to the opposition in which she will take her views on the law. In that sense, I ask you to release the opposition, because just as you have the right to state your position, so they have their right. I ask you in that sense to behave like this, because that's how we only cause unnecessary replicas. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica! That's why Mr. Sutanovac's answering too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2030	Thank you. I report first of all because a respected young colleague doesn't really know what happened in the last 12 years in Serbia and often says that the economy has devastated in those 12 years, that before that it was phenomenal, and now it's probably at that level like when it was phenomenal. Please, we know that in those 12 years, GDP has increased 300%, three times. Exports from Serbia rose four times. The average salary has increased 10 times in those 12 years, and bad authorities say, and the same salary is now falling, according to the public funding bulletin, which I will read later, is lower already in February compared to January. Also, what's interesting to know is that in 2000, the Republika Srpska foreign reserves were somewhere at 200m euros, and at the beginning of this year they were over 11 billion euros. The same was true in 2012 in January of the month. So 55 times the foreign exchange reserve balance has been increased compared to 2000 in those 12 years. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, foreign reserves have begun to fall. In this year alone, we have a 300m-euro drop in foreign reserves. Meanwhile, we have a decline in employees from 2012 until today, also after the public finances newsletter. In the meantime, according to that same bulletin, on page 5, you have a clear statement of why you have a decline in average earnings this year compared to last year. In the last two years, only a billion euros of foreign investment, Mr. Minister, and this year for four months, only 92 million, and in 2011, which you say is bad in those 12, was a billion and 800m euros. That's what Serbia is on today... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... After that 12 so-called. Bad years, and now we're at an even worse age and we're after the good '90s, which you're proud of today after a decade and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2031	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Granny? Injury of the Rules of Procedure can. [[Zoran Babić, from the place: Could be the replica and injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2032	One thing, Mr. Chairman, is not clear to me... (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Which member? ) Article 107. - Respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, and when something is said that is untrue, regardless of immunity, the dignity of the National Assembly is threatened. One thing, Mr. Chairman, is not clear to me, and that's how everything from 2000 to 2012 grew great, made excellent progress, was phenomenal in Serbia, honey and milk flowed, and those who contributed to all this growth came to 6% of the popularity of citizens' trust? (Chairman: Mr. Granny, please don't. Mr. Chairman, another sentence. How is it possible that all those who contributed, that is, to the SNS that contributed, here, my God, to the devasting of the last two years, to receive half the support of Serbian citizens in the March elections? Who here tells the truth and who here humiliates the dignity of the congregation by bringing up certain things that absolutely have nothing to do with the truth? In fact, now I understand why they came to the edge of the census.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2033	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Please, don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you know well that a breach of the Rules of Procedure can only challenge the chairman and you're obliged to explain what I've done. I didn't realize what I was doing in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think I hurt myself. I can't be here to determine the facts or who's telling the truth or not. That's not my problem. I ask you to respect, first of all, the chairman and ultimately, the question of the dignity of the Assembly. Thank you very much. (Zoran Babic, from the post: To vote. () You want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Alexander Jovicic, on what grounds are you answering? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. No, I won't let you. Wait till I'm done. I'll read you that article and I'll ask you to listen well. Therefore, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or function, or if he misreads his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. Please listen further. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party, and the MP belongs to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The final position, most important – on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. I've decided you don't have the right to a replica and I'm asking you to respect that. Thank you very much. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! ) The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2034	Mr. Chairman, you have just injured the member you quoted, Article 104, because it is well said – that is to say, it misreads his exposure. Since the speaker mentioned a young colleague who used to speak, it was your turn to give him a replica. It really seems to me that you have an extremely double archinae during the conduct of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2035	No, I really don't have double arches and I'm trying to be extremely objective. When Mr. Jovicic finished his presentation, I knew that he had caused a replica with his own exposure. He was so nice at first discussing it, but his end... Please, I listened very carefully to the man, if it's my right to assess the value of the discussion, it was great for me, but in the end you caused a replica. That's why I'm not allowing you to re-replicate. Do you understand me? Be so correct. I follow as much as I can. I understand my age and my brain doesn't work like yours, I admit it, but neither do I. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2036	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will try a few sentences in this little time left to explain to my parliamentary group why I and the parliamentary group I belong to will not support this proposal in the voting day. First a few words on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. The current law, which is still in force until your vote, in Art. 21v and 21d talk about reliefs and incentives for the employment of unemployed people who are at the employment bureau, and those who are under 30, whether they are trainees or have already worked somewhere and lost their jobs, as well as older than 45 years. Under the current law, they all had this benefit, i.e. their employers do not pay income tax and do not pay contributions for these workers, in a period of two years for those under 30 and over 45, and a period of three years was for those younger than 30 years and who are trainees. The new bill changes these two members by changing 21v drastically, and 21d is deleted, if I understand well that the employer no longer has the benefit of paying taxes and contributions for newly admitted workers, but if the employment of up to ten workers has a 65% cut-off on paid income taxes and contributions, 70% if he employs between ten and 100 workers and over 70%, respectively, if he employs over 100 workers. All with the idea of fostering economic development, employment and reducing the grey economy. I ask, Mr. Minister, how in the same business environment, in a business environment where we have so many unemployed in Serbia, where we have a state apparatus like we have, where we have inspection services like we have, how do you mean to encourage the employment of people and the animation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs now with these new changes you've given, and they haven't hired the benefits that they don't pay at all, or a contribution of two or three years? What do you mean, you do it? Do you think that businessmen who did not employ benefits given to members of 21v and 21d will now be employed where they have much worse conditions for employment because they have to pay a full tax and a contribution to the worker, and then after handing over documentation that the local branch of the Ministry of Finance performs a refund depending on whether they should be released 65%, 70% or 75% provided they are effective enough and return that money within 15 days, which is impossible in the country of Serbia. I'd like you to answer that question for me. This second proposal, relating to the Law on Contribution to Obligation Social Insurance, I think it is counterproductive and will cause irreparable damage to Serbian health. Serbian health care is financed by contributions from insured persons, and that is order, size at an annual level of about two billion.. (President: Mr. Bradic, please finish your thought, the time of your parliamentary group has been spent. ) Two billion and 100m euros is the budget of the Republic of Serbia which is insufficient to finance all of the health needs of the Republic Fund insurance companies. By reducing from 30 billion dinars on an annual basis, we will further destroy a system that does not work, especially at the level of basic health due to insufficient finances and under-employed workers in primary health due to the lack of money for their salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2037	The word has a first minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2038	Just a quick answer to your two questions. First, there won't be a Republic Health Insurance Fund with 30 billion less than I said. The transfer, by means of a budget rebalancing that will be adopted before the entry into force of this law on modified contributions, will provide for adequate resources. As for the second measure, therefore, it goes parallel to a more rigorous inspection. Also, with the funds that the tax administration now has, which it has not had before, as well as amendments and additions to the law of the CAP and the accompanying laws that we will also discuss, I hope for the next, no longer than a month and a half. What's good about this tax relief compared to the previous one is two things I would single out from your exposure. One is that it is not discriminatory in any way in terms of and category of people, by no other means. A provision relating to persons with disabilities remains in the law, which is apropo something that was mentioned earlier. The other thing is that according to the pre-existing regulations, that is, under current rules until this law is passed, if it is adopted, it is that if the employer fires the worker according to the previous, therefore, under the current law, he must return the tax and the contribution, that is to pay taxes and contributions from which he was otherwise released which, you will agree, is restrictive. Quite restrictive, especially in the conditions in which the economy was located, what with this proposal on amendments and amendments to the law is eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2039	Mr. Bradiche probably wants a replica, though I don't see the basis, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2040	That I want a replica, especially about financing health care, that is. The Republic Health Insurance Fund. The Republic Health Insurance Fund adopted its budget by December, as far as I know in the last 10, 20 years and every honor for the RFZO, because then health institutions can plan their expenses on time. The Republic Fund has projected an income and expenditure side to two billion and 100m euros, as the difference that has now occurred from 18 billion, it's probably because of the centralized supply of drugs and sanity materials, there's probably a difference, but that's one good part of the money. The money was not rebalanced in December or was now used to finance more healthcare workers. Did we make a decision a few days ago that people go to specials without working day, which is inadmissible. They didn't go because someone had a whim to make students go to medical institutions for two years, and then get specializations, but because it's a need for health care. Why didn't we focus that money on softer criteria for the reception of workers, especially in basic health, because you have 90% of the villages in Serbia where the old, sick and poor population lives, and there is no possibility of getting a village doctor in primary health, because there are no 1,200 residents. I think that money with that rebalancing within the Fund could have been used more wisely than it could have been given to a pension to ensure a safe retirement, and then to withdraw money from the budget if it were and when it was. As far as I know, no budget is charged 100%, neither the Republic Health Fund nor the Pension Fund, 100% of the income is not charged. It means that in the end, all the impact will be taken by the RFO's insurance companies again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2041	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2042	So just to be very clear, we're now talking about the way that you're filling that budget that you're just talking about, specifically for the health fund. What I want to avoid is this discussion, and I have with everyone who has a surplus, and there are several local self-governments, and that's exactly what we're going to change public enterprises, etc., although we are talking about profits in public enterprises, not surpluses. It's because of trust or funding. So, according to the current rules, the Fund has more income than it spends. I agree with you that it's perfectly legitimate to talk about how much we want to spend the Fund. The cost of the fund means that the money will not and was not predetermined to as many percent as it was before, it's a variable category. It's important that we understand. The discussion on what we're going to spend consolidated revenues on not the republican budget but all levels of government is a budget discussion. We won't be able to do that in the rebalancing process, but I said that since 2015, or the 2015 budget, it means, later in 2014, I hope that we will be able to discuss it at a consolidated level and defend it, or here, in the Assembly. So we need to talk about it being spent. If we're going to spend more on health care, which I as finance minister, or I'm open to talking about it, we need to figure out where we're going to spend a little less or you're going to have to tell me where we're going to get bigger revenue. That has nothing to do with it. Just what's done here by changing the rate of contributions is that in conditions that we don't have enough money we don't fear money that we can't use them for what we need. No one questioned a 50% deficit of the PIO Fund, no one questioned a regular pension payment. Neither will anyone question that the RFO will have enough money and that this will not affect its business or health care. Whether our health care is set up and should function in this way or in a different way, I am very willing, even more than I think it is necessary to get into that debate, I hope by the end of the year together with the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2043	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2044	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been listening to the debate all day about the proposed amendments and the additions of the two tax laws. Although it certainly won't bring any copernican crafts for our economy, I see them as very positive laws and I think they're rather maliciously interpreted by the opposition, who are experiencing these proposals in some kind of disharmony with what we've been listening to here in the exposé and what is the general plan of the government. I think that they are in harmony, and that we will only get important changes in the economic sphere with the systemic and structural changes that await us in the debate on the Labour Act, the Law on bankruptcy and many other very important laws. At this point I think the greatest quality of change these two laws actually encourage all those who have the ambition to go into private business for the first time in their lives. So for them, this is actually the best measure. However, what I find very important to underline is that in the conversation with the direct users of these new laws, what they are after these changes, and which I have spoken with, and also about entrepreneurs and employers, and also about those who are now unemployed and waiting to be employed, both have observations. They concern certain types of discrimination, which they draw attention to and believe that such solutions can favour one employer or one unemployed in relation to some other groups that are now given a certain chance. So here's what I really mean when I say it, or I convey first of all the experiences of those who are, say, in the association of small and medium-sized enterprises. What are the basic remarks? The remarks are that simply by inability, and that is not realistic because we are really limited in the budget, using these reliefs and for those who are already working, means, applying to those who are already employed, to the same extent that they will be applied, of course, it is impossible to make it easier on those who are now, would actually be the right measure of this law. If that is impossible, they say that it can happen, under certain conditions, that actually employers who have employed workers so far, paid neatly or less neatly to the state of tax, but have certainly tried, who have tried to keep all workers together and to keep jobs, now come in one position to finance the malts of these taxes by those who are only now going to open jobs and in fact in some segments to represent even their competition. There's the biggest problem with this law in my mind. Of course, someone has already won the market and thus has a comparative advantage. But we might not be that way. Especially if it comes, for example, some serious, respectable company, here, I'll give an example, although it may not be correct, "Beneton," deals with the textile industry, and we have our domestic production that is on low branches, perhaps more primitive, but it exists and works, achieves some profits, employs some people, provides some jobs. If you're under this relief now, not giving any relief to current employers, and we can't call it a real relief that they're going to get a relief at every new job, because they're hiring as needed, not for relief, and they say that, so they're not hiring someone who has a firm now because you've given him relief, but because they need a new workforce. So if you bring one powerful side of the textile company here and put it under these conditions as a competition for domestic textile production, you've put the maltenes in a position to shut down. And that is the problem and unfair competition. I think it can be solved through some other laws, that simply or through the Law on the Protection of Competition or some other law, or some help in the future foresee, parallel to this measure, and for these employers who are now hiring. Believe me, I am obliged to say this, as a People's MP, and if I will support this law, as well as all MPs of the Social Democratic Party, without bearing those fears that this is how domicile economy is brought into a subordinate position, and in a final instance this law can even be found before the Constitutional Court on the assessment of constitutionality. The same objection is given to those who are consummated by this law in the sense that they are waiting to be employed under these new rules. This six-month provision you put into law concerns them. They feel that this provision is being discriminated against because why would someone who's been on the Bureau for six months have more rights than someone who's five and a half months, or three months? Being unemployed for three months is the same problem when you don't have a dinar like being unemployed for half a year... (President: Mrs Nestorovic, your parliamentary group's time is up. )......................................................................................................... Let me finish my thought. So that's where we put it, as the Social Democratic Party of the Amendment, where we propose to abolish those six months and give it another sentence, but when there's time for amendments, we'll talk about how to limit every kind of abuse. Please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2045	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2046	I'd like to use the time of my authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2047	You can't. You have the time of the parliamentary group, and you can use the time of the authorised representative when the debate of all the elected Members is over. So you can use that time at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2048	Thank you. At the very beginning, I would like to be allowed to read something on the website of the Ministry of Finance, named Bilten Public Finance, page 6: “The average net earnings in February 2014 amounted to 44,057 dinars, which is a real decrease of 1% compared to the same month of the previous year. At the same time, the average net profit in the public sector has been actually increased by 1%, while the average net profit in the private sector has been actually reduced by 1.9%. “ As much as this wage reduction is concerned in general, the possibility of increasing wages in the public sector in a time when employment is banned, in a time when we say that in Serbia the public sector is so much that Serbia can no longer endure it. In 2012, in Table 15, 1,738,870 workers were employed, and today it is 1,696,579. I repeat, it is the official website of the finance ministry, Bilten Public Finance, which means there are fewer employees for around 40,000 compared to 2012. At the same time you have growth but unemployment, same table, page 17. Unemployment growth from 764.166 to 793,625. These are the results of this government's economic policy. This government is one really serious financial accident, because, with the increase in all taxes, VAT taxes, profit taxes, it happened that this government has the biggest budget hole at the same time, that wages are falling and that it practically does not create an economic environment, or that we have foreign investments that, I suppose, Mr. Minister, are basically these aspirations that you are promoting here today to free these people of certain taxes. I am saying this because I expected that as a minister who is already a minister in two governments, you will come to Serbia's parliament with a new income tax law and bring us a vision, the idea of how Serbian finance develops, and therefore Serbian businesses, because what you have brought here today, this is practically one technical thing that I won't say is bad, it's not bad, it's good, it's waiting for those six, so let's see how many of these unemployed are going to work, or whether it's going to remain the same numerical state, or whether that number is going to change. It is alarming that you rely on foreign investors, and in two years you have practically slightly more than a billion euros in investment. In this year you have 92 million for the first four months. If it's that pace, it'll be 300m euros. We know that between a billion and a half billion dollars is necessary in Serbia to make our country function and to make the economy work, which means that you have now provided six times less. It's something that, I'm afraid, if you don't take into consideration, and the way you've worked so far, you won't be able to do it, and that's going to be a huge failure of this government and thus Serbia's economy, and hence all the citizens of Serbia and those who have supported your policy, thinking that you're bringing some serious reform and those who aren't. What's also extremely worrying is that today you said here that the RFO had achieved a surplus. For a year and a half, we have been trying to explain to you that the new public procurement laws will achieve surplus wherever public procurement is planned, which makes it impossible to realise planned public procurement, because the procedures are such that it is impossible to make purchases in the right way. On the other hand, savings of six hundred million under the law have been announced. The savings were, according to the prime minister here at the exposé, slightly less than or about 100m euros. So six times it's been missed, and the result of that is now something you call a surplus, and actually it's not a surplus. This will tell you anyone who works in medicine, it is in fact an unrealization of the necessary purchases that must be done in order for the hospitals in Serbia to work today. There are hospitals in Serbia that have not had 51% of the total needs in the past year. In short, just one more thing, since you said you were looking for suggestions. I'm going to give you the opportunity to hear something, maybe even write it down if you want, and I think first of all, that this new law should define whether or not the profit goes into citizens' total income. Why is it more worthwhile in Serbia, in terms of taxes, to be rich than poor? You know, don't get into profit right now. Why don't interests go into citizens' total income? What makes citizens tax if they earn and receive a large salary through total income after a year, or after two million, and those who receive high interest do not? Do you think it is possible to make a correlation between the size of the average salary in the company and the profit tax in the company? For what? Because in Serbia, we have companies that pay the minimum wage and an extremely large profit. This money that is less taxed through profit is later returned through the employee envelope and it bypasses the tax and contribution issue. It's something I advise you to look at, and I think if you do, you have a chance to make a result. Third thing, to say last, since we don't have enough time, it's obvious that primary health care, as proposed by the Democratic Party, should be free of charge and made available to all both employees and unemployed. The way you deal with the RFO budget will make it impossible for healthcare and those who work and those who do not work, because the way you think it can be run simply is completely devastating. Today the hospitals are in catastrophic condition, and without the money you take from them, they'll be in even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2049	The People's MP Zoran Babic came forward, only on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2050	Whatever, and the replica and the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2051	Come on, you're hurting the Rules of Procedure. I chose what you offered, which suits me better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2052	I insist on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2053	I don't see any reason for the replica, really. I understand what you're saying, but it's his right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2054	Article 32. If he already has every right, as you just said, every man has the right to say whatever he wants, then don't deny it to some other people who sit in this room, if we're going to talk about whatever we want, because today it was just and exclusively about asking Mr. Krstic a question. Neither is this the topic of the agenda, nor is today the topic of the agenda any question of the government, nor is it an examination of the knowledge of Mr Krstic, which is, in an economic sense, greater than the sum of all DS members, but the laws on which neither one, nor the authorised other, nor all those mixed representatives of the DS spoke of it. If we're going to ask questions, let's ask questions about responsibility. What is the ex post mind that she said – now it needs health insurance to be free of charge from those people who have run this country for 12 years? Why wasn't health insurance for free then? Then why did the resolute minister operate in Germany and not trust the resolution ministry he ran? Let's talk a little bit about responsibility for this kind of unemployment rate. Don't mix grandmothers and frogs, don't talk about employee rates and unemployment rates. Let's talk about responsibility not just political. Here is life, the life of 400,000 people is at stake and those who now have the right to ask a question are responsible. No, they have no right, Mr. Chairman. They only have the opportunity to answer for what they did to employees and what they did to the economy and the economy of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2055	If we had the same opinion and opposition and position, then we would be unique here in every way. That's my answer as far as the debate is concerned. Mr Babiću, I defend the minister against insults, but I do not defend against the questions raised by him because I have convinced myself that the minister is very professionally and quality of the answers. There's no reason to be angry that they're asking him questions. Once again, I must say that it is the minister who should defend this law. If we go from extreme to extreme now, we're not going anywhere. Please bring in both the tone and the spirit of the debate according to the agenda that's here today. The word has Minister Krstic, so I'll give you a replica, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2056	About a few facts, you've bid some pay-related statistics. I'll read it to you from 2008 to 2013, that's the last thing I have. You read 2014 and there could be better and we're working on making it better. Private sector, since I think it is the main reference, in 2008 1.518.140 employees, in 2012 1.257.653 employed. So a reduction of 260,000 employees in the private sector. To this I will add only the fact that in the public sector in that same period we have a reduction of these officially registered in the narrow public sector of 10,000 just to a figure of around 480,000. As far as salary is concerned, in 2008, 380 euros, 2009 330 euros, 2010 324 euros, on average in the private sector in 2011 jumped to 363 euros, in 2012 364 euros, in 2013 387 euros. For that last one, I'm not sure, it says here a November piece of information, maybe it hasn't been on average for a whole year. It's in the euro. I can read it to you in dinars, with what I think fell in 2009, and then it's growing, but we know what happened to the course. In this respect, in the public sector, the salary remained relatively stable, all the time around 420 euros with the number of employees. I'm not saying that wages are high enough or that they shouldn't grow, but I'm saying, it's not worth chasing by numbers and taking what's right for us to watch. We have a systemic problem with the budget, with height, with the size of the public sector, specifically and with the level of wages in the public sector, with the height of the employees, then the height of the salary relative to the private sector. You've seen it's about 15% higher. We have a huge deficit concerning the Pension Insurance Fund, which comes from two things, one of them is employment, and the other is a huge number of pensioners we have in relation to the number of employees, the amount of pension, and the fact that a huge number of people retired prematurely. I'm willing to talk about these things. I think there's a gray economy, it's the third thing to talk about, we talked about it, and it's one of the measures we're talking about today. So, in that sense, we need to address the system problem. This quote, I could have said the same thing, I read this morning on the news – April's salary is higher than March's. Now it's a data that we can both realistically and nominally and in any other way, but it's not... We simply want to talk about the essence of the problem. I think for the first time that's the case, and I'd just like to appeal, it's not a topic. That's why I didn't answer right away. This is not a topic for this discussion of amendments and additions to these two laws, but since you've touched it to read the facts and just return the subject to what we should actually talk about. I agree that it would be good to move on to taxation that will take into account all revenues in the year in a similar way that exists in America, both in Germany and in most countries. In fact, not most, but in a large number of Western countries. I don't want to make any promises, because we have to consult in the wider professional public on this. So the overall measure, which has been served for two years, aims to function within several economic measures and in the context of tax administration reform and the fight against the gray economy. Wider than the tax administration itself, so I mean labour inspection and as such she is a small change. So the alterations and additions are at stake. We have a plan, and I have consulted my colleague from the ministry earlier in the debate, and we stick to this plan to discuss the Law on Income Tax, among other laws, in the second half of this year in a more systematic way. Finally, we've already talked, and I wouldn't go into health care in detail right now, and the way the beverage model moves to budget health care, we have a few suspensions in the system, not only in the IRS, which is said to be out of line with best practice, and of course with these notes that have come about competitiveness and business in the market, which are very reasonablely founded but we have a lot of anomalies, including companies in restructuring. The first of them, as we solve them, will open up a space for discussion, a much more serious discussion about the health system as such, it is a broader topic, whether it makes sense to go over the beverage model, to funding completely from the budget, how much coverage, how much would it increase costs, what services are primary health care, and how we as a state can satisfy it, as well as what would be the role of private entities in the health system. These are all topics I'm very willing to talk about on the financial side. In the end, others should be the leading subjects in this conversation, and I am, at least from the discussion that I had so far, in addition to the Prime Minister's exposé, confident that we will discuss it within very reasonable time limits in the term of office of this government to resolve it systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2057	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2058	Mr. Minister, let me thank you for letting you, unlike the parliamentary majority, ask you. The idea is that we answer. I guess Mr. Babic just had some idea that we're responsible for the state in which you two have been in power for two years. I agree, a man of culture, answers questions. I don't see what the problem is. A few things. First, I would suggest that you consider the possibility, since you cannot increase the minimum profit, to introduce the maximum profit in the public sector. Do not tax a soldier who has 26,000 dinars with 10%, but say the maximum profit in the public sector of 100,000 dinars, while the crisis is going on, or 80,000. If you have 80,000, make that much money. Don't take those who don't. Even the law you had, the solidarity tax, which was completely inappropriate, punished those who were educated. Now I suggest you save those who have problems. Secondly, I'd like to ask you, since I'm really looking for a final figure and a definition of the public sector. What's the public sector to you? Is it just the ones who are on the budget or the self-income, then the sum? What's the public sector? Now I ask you this, not to provoke you in any way. I believe that even in this room, people aren't clear when they talk about it, about these 780,000 people in the public sector. Is that on the budget or are they workers of the flag of arms factory in Kragujevac or the water pipeline, which are only income? It's a very important thing. People need to know that not all of these people are on the back of the people, but are in the public sector, but they are income and pay taxes and still pay profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what I'd like to ask you, and I'm glad you responded in one way that's decent, with what I'd like you to tell your colleagues, you came from McKenzie,... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... What position were you in and which Mr Djelic was in when he came to Serbia? If he was the boss, he wasn't the boss. Who is the Serb Antiquic, the IMF gentleman? You can also mention Ivan Vujačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2059	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2060	Mr. Chairman, more violations of the Rules of Procedure have been done today. That's why I urge you, as chairman, to raise the level of the presidency. Given that today is several times different from the topic, and hence the agenda. I don't think that degree of tolerance is allowed anymore. I don't think the other MPs should suffer such a degree of tolerance, regardless of who it is, whether it's the MPs from the post, so to us, or whether it's the MPs from the opposition. The opposition will prove its capacity or lack of its capacity. This has been countless times today, jumping out of the agenda. I urge that we bind ourselves to the agenda point. I realized that Mr. Minister is in the mood to answer all the questions, but his view is also to attach ourselves to the agenda points that we are discussing today and to continue this session in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2061	Mr. Jovanovic, first of all, you didn't say which member he was. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Article 27) Secondly, I must say, you insulted me. You humiliated me and said I couldn't run the assembly. That's how I see it. Please take care of what you say and how you talk. I can accept not knowing how to lead, then tell the Members of Parliament, I'll get up, I'll leave, and I'll thank you. So that's one thing. If I take the left-hand side, this one's insolent. If I take this side for granted, she's rebelling. I know I can't be just at all. I'm always guilty here, but my conscience is clean. So, I'm not tending, and I'm sure that's what I'm telling you. I want to bring this congregation to an end, to maintain my dignity as long as possible. That dignity depends much more on you participants than on me. I can punish, I can make warnings. What did I do then? To leave, to leave this room. Is that the goal? It's not. I think we understand each other very well here. Perhaps you're right that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you, do you want to make a statement in the voting day about this breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2062	Mr. Chairman, I don't think we understand each other. There was no motive, no intention of demeaning anyone, especially you. I don't insist on this voice injury, but like all MPs, I am convinced that we have come out of the agenda several times today. I'm not asking you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2063	Please, Mr. Jovanovic, there's no need to lead the line with me. I just said you have to keep an eye on who's going through it. Everyone can live, even if I know you weren't mean. I was just trying to prove how you can twist one simple thing upside down. Mr. Babice, on what basis you're answering.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2064	Replica, Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me for a personal mention of the name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2065	Mr. Sutanovac, he did mention your name, but he didn't say anything ugly. Please, he didn't say anything ugly, he just introduced your name as an example of Mr. Minister's response. Based on that, I can't give you a replica. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2066	I would like to thank you, Mr Vice President, and I would like to remind you that the vice president of the National Assembly is helping the president of the National Assembly do business in his work. I'd like some rights and obligations to be defined here in this room. If the rights of SNS MPs are lower than others, I will agree, but I just want to know why they are smaller and on what grounds are smaller? Why am I being taken away from my word on the replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? You said, Mr. Chairman, I had no right. On the other hand, Mr. Sutanovac is given the right to replica after advertising my injury to the Rules of Procedure. Why double standards? As soon as the double standards are out of place, this congregation doesn't lead at that time. I'll take my chances, punish me, shut me down, arrest me, do whatever you want, but from now on, I'll tell you who's responsible for our country's overindebted debt, and that's what the former DS-led regime is responsible for. That they were responsible for lying to 400,000 people who agreed to get jobs without getting jobs. That they are responsible for the 400,000 people they have left out of work are also responsible for them. (President: Thank you, Mr. Granny.) And that's why you can do whatever you want, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back to this chair and say the same things until... Serbian citizens do not know what burden this government and SNS are struggling with. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2067	Thank you. Mr. Granny, if you've really experienced it that way, I'm really sorry. I got some sympathy left or right. Here when I'm, believe me, you're all the same to me. I did not give Mr. Sutanovac a replica of your violation of the Rules of Procedure, but of the Minister's presentation and he exclusively addressed the Minister. I guess that's how much we see, please. On that basis, he was not given a replica, but according to your injury to the Rules of Procedure, but based on the presentation of the minister. Mr. Sutanovac, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2068	He said we were responsible for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2069	Please don't, Mr. Shutanovac. I didn't let him. I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2070	May I speak to the Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2071	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2072	It's a business thing. I have to say, Article 106 is actually 107. Excuse me. Let's add, with reference to article 27 that you've been called for, which has nothing to do with your performance, absolutely, I have to say with great respect for your colleagues, absolutely nothing. Please make sure that MPs when they call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure are very creatively interpreting these numbers, so that we do not enter into that practice because everyone is going to flush the number they want. Why Article 107? So, Mr. Chairman, you've now released one very, very unfortunate thing here to happen during the apparition of the Rules of Procedure's breach. That the MP who got up here, I don't know why he lost his temper, it doesn't interest me personally at all, but he has no right to speak to you and to tell you through a threatening form what he's going to do and that he won't calm down until we answer politically and otherwise. It deserves a warning, in my opinion. That's where you had to warn a man, to give him a warning because if I told Mrs. Gojkovic, for example, that I wouldn't calm down until the other side paid the political and any other price for insubordination to this people, I would get right out of this building. I say it as an example. It's these double arches, so most colleagues shouldn't be angry, because there's nothing to move about, there's no reason, because they use such hard words that aren't the place in this congregation, really. That's where you were supposed to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2073	I mean, regardless of Mr. Babic's reaction, his emotional response I realized quite differently. I didn't realize the point against anyone, but simply his desire for him to express what he means. So that's it. You can claim the right to vote on the day, Mr. Stefanovic... Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from the place: Replica. The mention of most. I gave the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you a replica. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic. You can hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2074	To Article 107. About the dignity of the National Assembly. Just before you pointed out whether you were wrong or not, the messenger who advertised to you, he turned his back on you and didn't even care what you said. So basically that previous story of his injury to the Rules of Procedure didn't interest him, he just wanted to show some political attitude and then you had to warn him of course. This is a terrible insult to the congregation, that you invite him, he turns his back and is not at all interested in what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2075	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2076	Thank you. In today's discussions, we have agreed that the economic and economic situation in Serbia is difficult, and that the unemployment situation is alarming. In Serbia, more than or about a million people are unemployed. The unemployment rate of persons aged 15 to 65 is 45% and the average age of unemployed is 39 years. About four years is the average length of waiting for work. This is definitely the data that warns us, and it's a good thing that the economy and the state have finally agreed on the need to solve problems in the economy and, above all, address the burning unemployment problem. The bill we are discussing today is just one step or one way to stimulate employment in the private sector. In addition to these laws, Serbia needs a comprehensive tax reform, the adoption of a new inspection law with special reference to labour inspection, as well as a change in criminal policy. The problem of unemployment doesn't date back yesterday. This problem has been present for years in Serbia, and in various ways it has been tried to solve this problem through co-financing, through subsidies, through various forms of stimulation, the first chance programme, a project to help with employment, subsidising employment of more employable categories, a project of employment of persons of Roma nationality, etc. In the past few years, the National Employment Service has financially supported around 80m euros in employment for about 55,000 unemployed. In all this time, however, the number of unemployed in Serbia has not been reduced as it tells us that these measures were short of breath and that the employment of the persons on this route took as long as the subsidy period and applied. The proposals for these laws today address not only the issue of unemployment but also long-term major problems for the economy, such as working on black. In Serbia, between 300,000 and 1,000,000 workers working without a contract or a contract on work and the like, as well as a problem of grey economy which is a major problem in Serbia because one third of businesses operate in the gray zone. It is assumed that by the end of 2014, by curbing the grey economy, Serbia could earn 100m euros. All in all, the aim of these laws is to, above all, those persons working on black, to be reported by employers, and to increase employment rates. However, I am sure, Mr. Minister, that you are also aware that these laws will not solve the problem and drastically change the situation. Entrepreneurs and in general the private sector employ when they need new workers, and they have the need for new workers when they increase the volume of work. In Serbia, the potential of the economy is reduced to the level of individual companies. Many companies and companies lead the battle for survival and barely maintain liquidity. In addition to these proposals, employment laws are key investments that will employ the private sector, lead to an increase in the volume of work and thus create the need to employ new workers. Also, we have to work on empowering young people, encourage them to have a entrepreneurial spirit and their own business, so they hire themselves and more unemployed. In addition to new employment for the goal, we must have that to preserve existing jobs. Micro-enterprises in Serbia, which have the highest, account for about 80% of micro-enterprises, account for the total number of companies in Serbia and employ up to 10 workers, which is 16.5% of the total number of employees. We need to find ways to motivate these companies not to fire any workers and encourage them to hire new workers. The minister came out, I wanted to ask a question and I heard his explanation – what happens to companies that have contracted with the government over the past months to subsidize new jobs, and in the meantime they didn't start working and they didn't hire any workers? Do these companies have the right to vomit under these laws? I have already said that we are all agreed that the economic situation in Serbia is difficult, but there is a perspective of progress through the reform of the business environment, through the reform of the tax system, through the development of activities for foreign and domestic investments and through the creation of a stable and predictable legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2077	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2078	Dear Chairman, I'd like to ask you to wait for the minister to hear my statement. I think I have the right to ask and that you, as chairman, allow me to come and honor the MPs and this presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2079	The minister came out for a moment to make a phone call. He'll be right back in the O.R. You can start, but if you want, we can wait, but I'd like to ask you to start. He'll be right inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2080	Then can you give me back my time from the beginning?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2081	Yeah, you'll be on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2082	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today when we are discussing this law that should make certain resources that are not at all small shifts from the health sector to the PIO sector, I would like to say that I disagree with this, given that our health system is in very poor shape, that two years in a row the "Helt Consumer Index" declares Serbian health as the worst of several parameters. The parameters that are followed by Brussels are waiting lists which have become fashion in Serbia and which in many cases have elements of corruption by directors who have made artificially these waiting lists, but when you see that during the day, the minister has received information that the Republic Fund has created a surplus, I as a doctor who has spent 20 years working in a hospital in Nis, knowing the conditions of treatment of our patients, and the work of our doctors and nurses in Serbia, with surprise I can accept this information that someone saved money in the Republic Fund and that we are now rerouting that money somewhere else, and we are not using it in favour of treating patients and in favour of the work and raising the quality of health work of our doctors and nurses. I know very well that the Republic Fund, Mr. Minister, amounts of two billion euros per year from the Serbian budget slightly more than 50% spent on health workers' salaries in Serbia, 14% on medicines, 35% on energy costs, sanitary materials, implants and aids, and 4% on sick and travel expenses. I'm asking you, Minister, on what basis did the Fund make a savings account, given that on salaries that were more than 55% unsaving, where was that savings made? I can tell you that many tenders have failed, that many of our hospitals do not have modern appliances because these tenders have failed. I'm asking you, is anyone incapacitated in that Republic Fund and who couldn't do the tenders right? Now someone boasts that he had savings, because of one poor health care that needs to provide health care to Serbian citizens, you take off and put it in another sector. I strongly oppose this, because the conditions of treatment in our hospitals are the conditions of the 1960s and '70s, both on a daily basis, doctors and nurses, and the worst patients see on their skin what kind of hospital rooms they're in, what operating rooms they're going into, what kind of appliances we're working with, what instruments are, what kind of sterilizers are in hospitals. Don't just look at Belgrade, Serbia is more than Belgrade. Serbia and Ruma, where the maternity facility is closed, is Serbia and Vrbas, where pediatrics are closed, Serbia is both Trgovište and Bosilegrad and Babusnica where treatment conditions are very poor. We need to invest every penny in the quality of health care, improve the health system, and not say anything – we have saved money here. We unfortunately Serbian health care must together strengthen and improve it, rather than take money from the poorest part of society, practically from the ministry and the health sector. Let's look for that money in other positions and get into health care... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... to make an effort to invest with some other items in the health sector, to increase investment in health care in order to enable better quality and better treatment of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2083	Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, reportedly, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2084	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure of Rule 107, which is that the unrespectable dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is not respected again if false things are spoken in this house and behind the pay phone. For SNS, I believe for all Serbian citizens, no one can say that he is satisfied, too satisfied with the level of health care. We're looking for more quality, we're looking for better conditions. One where you should have warned a colleague, or if it's a plea of guilt, then it's okay to say that the level of health care in Serbia is at the level of the 1950s and 1960s, that is, last century. What does that mean? Does this mean that in 2012 it was at the level of the 21st century and that in two years it was destroyed, which is absolutely not true, or is the responsibility of the previous speaker, which is why our health care is at the level of the '50s and '60s? Therefore, this presentation of the previous speaker, and you have not interrupted it, is considered to be a plea of guilt, which is why our level of health care is at the level of the 1950s and 1960s, or is being denied because it is not at the level of the 1950s and 1960s. Just tell me what it is. Something cannot be said without being behind it, to send a message that both health care and child diseases are, unfortunately, being used for political purposes in the most terrestrial way possible. Either it's a plea of guilt, and I'd really like to hear it, for health care management over the past 12 years, or what's been said is not in line with the truth, and that's where you should have warned the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2085	Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic answered, but I won't give you my word because you just had thirty and a few seconds longer. It wasn't a replica. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I won't give you my word. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Mr. Kiriq, you're out of time. Let the Parliament of People be prepared, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2086	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I don't know where to begin. We've heard a lot of things here today. I was particularly interested in this subject of public procurement, especially in health care. It's better that those people who mention how they're happening now, don't mention how they've happened before, because our health system, among other things, is through these public procurements, and how well they've been robbed, and today we've come into a situation precisely because our health system has come to the lowest possible branches. All this stuff that someone had said during some previous period of this discussion that something was wrong now, so he could have done it over 12 years of government. We've had an affair of "pig flu," so I don't know what it is, and now someone's respecting our health care system today. I'm also talking about the pension system. Someone's asking, why do we have to transfer money from one health care system to retirement? I'm really sorry, but this country has been well robbed in various ways, to the extent that we don't have any business today, so that you can normally finance pensions, because here public enterprises have served to pump money, because here we have a tax administration that has tolerated someone from ten years of tax. Because we've had really amazing things here about the gray economy, they've been doing businesses that haven't reported anyone or reported people to a minimumer, and then they pay them cash, envelopes to someone. I'm really shocked at what kind of remarks we're experiencing here. We even have one contradiction. One authorised representative says we should give bonuses to good managers, which I might be able to agree with. The second one says we limit their salaries to ministers. I really know what this is all about, and I just don't know what these people stand for. Speaking of lack of funds, they mentioned each other as an elemental accident. Of course, I've done a little bit of doing it, so I'll read something now. That's why we don't have the resources, by the way, to let you know. The Anti-Corruption Council, I am talking about 2011, then sent a letter to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, in which he warns of the non-transparent work of the Republic hydrometeorological institution and the uncontrolled spending of the city's defence funds, which has caused more than 8.5m euros in damage in the previous period. So this is not said by anyone from the Serbian Progressive Party, this was said by the Anti-Corruption Council, led by Mrs Verica Barac. Among other things, it also indicated that it was a controversial quality of these missiles. Not to say that the tender was staged so that the prices were high, instead of 20,000 cost 30,000 of those rockets per piece, that they weren't even purchased, and only 3,000 rockets were taken, not even 15,000 rockets were purchased to the end. Someone embezzled the money, the money's gone, and we have damages of 8.5m euros. Otherwise, that year we had terrible damage from the city, especially in municipalities such as Knić or some other municipalities where people were completely destroyed crops, which are vegetables, which are fruits, which are wheat, which are all other cereals. And today someone asks us: Where is the means? Well, there's this kind of embezzlement. Someone here systematically robbed the state. It's really systematic. Today, what happens with these laws, I understand Mr. Krstic, sometimes you have to defend something that isn't popular. You think anyone here likes having to transfer from the health fund to retirement? No one likes it, but until the state gets on its feet, until we start some business, until you have some real source of income for those pensions, I'm sorry, what do we pay people off? Someone used to be in debt, raise commercial loans to pay their pensions. Is that politics? Is that how it should continue? Mr Krstic, in the end, I would just ask you, just to be clear, about this law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the income tax of citizens, if it is already an urgency that everyone in the state sector cannot use benefits from this, only to put in a word, if the Government can submit an amendment, that the tax relief from this member cannot be achieved by state authorities and organisations, that it stands – state and public enterprises, public services and other direct or indirect budget users. Why am I telling you this? Because there are state-owned companies that are not public, not even budget users. There are such companies, so maybe it should be specified. In the end, I have to add as far as the gray economy is concerned, or the black economy, it's been watered here for years, grown. Someone here was growing a gray economy. I've already mentioned an example of tax administrations. Someone here had the directors of the tax administration. For years, not some people, taxpayers paid taxes at all, and nobody touched them, they did good business. Now that someone's trying to change that, we have terrible resistance. Mr. Krstic, I'd like to ask you to do a comprehensive reform of the tax administration, I'd like something like that to happen. Let's say, in particular, the sector I'm dealing with recently, the director of the sector within the tax administration noted that at this point, even with interventions and police and tax police, etc., we have 30% of the illegal market. So far it's been about 40.50, which is a really scary number, and these 30 are creepy, but unfortunately that's what someone left us and today we pay tribute to it, and that's why today we have to have laws like this, which we have to support if we want the country to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2087	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, reportedly, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2088	Dear Chairman, I am advertising Article 107, only one segment of that member – using offensive expressions. Mr. Babic knows that, I'm already the third convocation in the National Assembly and never anyone, nor do I intend to offend. I was presenting the official data "" which rated Serbia for the second year in a row that is the worst on the European continent according to the parameters I have spoken. The parameter that Serbia has twice the mortality rate for all causes of death or three times the mortality rate due to diseases of blood and blood vessels is clearly the size of the problem. It's official data. That's what citizens see every day, and that's what doctors see every day. So, in no replica, nor in any speech did I take any of the MPs in a negative context, nor did I make any false statements, which can be verified. The data I presented were official data "", which declared Serbia second year in a second place. If we're going to keep sticking our heads in the ground, not realizing that we have to invest in health care for these patients and for the sake of the doctor, because we're working in very bad conditions, it's just cry out, and this poor voice of mine may seem pathetic, but you literally cry out. Health care's been destroyed. I'm not saying that half a year ago was destroyed, it was destroyed for 20 years systematically, as if someone was knowingly or deliberately trying to destroy that health care to develop the private sector. That's what I'm up against. We have to regulate that, but we can't regulate it without money and make better health care. That's why I'm fighting for every dinar that's being removed from the health care sector and I'm looking to attract some dinar into the health care sector, to improve our hospitals, to improve our patient treatment conditions, because now this looks nothing like anything. Whether it's the 50th or the 60th or the 70th, that's what the citizens see every day. Take a look at Belgrade Starr, a clinic hospital center, which looks like a part of it. It's sad and we have to have better treatment conditions. On my side, only good will, and this is the information you should have heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2089	Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2090	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2091	Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, came forward. Since you're directly mentioned, I'll give you a line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2092	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. As a rule for everything, so is I. Infringement of Rules of Procedure of Rule 32, Mr. Chairman, I think you had to react, because although not all of us rarely use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but at least to introduce in that replica such a slightly more invisible, elastic and more beautiful way, not just to say a member of this and that, and then for the next two minutes to be used for replication. I think at least you should have warned the previous speaker, but I don't mind. All he said was actually an answer to my asked question a few minutes ago, and that answer is very simple to interpret as -- that it is responsible for the party whose previous speaker belongs, which is why our health care is in a state of the '50s, '60s or '70s. Yes, the former regime is responsible, which is why this is the situation in KBC Starr. Yes, the former regime is responsible for everything that has been going on in health care for the past 12 years. And I see it as one admission of guilt, and by that previous speaker, I'm really giving it to the point. You know, when I was talking about responsibility, I also talked about political responsibility, I talked about other responsibilities, and only an immoral man doesn't recognize moral responsibility. I think that fellow Milosavljevic understood it unlike some representatives of his parliamentary group who had no moral responsibility for not knowing each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2093	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Thank you. Thank you. People's MP Borislav Stefanovic, on what basis? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. What member? Are you quoting a member of the Rules of Procedure? Article 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2094	Mr. Chairman, you've had to react in this situation. Why? Because I understand Mr. Babic said even at one point – we need to make some rules about the abuse of a conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure. All right, but this is how you twist things, to make such a lie about DS MPs and finally to say that we are immoral, and you don't react because he's an immoral man who doesn't know... Why did you shut me out?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2095	Mr. Stefanovic, I've never heard of the DS mentioned. The former regime is mentioned, if you have recognized yourself in the sentence "ex regime", go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2096	Mr. Chairman, the DS has never run Serbia's health sector. Mr. Babic knows that very well. Mr. Babic only doesn't know when he's talking about the former regime talking about Mr. Vukic's previous government and thus attacking his president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2097	Mr. Stefanovic, if you're saying that DS wasn't running a health care resort, then I don't understand why you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Then why did you recognize yourself in the sentence of the former regime? Don't make fun of me from the bench. Thank you. Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic, on what basis? Here you go. You have no right to a replica. [[Ljuvica Mrdaković Todorovic, from the place: Based on replica.]] Thank you. According to the list of speakers, Milisav Petronijevic has the word. Here you go. He gave up. The word is a folk letter from Vesna Rakonjac, and let Darko Laketić be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2098	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, a set of laws that today is the topic of our conversation is basically a short-term and extorted solution in these difficult moments. As my colleague Djukanovic mentioned, no one likes me to simply spill out of the part that's scheduled for health insurance into the part for the PIO fund, but it's inevitable. It is inevitable that from the part where we can save on public procurement, as counterpart Milisavljevic mentioned, which is 35% when the tenders for energy are at stake, because we know that there have been major malversions in that part. Then 14% when the drugs are at stake and if we run tenders that will be correct we have real suppliers can be saved. In fiscal policy, we can save in one part of the profits without speaking on business trips and journals. Therefore, savings in that part of the fund can be made without being at the expense of the insurance company. If we listen carefully to the minister, it is said – if there is a deficit in this part of the money he will simply be refunded from the budget. So, if it is, and we know that there is already a deficit in the PIO fund, and this way we can overcome it. In this way, we will ensure that our pensioners can rest so that they will continue to receive regular pensions from which they support not a small number of their children, but also their grandchildren. So this, as I said, is an extortional solution and a short permanent solution until we simply start to start the economy, to employ a larger number of citizens, to attract investors. This kind of policy that we have proposed, which is an offer for investors to hire people, get them out of the gray zone, and we simply have a bigger inflow in the budget. As far as our state of health is concerned, it has been in such a state for a long time, meaning, 15 years, our health of the Greeks, but this is not the result of the previous government from 2012 to 2014 but has been a consequence since the 1990s, and has culminated since 2001, especially when dealing with cardiovascular diseases and other massive non-infectious diseases. The moment all preventive actions were expelled from regular funding from the Fund. At the time, I did not hear any votes against when preventive branches were placed on the market, ruthlessly, and doctors who worked in public health offices placed in such a position as to fight for their own wages and citizens' health with superhuman efforts. And we've been over it. We won a good job and that market, not to mention health care in dentistry where you simply put them in an unequal position and dentists and put the whole preventive activity into a situation because you put them on the market. Then you didn't take care of the prevention and the mass non-infectious diseases. You didn't care at the time, and now that we're simply collecting the consequences of what happened from 2000 to 2012. Unfortunately, we have a repercussion now. Now it's visible and transparent, then it's hidden, it's what you honor us for. I don't think that's right. We want to hire Serbia. We want to have a health insurance population. We want to have pensioners who will have regular incomes. Thank you. And it's a message from the SNS, and we will certainly support all these measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2099	Thank you. Mr. Milosavljevic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2100	She mentioned me. Yes, I've been mentioned. I'm looking for stenographic notes. Sir, I've been mentioned by the chairman in part of the energy tender. I'm mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2101	Here you go, Mr. Lucky.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2102	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, I will first and foremost speak of the provisions of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance whose amendments and additions are being made. First of all, the fact is that reducing the rate of contribution to compulsory health insurance of 2% will not indirectly result in a reduction in the amount of money being poured into the RFZO. However, I would really like to put an accent on several very important things and moments that were mentioned on several occasions by Mr Minister, but also by a number of MPs. First of all, in Article 45 whose amendment is proposed and complemented, it is clearly said that the employer will indeed, with these measures, 65%, 70% and 75% of the return on contributions, have very stimulating measures to employ new workers. What is very important is that part of these funds, it is 18 billion dinars, as calculated by the mathematical budget that the funds will be less by the end of the year in the RFZO budget, will, above all, be compensated by the increase in the number of regularised persons, primarily regular health insurance. I am also of the view that this will stimulate the regular employment of workers again with the orderly payment of contributions, not on black, and will again increase the number of workers to be paid under our legal regulatory contribution to compulsory health insurance. What is also important and what Mr. Minister mentioned is that if the funds collected in this way are not sufficient to implement adequate public health care, the rebalancing will be defined by means. Personally, I think that these funds, if they are ever directed towards the RFO, because the inflow of funds for these two reasons that I mentioned earlier will definitely be higher, I don't believe that these funds will be of any greater scope. What I would also like to praise is the savings of the RFO, thanks to which this is actually the way the redistribution of contributions is done. According to RFZO, it is 32.5m euros this year. What I would also comment on, and several times it has been mentioned as a topic in the presentation of MPs, is primarily the fact that there was an RFO debt to pharmaceutical houses. However, the debt that has been converted into public debt was created right during the rule of the former government. So the irresponsible government and the people who did it during that period are just responsible for the existence of something like this in our country. What matters is whether the best solution is to translate it into a public debt or not. This is a question we can really discuss, but the question we cannot discuss is where we have found a solution to this problem for one single reason – because there was an irresponsible power in the earlier period. That's where I'd put my point on the comments. The quality of health care has been mentioned several times. The quality of healthcare definitely has to do with both correlation and the amount of money invested in health care, but it does not depend solely on the amount of money. One adequate organisation of health services, with the repair of many parameters on which we will all work together, will definitely improve the quality of health care. What is also important is that I personally believe that this much concern of opposition MPs about the amount of money that will be directed towards the health of this country, and I am talking about the money of the RFO, I really think that after such reasoned explanations by Mr Minister and one detailed analysis of most MPs is not appropriate and I think there is no room because I have already mentioned the ways in which the RFZO budget will be filled and, time will show, I personally think that even this minus 18 billion will be replaced. What is most important, in my opinion, is that these measures will increase the number of workers with a certified book, the number of citizens with a certified health book and paid health contributions. That's what's very important and it's important first and foremost for us doctors because we meet every day practically in real life with this problem when a patient comes without a certified medical book. For the end, I'd say next. The point is, I don't know what context we're the worst in. Serbia has decided and the citizens of this country have decided to lead the country the best, not the worst. I don't think it really needs to be discussed in that sense if I understood the presentation of one of the previous MPs. What I think is most significant is that these amendments and additions to the law will definitely create an adequate environment for new employment of workers, allowing adequate and in accordance with the law of payment of contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2103	Thank you. I would give only one notice to the DS parliamentary group, as I have received a memo informing myself that the DS parliamentary group will be represented by MP Goran Ciric on the basis of a joint principled search of item 1 and item 2 of the fourth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. I'll read article 39. "In the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group may authorise one member to represent a parliamentary group for a certain item of the agenda, which the president of the parliamentary group shall, in writing, inform the President of the National Assembly until the hearing is opened on that item of the agenda." Since this is the third memo and the third change, and it wasn't delivered before the search opened, I can't give you my word on this basis. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are entering the final part of this debate over two laws that have had a lot of controversy, a lot of conflicted opinions and interests, a lot of express concerns, but I can also say a lot of false things. The very effects of the law will be seen when they enter into application, but I'd like to talk a little bit about the reasons for passing these laws. What has stopped our beloved country from stopping Serbia on this strong European path and led to this number of unemployed people? Serbia's problems have long been covered up and has long been inaccessible to our country, to our citizens, to our workers, so that the peak of this concern began in 2008 and ended in 2012. There were fellow MPs here who presented some very interesting details, so here I am in these reasons for passing such a law to say some facts and some details. As is known, the global economic crisis began in 2008. Serbia then sold about a billion euros in foreign exchange reserves in October 2008 to preserve the stability of the dinar course. The course of the dinar not only wasn't preserved, but it jumped from 80 dinars to 94. This has been done so intensively that the money received for the privatisation of NIS from Russia has literally been spent from foreign reserves in less than a week. The crisis continues in 2010. A billion and 500m euros have been sold again, the dinar course has jumped from 94 to 108 dinars. The problem continued in 2012. By June, a billion and 420m euros in foreign exchange reserves were sold, and the euro rate went from 108 to 119,80 dinars, so I would ask colleagues who care to explain to me where they spent 4.5 billion euros? What's that? It's a little something, isn't it? The euro rate has jumped by more than 50%. Is it normal to spend 300m euros in foreign exchange reserves and exchange rates on the euro by almost four dinars? Since many people do this – and what does it have to do with employment, here, I will say the consequences of the economy. Our companies were in charge of loans that were indexed in euro, mostly private, small and medium-sized enterprises that could not repay loans because of these exchange rates, but fired employees and most often ended up with a lock on the door, part of it. The second part is, to save himself and make any chance of survival, get out of the legal business and enter the gray zone. What was the state doing? As the number of employees decreased, she led a very demagogue policy in that period since 2008-2012, which is to care for her citizens, and she cared for her citizens by borrowing them more and more. They even had the courage to show as a big side investment of two billion euros for sale "Maxia". Probably, if they could sell Telecom, that would be a foreign investment. Foreign investment was probably also that powerful steel that ended up in Sartid, which belonged to the defence ministry. It was all their foreign investments. Now we have come to the fact that in those four years, we have an express increase in the unemployment rate of 400,000 people. And then we bid – whether in 2012 or 2013 there were seven, eight, 16 or seven, eight or 16,000 people left without a job, precisely those who are the greatest critics of these measures and of this law. I order them to turn behind themselves, to look at Serbia as they left us who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to look at Serbia as they left our children, every child in Serbia, and then to come and talk about how the law should be implemented or not implemented. What's so terrible about the state giving incentive measures from the area of contributions paid to newly employed workers? I say new employees, because the law is very precise and says that the basis for achieving this subsidy is the number of employees concluded on 31 March 2014. So to gain the right, you can employ 10 more workers, but when you fire the first 10, you have no right to subsidies. Does anyone not know how to count? It's obvious he doesn't know or won't tell the truth what the law says. I heard stories about the Health Services Fund. Where do these funds come from, tax and employee contributions? They are filled from value added tax, filled from various other bases. How do you think our citizens and our economy fill that up if they don't have certain incentives? What's a real sector employee worth? Imagine hiring 200 or 300 people in a town. You've hired this directly by some incentive measures. Do you know that other actions in which you have not invested are increasing, increasing the number of employees, increasing consumption? Are we just going to do dry statistics and what if it were? These are the problems that are trying to solve this law, to give incentives for those who work in accordance with the law, to invest in their businesses, in their business, to expand their activities, and for others who, because of the catastrophic policy that has been conducted since 2008-2012, have moved into a gray zone to return to the real, to start paying taxes and not to be afraid when they pass the tax or some other police besides some warehouse, cargo store, which smugglers, but to start working in accordance with the law. These are the objectives of this law. Is this enough? It's not. Is this one of the possible solutions? Yes, it is. Will we be satisfied with the results of these laws? It probably won't be any of us, but I'm sure if we get at least one job in all of Serbia and no one loses a job, it's worth a bill like this, because you've provided at least one family. The on-call critics can imagine and let them say what they did for their country, except they criticized, and those who are now criticizing, and they should have worked for their country, let them see what their actions are. We in SNS are not ashamed of it, and we are not afraid of responsibility. So we will support one of these laws, a law that may be only a small part of the reform of the economic ones, which should finally move Serbia with the path that we have been going for 12 years and which was wrong, to move it and turn it on that road that guarantees a future, and also to us who are already taught some experiences and certain hope that this future can be good, even for our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2105	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2106	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, in my presentation I will probably repeat myself with my colleagues from the SNS, but I don't think it's an excuse for our audience to hear that, too. We all know, both we and our citizens, that the economic situation in our country is very difficult, never more difficult, because of the poor economic policy of the previous government, the unreasonable borrowing and financing of the work of excessively and illicitly expensive loans, so that the practice must be terminated. I must tell you that I am deeply moved as a doctor who has worked for 27 years on both the primary level of health care and the secondary level of care of some of my colleagues for the future of our health system and the future of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I would just ask - who, in the previous period since 2008-2012 and much earlier, were these directors of primary health care at the local and the republic, directors of branches of the Republic Health Insurance Fund in many cities, and we all know what heritage and debt they left us? Let's get back to the subject. First of all, I'd like to say something about a bill on income tax for citizens. Given the fact that a large number of people employed are still in the gray zone, i.e. working on a black, good part, such a system of work prevails in the economic structure of our country, we have heard, 15% more than in the EU countries, this bill aims to motivate employers to apply proposed reliefs and redundancies to allow a number of employees who are now working on black to be employed, with the possibility of using all the rights that arise from working relationships, which means that they have a job, that they have paid medical, social, pension insurance, etc. We are aware that the surplus labour force on the market allows individual employers to abuse the current situation, but this government and this state are doing everything possible to get in the way of this phenomenon and to minimise this phenomenon. On the other hand, this is an incentive for foreign investors who, when they invest money in Serbia and create new jobs, respect each letter of the law and thus are very often in an unequal fight with individual domestic employers who have had a large number of workers employed in black. The rules of the competition must be the same for all and the state must take, as it is now taking, appropriate preventive and repressive measures to create and maintain a favourable market environment. The law, above all, aims at discharging economic operators in order to increase employment of new workers, aims to eliminate the grey zone in the area of employment, translate it into legal flows, and all of this has a fiscal consolidation. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, we have heard from my colleagues from the SNS and from Mr. Minister that all these proposed measures will not affect the quality of health care, the nature of health insurance is not changed. The only way of funding is changed, and for the first time we have solidarity. The change in the rate of contribution will allow the savings made by the Republic Health Insurance Office to be made available to the State. I'm very proud, I suppose, of all my colleagues, which in the previous period, RFZO has positively done, domestic business, which will also be done in the future through a number of projects that it has started, so I'm just going to mention some of them. The reduction of contributions is transitory and is related to the country's economic recovery, so that as the country is economically strengthened, these measures of the law will also change. In the future, capacity reduction and costs are planned in the health system, in terms of reducing hospital beds, through reduction of the network of institutions and the network plan of institutions, and this applies, above all, to 5,000 beds in different hospitals in those where the current level is 50%. The services of home treatment and care will be strengthened, new services will be introduced, phone consultations for old and powerless persons. By introducing an electronic recipe, we will have savings on the cost of medicines for 100m euros per year. Also, by reducing the price of medicines, through a new regulation planned by the Republic Health Insurance Institute on the conditions for placing the drug on the list adopted next year, savings will be made at around 50m euros when we can expect a reduction and even a complete abolition of participation. It is necessary to change, of course, both the financing system and to encourage those who work even more to increase profits, because it must still be the ultimate result. I would like to say that the SNS advocates reforms in the health system and a brand-new Health Protection Act that he spoke about in his exhibition in detail and Prime Minister of the Government Mr. Alexander Vukic, so we from the SNS will support these two draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2107	The People's Messenger Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic has the word and have the MP Milorad Cvetanovic prepared for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2108	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax is extremely important for several reasons. It achieves another major task of government reform, as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic pointed out in his exposé, which is the development of private entrepreneurship by giving incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises through tax incentives, so that the employer can employ as many people as possible and invest in basic means of honest work. A minimum that is certainly acceptable for tax reliefs, whether they are effective or not, is to encourage and maintain a business and political climate favourable to business. The proposed legal solution creates a tax competitive advantage. Tax competition is a competition between states in attracting capital or investors to tax instruments, especially tax incentives and reliefs. What matters is that this law will motivate our working people, who are innovative and creative, to be the best workers in their country, as in foreign countries. It should also be noted that these tax incentives cannot be achieved by state authorities and organisations, public enterprises, public services and other direct and indirect budget users, so that red tape does not arise. The law will allow for the functional economic development of our country and employment, both young people and those who have lost their jobs in very sensitive years, for example in the 45th year of life, and who have many years left to exercise their right to retirement. The proposed legislative solutions represent a major fiscal incentive for the employer to create new jobs. The law also enables grey economy to be introduced into legal flows. This is important, both for the employer and for the natural persons, i.e. the employees, because this law will enable them to exercise labour rights, and on this basis also to exercise the rights of compulsory social security, pension and disability rights, health insurance rights, and unemployment rights. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in addition to the above-mentioned significant objectives, which are also achieved by this law, this is about changing the portfolio of tax rates and tax incentives, which increases the sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system without increasing the overall fiscal burden on earnings, which allows stable planning and decision-making while ensuring conditions for comprehensive reform of the business environment. Giving priority to economic objectives, such as rapid growth and a reduction of unemployment, maintains Serbia's intention to address the lack of development in relation to EU members. Through tax policy, it is possible to influence both economic and social objectives. What is necessary is the spread of Serbia's citizens' tax awareness, as well as the strengthening of tax morality. A smart tax system is the basis for any successful economy and the SNS will support these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2109	The People's Messenger Milorad Cvetanović has the word, and the People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2110	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. In particular, and before the more detailed analysis of this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, as a long-standing small entrepreneur, deals with various areas of small business and business engagements within a small enterprise, I must say that this is a law that many small entrepreneurs have long and impatiently been waiting for, very burdened with contributions to employees who have somehow managed to settle. The desire to expand the list of employees has often been hampered by the inability to fulfil obligations towards the state for real reasons, although the need for a new employee and how it existed. Thus, new jobs were carried out, but in such a way that the grey zone of economic change spread, i.e. The number of employees has increased, jargonically speaking, to black. I have to say that work on black, i.e. without the registration of the newly employed workforce, it involves not only the newly employed without social, pension and health insurance, but also those who are registered for minimum personal income, so the employer saves in his own budget and on the burden of the state authorities. While the difference from the minimum reported and real personal income is paid in cash, which is, I may say, a general widespread phenomenon among employers. I never meant to look back on this information with disappointment, because it's far better than people's words – keep the workers black. With full right, I find, as an employer who employed not a small number of workers, a refund of paid taxes, and now from one to nine employees of 65%, from 10 to 99 per cent for 70% and over 100 employees, a 75 per cent refund, that this is a huge incentive for all employers, owners of small, medium and large enterprises that will save them significant trade resources and direct them into new development projects or strengthening existing ones. With this move, everyone wins hugely. One -- the RS government will, I'm sure, acquire considerable funding in the budget by reporting a large number of workers with a long-standing internship at the Employment Bureau and by employers due to very good incentives. Under two – employers will finally be able to relax and, given the much smaller contributions employed through the necessary workforce, without fearing the inspection bodies. Under three - employees will finally come to their legal rights and will not have to resort, not to say, to flee from the sudden inspection control, protecting themselves, but more employers who, in the event of their finding, would mostly be no longer returned. As a country with a far more tolerated number of unemployed on the record, which I'm almost sure will bring these incentive measures, we'll be far more esteemed, more respectable and more respected factor in bilateral relations in general. I believe that these measures in encouraging employment are a very important factor in our future economic development and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has precisely located the problems, made very correct conclusions and measures by which we will move very quickly to the recovery of our economy. Too much unemployment is a huge problem for every society, but the grey economic zone is an even more significant brake factor in many economies in the world and ours. We can only deal with it if we remove the causes of its creation. And one of the ways is these very stimulating measures that we're talking about. After their adoption, we have an even harder job to do, and that is a consistent check and application in practice, which is, you will agree, and the most difficult part of the package of measures that the government brings. I propose that after the educational period of time of the employer to whom this bill applies, systematic control of the implementation of these laws begins. The best indicator of the success of this law will be the succesive reduction of the unemployed from the record. For all these reasons, I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security and Vote for It. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2111	Thank you, Mr. Cvetanovic. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. And let the messenger of the people be prepared for the word, Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2112	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law of the recast labour law that we expect in the next period of time completely changes the labour market in Serbia and all large, small and medium-sized companies to a completely different position. These laws are the first laws to be reformed by this government and this government wants these laws to change one of the key macroeconomic parameters, the growth of social gross product, stable price levels and voluntary unemployment are three key macroeconomic parameters in one national economy. Today, we are trying to change the proposals of these laws two levels of employment and raise the growth of social gross products. The problem of unemployment is a wide problem, and when you talk about a regulated economy, then you usually talk about cyclic unemployment that occurs. The problem of cyclic unemployment arises at the moment when demand falls, which causes sales to fall, and hence the decline in demand on the labour market. All of this has resulted in an increase in unemployment levels. Today, when you talk about high unemployment, we usually talk about the big economic crisis of the 1930s, when the unemployment rate was about 25% of the American working population. We in Serbia have had that unemployment rate for too long. Today we received an opinion from the Fiscal Council that says unemployment in Serbia is structural. What does that really mean? This means that in one part of the national economy you have a marked demand on the labour market without having enough structure in another part where you have a demand for labour. Of course that's not true. If you are talking about the problem of unemployment and its precise definition, then cyclic crises are causing much greater and catastrophic consequences for the level of unemployment compared to structural crises. In Serbia, the crisis is systemic and it takes too long. If you have an unemployment rate of around 25% and it lasts continuously, then you can't talk about any significant shifts in the previous period of time concerning this macro-economic parameter. What we've been listening to today all day, and what we need to get back to theory, is the fact that the government of the Republic of Slovenia actually has nothing left but one of the two mechanisms that it can apply. It is today, in fact, talking about fiscal measures that are completely theoretically founded. It is about taxation and the RS government is today reducing its grips from the economy sector. At the same time, it includes another effect, a practical redistribution of funds and a part of the funds that would go to public consumption at the moment goes to personal consumption, including the effect of increasing demand and increasing the social gross product. Of course, the second effect that the government is announcing and that we all expect, which implies significant economic stability, is the price of capital. The price of capital, i.e. monetary policy, is a second parameter, and we will talk as much about loans that will have a lower price tomorrow and that will speed up growth and certainly increase employment. With the proposal of the first member, the practical government of the RS does not change anything more significant. There is only redistribution of funds, and this speaks of the social responsibility of the RS government that does not want the collapsed pension fund to collapse further and therefore takes care of the oldest population layer. Essentially this decision is contained in another member and, as never before, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes, and to my general satisfaction, we realize that practically completely abolishing the discriminatory measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that everything applies to this decision. In the previous period of time, we could often hear that certain groups on the labour market were privileged. We had privileged different investors, domestic and foreign, different locations, but for the first time all those who engage in new labour will have a reduction of 65, 70, and 75% of fiscal obligations depending on the fact that the employed population has withdrawn from the labour market. It certainly is a new, completely different shift in the adoption of republican laws. The amendment of these laws, today we could hear in the debate, is about full reliefs that have not been recorded in the fiscal system of RS so far. They were never bigger. When we were able to listen today to the benefits and did discrimination against the population of 30 or over 45 years, we only talked about one part of the benefits we received, and these were the obligations that applied to the state, or fiscal obligations on the burden of the employer. That couldn't have gone past 60%. At this point, it's at least 65%. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the growth and development of a national economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises are there to employ the largest number of working population and shockers to receive the first wave of economic recession in difficult times. For the first time, small and medium-sized enterprises are even with large investors and this certainly is a positive measure for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today, some speakers are right to say that this is a decision designed for start-ups. Practically, you're getting into a situation where this newly founded company, which enters the market, has the labour costs of 65%, and that's what it is. When you enter a new market, all newly founded companies face the cost of entering a branch. These entry costs are completely different from the branch to the branch, but they make companies located in the branch more competitive than companies entering. The moment you enter and in one key segment you have a 65% reduction in costs compared to companies already in the branch, your total costs put you in a position to maybe survive the first most difficult year in business. Newly founded companies that have already used perhaps a number of incentives that existed and at this point we from the SNS believe that this is the way that a new entrepreneurial shift on the market, both labour force and in the overall market of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, companies already on the market will not be faced with the problem that they cannot use these incentives but certainly, as their growth, or as their production grows, their individual products per new product will be smaller, and hence the total products, i.e. the price of the total products, will be lower. The problematic decision that the public has been facing very often lately and has lagged out over subsidies granted to foreign investors, this decision is partially deleted. They all have the same rights, regardless of the origin of the capital, so this decision also affects large investors. When we have heard about foreign investments today, we must say that this decision costs and contributes about 23% of the gross labour price at the moment, which places Serbia in a position that with the labour price it is extremely competitive, both on the regional and European market and creates an incentive for foreign investment. Although this decision, ladies and gentlemen, refers to an increase in the employment rate, it also has an effect on the growth of the social gross product. Today we hear that this decision is broad and comprehensive, and it should be so. The economic situation in Serbia, which we are currently in, is such that the growth of the branch does not contribute. There is a need for full and essential reform here, and therefore these measures involve full reforms in the area of labour. Of course, this decision has its fiscal burdens and its fiscal obligations, but, as we heard from the minister, positive effects are expected in its realisation. What I'd like to say in the end, when you follow economic theory and parallel practice, then what I think it is and what the minister should point out is that this model reminds Chicago Business School and Chilean Model. What we are applying today in Serbia, if you look at, for the tax payer, which is entrepreneurs, has a fiscal discharge effect that has contributed to the growth of the number of employees in Chile in the short term, and in the second step the social gross product is growing. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority of the assembly are expecting the same in the next period of time from these two draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2113	Thank you. The word is made by MP Nikola Jolovic, and let Enis Imamovic, the last registered speaker, be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2114	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, what I want to say about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is that this law should be supported. It should be supported because the proposed changes provide for a number of reliefs for employers who increase the number of employees by hiring new employees and thus further stimulate the process of employment and reducing the number of unemployed in the Republic of Serbia. Based on this law of stimulation, which is reflected in the return of part of paid contributions to compulsory social security on the burden of the employee and on the burden of the employer, they are seen in the following. So 65% if he started a working relationship with at least one, and at most with nine new employees, 70% if he started a working relationship with at least 10 and with a maximum of 99 new employees, 75% if he started a working relationship with at least 100 new employees. It is encouraging that this law excludes the possibility and regulates that these incentives cannot be achieved by public authorities, public undertakings, public services and other direct or indirect budget users. This once again confirmed the government's clear determination to stimulate employment in the private sector and the development of the economy as much as possible. By giving these reliefs to economic operators who employ unemployed persons, the Government of the Republic of Serbia additionally provides circumstances for the inflow of investments that will speed up economic growth and allow for more favourable conditions of injury, as in addition to other benefits provided by it, legal employment, a partial return of paid contributions to compulsory social security, employers will be able to compete with actions from the gray employment zone, which are precisely due to the avoidance of tax payments on the basis of the social insurance of workers offering cheaper products and services, creating a view of competition, and in fact by causing damage to both persons employed on black and inflicting damage to the state. What should be pointed out is that the application of this law will increase the income of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, that the financial effect for the Republic of Serbia's budget will be around 0.5 billion dinars for every 10,000 newly employed persons, that the proposed changes in the contribution rate will not affect overall the increase in the aggregate rate that remains unchanged, that the revenues of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund will increase by about 18 billion dinars by the end of this year, that private sector employers are given fiscal incentives to invest in jobs and employ as many persons as possible, as possible, as well as that natural persons who establish a working relationship exercise of mandatory social security rights. These are health insurance and unemployment insurance rights. Finally, it should be pointed out that all these positive effects of the law allow, without the state having any additional costs for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2115	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Enis Imamovic, as the last keynote speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about the proposed laws on income tax for citizens and on contributions to compulsory social security, I must first say that this is about an obvious good intention which essentially creates a space for deepening social differences between developed and undeveloped areas in the Republic of Serbia in the long term. There are about a million of our citizens living in underdeveloped municipalities, and that is the most vulnerable category of our population. These are all taxpayers, citizens of this country who, by all standards, are equal by the Constitution and by the laws of this country and who deserve an equal chance for development and development. In practice, however, this is not the case and we see from these draft laws that there is no systemic solution that should help develop undeveloped areas in our country. We can help the underdeveloped at every step and every legal solution. They should be the subject of every act we bring here. This law is sinking and does not deal with this problem. That is why we call on you to withdraw this law from the procedure and try together to predict a system solution that will aim to bring undeveloped municipalities in Serbia to the level of sustainable development. This is possible if we foresee subsidies that we will offer to interested investors, to motivate them to invest in undeveloped areas in Serbia. We in parliament represent the national minority of Bosniaks, citizens living in Sandzak and who today is one of the most undeveloped parts in the Republic of Serbia. In Sandzak, unemployment moves up to 70%, and on average it is twice as high as the republican average. We therefore believe that this is why it is important to anticipate the reliefs that should encourage investment in Sandzak, but also in all other undeveloped areas in the Republic of Serbia where majority and minority people live together, as I said at the beginning, millions of them. So these people get attention only in election campaigns. After these pre-election campaigns, their problems are transferred from law to law and their resolution is delayed indefinitely, and it is therefore important to pay attention to the essence, not to the form, and the essence is that in these areas unemployment and unemployment is enormous, and in some parts it is even below 40% of the republican average. That's what we here have to fight to keep the underdeveloped from getting more underdeveloped while the developed develops rapidly. These differences cannot be allowed by us because of European integration, because with regional differences like this, we really have nowhere to go in front of the EU. I know you've announced a bill that will treat investment and investment in undeveloped. That is why we suggest that at every step we should adopt acts that are in harmony with each other and that we should not again have to comply with these new future measures. So I'm saying all of this because of the fact that we're not gonna be able to motivate investment in underdeveloped people by this law. Investors are looking for legal certainty. They are looking for a stable political situation, an efficient administration and favourable legal solutions. That even requires our diaspora that can really invest. If we do not further improve investment conditions in undeveloped areas, we cannot increase investor interest to invest in underdeveloped areas. This legal solution really fails, and that is why it is unacceptable for us. With several amendments, we have tried to correct this proposal and I urge you to consider adopting these amendments that are currently treating the underdeveloped and correcting this injustice that has resulted in insufficient account of the underdeveloped. As we have heard, today some of the parties that come from the ruling majority, who have certain criticisms and certain reserves under this law. Once again, I urge you to pay good attention to our amendments and adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-26-0.u2117	I thank Mr. Imamovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? If not, I'm concluding a joint principle search. The session continues at 10.00 hours after a united discussion of the 3, 4th and 5th points of the agenda. Thank you.
