ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3767	In my address, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3768	Your Honor, you have replaced the card with Djordj Milicevic. Change the cards to keep your name on the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3769	In my address, I will talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. At the beginning, I would point out that the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration want to achieve greater control and efficiency in Serbia's tax system. What is the SPS MP's entire agenda for? Our parliamentary group particularly supports the proposed changes relating to the fact that the competent authorities will exercise control over taxpayers twice a month and that the tax administration will be much more flexible in the fight against the gray economy. This will allow changes to the practice so far, that in control other than people with a college degree are hired and people who are without high professional training, who, I am confident, will be trained and ready to do this responsible work the best way and do it. In addition, I would point out that additional electronic functions of the tax administration through the electronic submission of applications in many ways improves, facilitates and accelerates the work of the tax administration. Mr. Minister, yesterday in your presentation, you said this was about redefining criminal policy. Our MP group and I agree with you that some penalties should be increased, but we have one criminal provision of the tax administration, which prohibits the exercise of activity, especially small entrepreneurs, or the closure of the joints for seven, 10 or 15 days. We believe that this punishment does not contribute to the taxpayer, because a man loses his continuity in business, loses his right to work, and we believe that we can replace this sentence with a fine so that this criminal policy does not need to be applied in practice. You also talked yesterday about crediting the state, the taxpayers. Sometimes this measure is good, sometimes it helps the state as well as the taxpayers. However, you have dropped out of the sight that sometimes taxpayers credit the state, as we know that VAT returns are only for 45 days, and we also have government loans especially in the construction industry. That's what I was talking about when the prime minister held a meeting with construction firms, that construction firms credited the state by paying VAT on the invoiced value, not on the paid invoice, so the taxpayers credited the state as well. I think this measure is good, but I think this 10% interest is a little higher than the reference rate, but our parliamentary group will support this law. On the other hand, by reading the proposed changes, I have noticed the honourable ministers of several of the proposed amendments that I would like to further explain to you. One of them is this bill of law regarding the delivery of tax acts. That's what my colleague Susana Spasojevic spoke about yesterday and explained it in detail. She's an authorised representative of our group. We have also submitted an amendment and I believe that the Government should accept this amendment, and I will comment a little on this article of the law. In fact, Article 14 of this Bill, which concerns the amendment of Article 36 of the applicable law, defines how the tax administration acts are to be delivered. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article prescribe that the tax act shall be deemed to have been delivered on the 15th day following the day of the submission of the tax code. The position of the 10th same member shall be prescribed when the tax act is considered to be delivered, contrary to Article 24(1) point (7). The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which is prescribed that a taxpayer under this law has the right to represent his own interests in front of the tax administration directly or through the proxies. By way of derogation from Article 14(3) and (4) of this proposal, the amendment to the law that the tax act is deemed to have been delivered at the expiry of a period of 15 days from the date of submission of the tax act to the postal office, i.e. the position of the 10th member, that where the tax act is deemed to have been delivered on the 15th day following the transfer of the tax act, and within the meaning of Articles 3 and 4 of this Article. The tax administration shall publish by the fifth month for the previous month on the website of the PIB of the taxpayer to whom a tax settlement has been delivered and executed, as well as the number of tax acts whose delivery has been made. This distorts the legal certainty of the taxpayer in the sense that it fulfils the tax obligation on the maturity of the amount of tax owed by paying the same tax, in breach of the application of the provisions laid down in Article 4(3). The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which stipulates that the Tax Administration is obliged to establish all the facts that are relevant for the making of a legitimate and correct decision, paying equal attention to the facts that apply and to the damages of the taxpayer. Also, such amendments to the law have made it impossible to apply the provisions of Article 133. The law on general administrative procedure in the sense that the party has the right to defend its rights and the law of protected interests, i.e. that the taxpayer fulfils its tax obligation to pay the amount of tax due on maturity. It is also not possible to give the right to one of the parties to the proceedings, as Article 10(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is a Member of the European Union. The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration are prescribed that the tax and legal relationship constitutes, on the one hand, a public law relationship covering the rights and obligations in the tax procedure of the tax administration, and, on the other hand, a natural or legal person to determine, inter alia, the obligation to pay taxes and the parallel taxes, which is made possible by the provision of Article 36 paragraph 13 of the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Accordingly, the law must precisely regulate the way in which tax acts are delivered, as well as interpretations when an act is deemed to be delivered to the taxpayer, rather than giving the tax administration the right to determine its own way of delivering tax acts on which the other party in a tax-law relationship is physically, or legal person, cannot have any effect. By disabling the tax administration’s right to avoid unnecessary evidence and delaying the administrative procedure in terms of proving the maturity of the taxpayer’s tax liability and, accordingly, the obligation of the taxpayer to ask it within a legally prescribed period of time. This, Mr. Minister, is very important because we have a lot of poor municipalities and a lot of poor places where there is no mail. Then we have an example, like we had emergency situations, floods. We have an example that the taxpayer is on a business trip, on sick leave, abroad, so he can't take the IRS, and his deadlines are running. That is why we have submitted this amendment and I hope that the government will accept it. The proposed amendments in Article 20, amending Article 68(3), are not applicable in practice because the tax administration's rules on the systematization of jobs are not systematised transactions of the tax office, so there is so-called ‘tax office’. the tax cashier, i.e. there is no possibility of paying taxes in accordance with the provisions of Article 68(3). The Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which points to the conclusion that the proposed amendments to this provision of the law must also be amended by the rules on the systematization of posts in the Tax Administration, which requires the systematicisation of the affairs and tasks of the Tax Office. In addition, it is necessary to amend Article 51. The law on income tax of citizens, which is prescribed that the entrepreneur is obliged, independently of the way in which it is taxed, to make all payments through the current bank account and to manage the funds in that account, including the payment of the cash received, and in accordance with the law governing payment. Payment law regulates payment services, as well as the rights and obligations of banks and clients. Article 3 of that Law provides that legal and natural persons, who carry out their duties, are obliged to open a current bank account for payments in dinars, to manage funds in that account and to make payments through that account, and in accordance with this law. When we talk about job systematization, not just in the tax administration, we have a problem, because we have a law prohibiting young people from hiring by the end of 2015. Then they'd be free to bring out job systems when we can't hire these people. My advice from experience is that tax administrations hire young experts, because we know that in a lot of municipalities, we have a lot of tax administrations on these jobs a lot of tax workers who have years of employment and need to involve young people who will learn the trade. A trade, such as a tax inspector or a controller, is also a teaching trade, whether it has a college degree or not. Please do not apply the law prohibiting employment here until the end of 2015 and employ young, educated people to learn the trade. I would like to point out once again that our parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3770	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3771	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens, we need to know that since when there are countries, there is also a need to fund them. Not everyone can make their way, not everyone can provide for themselves, not everyone can heal themselves, not everyone can educate himself, and hence, for the purpose of maintaining the state and common needs, each relatively separates its economic strength from certain means. At least that's how it should be, that each singles out proportionately with its economic strength certain resources for common needs. That's how taxes came to be. They are classified in several groups, but the state should relatively collect these taxes to organise its administration of public service, including those that prescribe and control payment, but also consumption. Public service employees get paid for this public job. The state should spend as much as it collects, but it's not like that. The state we found employed in public services over 750 thousand people. This is far more than the necessary number, and she spent as much as she wanted, or spent far more than she collected. The civil servants themselves have seen their position, their public powers as a safe house from which they go on a hike and hunt for blue envelopes for themselves, for their parties. In addition to the state tax, they often collect their own personal tax which many of us call bribes. You choose and you hire to be servants of the people, and they make servants of the people and become their masters. The public sector lived as it pleases by 2012, and the real and private lived as it should. When she couldn't collect how much she was spending, the state began to be in debt. The economy was working on a little bit, and we were in charge of a lot. It was no longer lived from the earned and collected, but from the in charge. When the state is in debt, the people write a note, and we don't have a country that we can finance as citizens, and there's a time when we have to finance the state, and the debts that came from funding when it didn't come from the earned, and those debts should be paid back. In the country where the imagination of illusion was produced, pre-election promises were the main almost exclusive product of the state. The illusions have become our reality, we don't produce anything in three shifts. We've been broadcasting social rights until 2012. There's no one to pay. This requires an increase in taxes and tax discipline and that of the rest of our economy, and the rest of our economy cannot bear it. In essence, the people, consumers and the poor are the main taxpayers. When they come to the register and pay the citizens' bill, they actually pay all the taxes, when the rich whales pay by how much taxes they all need to know that the tax, VAT, profit tax, is all included in the price of the product, so, by buying the goods, they actually pay most of the income. I've supported several of these laws on taxes, excises and contributions, and I will, of course, support this one. When Dinkic increased excise duties on cigarettes, I warned him not to raise excise duties on poor cigarettes. He didn't listen. The number of cigarettes in the sale fell from a billion to 200 million boxes to 800 million boxes, so we pushed it into the gray streams. It would've been good if the people had started eating less cigarettes, if we'd reduced the consumption of cigarettes, but we didn't, we just pushed 400 million boxes into the gray market, into the market, into cut tobacco. I don't like any of the solutions in this law, even though I'm going to vote for it. I don't like the refund of interest payments, so the principal is because for me, it seems to be a feature of some kind of green billing. Also, I'm not clear on mail delivery within 15 days. If you are in a hospital or on vacation for 30 days, it is enough for the IRS to send an envelope to the IRS, it is considered legal within 15 days even though you have not been home and not received, and the IRS is almost every citizen and then you have to chase down certain websites and see if anything has arrived in the meantime, and you have to have a computer to do so and to look in electronic form. I also don't understand the delivery on the legal person. If it is not available that the tax act can be delivered to an employee, you can imagine if someone has 1,000 employees, a tax inspector comes in and out instead of the owner or person he represents, hand it over to a strugar, to a worker by law, as proposed, a cleaning woman, and if the tax act can be considered to be fully delivered and later binding, legal, and that the person who was a taxpayer is not properly informed about it. To be clear, many of these employees can deliberately or accidentally put away that kind of delivery. I think that something needs to be corrected and I appreciate the efforts to settle tax payments, to tax everyone in the gray economy, but I wonder if this law goes with the existing tax service with existing tax inspectors, because we who live in the interior know very well what kind of inspectors we meet and how they can be. In this regard, we have authorised them to have the right to control taxpayers who are not registered, or who are not registered with the Agency for Economic Registers. I didn't come across a case of gray economy control that tax inspectors burn in the field, catch as many taxpayers from the gray economy as possible, and often they themselves are contained in that part of the gray business. There are also some criminal provisions, especially bad for small firms where you have fines of 400-500 thousand dinars for entrepreneurs and for all legal entities. You have far greater penalties, and that of 400-500 thousand dinars can be so draconian that some small company stops working. With that, I would like to see this sort of step up in traffic in some future period because there are 500,000 for some small companies that are fighting on the market and that are just getting too much money. I think the taxpayer should be taxed with attention, nursed, and not initially for a possible offense to be destroyed immediately. Mr Dinkic, when he was Minister of Finance, I advised myself, and I would advise you that a good minister is the minister who rips off as many feathers from the goose as possible with as little snooze as possible. It is about a rule respected by old tax inspectors in some happier times when this country lived on tax revenues and spent as much as it could collect. Our peasants tend to say that sheep can be cut more than once, but only skin once. So, the trait of a good shepherd is that he knows how to guard and cut his sheep, and he doesn't need to peel them. The situation found in the country in 2012 is catastrophic, especially in the case of these allegedly large taxpayers whose tax is usually passed on to an orphanage that pays all the previous taxes used as deductions and even profit tax is included in the price of each product. I think we should finally do a good law by which we would compare the property of these largest tycoons, as the people say, those biggest entrepreneurs, who I think are no chance of developing. We need to make some agricultural processing industry, energy based on as many entrepreneurs, small legal entities as possible, along with large systems that they would serve, to make enough goods through the agriculture of energy and processing industries, and from that social product service our obligations to the state, to support it from the collected funds, not to live off the in charge and to have enough money to try to serve those debts and what we have left since 2012. So that we can also support citizens' existence and service our obligations, because I think it's the last moment. I think that a law should be made for the rich who have taken almost everything by gravitating and privatizing in the maesteral transition, and left the people with nothing, that their property should be compared to the taxed incomes, because it is unacceptable for such a rich and fertile country to live poor and hungry people. We could easily take care of the poor, we could easily feed the hungry, but I'm afraid we can't feed the rich and the loose, because they're never enough. With that, I'd like to make a law that will sanction their wealth that cannot justify taxed incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3772	The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3773	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, it is clear that the state has decided by these amendments to the law to increase the rate of tax collection, to reduce the grey economy, to ensure that those irresponsible who avoid tax obligations adequately sanction and introduce tax collection systems. They will unify, unite and sharpen policy violations in the scope of tax regulations, bring this law into line with the Law on Infringements. It will informically modernise the services to taxpayers and the work of the Tax Administration. It will discourage those who try to avoid tax obligations and, as you say, will contribute to the faster implementation of the tax procedure and the more efficient work of the Tax Administration. The impression is that the accent has been placed on taxpayers, on their urgency, on sanctions unless they respect regulations and so on. I wonder where in these amendments and additions to this law is a common citizen, the same citizen who expects you to find in these amendments of the law and the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens shown recently in the annual report? This was a great opportunity to correct obvious failures. I will remind you of the most significant recommendations and legislative initiatives of the Citizens' Protectors that have not been followed and concerning these very topics. It is necessary that the Tax Administration, I quote the Citizens' Protector, is not paid in a timely manner, even when the tax debt is insignificantly directed to citizens to pay taxes to prevent the flow of time from leading to a significant increase in interest, especially for reasons why citizens wrongly believe that some of the earlier tax payments have been fully reconciled, end of quote. This suggestion could have been found in these amendments to the law, only that the legislator had read the Citizens' Protector's report and paid attention to those elements. Since this suggestion is not part of the proposed amendments to this law, MP Boris Tadic, NDS, ZZ and Green Serbia have made an amendment to Article 22 and Article 71, all in order to make this recommendation an integral part of the bill. Furthermore, in its report, the Citizen's Protector says – the Tax Administration did not accept the recommendation of the Citizens' Protectors to determine how many cases in which taxpayers and secondary taxpayers and in which amount more taxes were charged on interest and subsequent taxes than those owed after the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision, after which the amount of the difference would be returned to the citizen on a personal request. According to the Citizens' Protector, among other things, it is said that, as a result of not accepting the recommendation, taxpayers from the second half of 2012 continue to be treated worse than the debtors of the business banks or are obliged to pay more than the private trustee on behalf of the RS interest. On the non-implementation of the Recommendation of the Citizens' Protector, the Citizens' Protector informed the National Assembly, the Government and the public after which the Tax Administration issued a statement disinforming the public that it had ceased to apply the comfortable method on 1 January 2011, although it applied it until 1 January 2013. As a result, the Citizens' Protector asked the Ministry of Finance to sanction those responsible for bold public deception, and in direct communication it was agreed that the Ministry of Finance should consider amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in order to enable damaged citizens to recover the overpaid amount on a personal request. By the end of the reporting period, the Citizens' Protector has not been informed of the ministry's measures taken to comply with the recommendation, the end of the quote. Unfortunately, this subject is also not part of these amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. Despite an agreement with the Citizens' Protector that the possibility of amending the law will be considered. Our parliamentary group has also tried, by its amendment to Article 21, that is, to Article 70, to correct or at least mitigate the apparent injustice done to citizens. I think you should give equal importance and charge the state register and citizens on the other hand, that is, their problems brought out by the Citizens' Protector. You've had a chance to show these changes that you're thinking the same thing about filling the state register, as well as about the ordinary citizen. Unfortunately, that's not what you showed us this time. Further recommendations related to the work of the regional departments of the Tax Administration that exceeds the legal deadline for deciding on complaints on branch solutions, the exposure of the tax departments of local self-government units. Excessing the time limit of justice is a major inflow of the case and an insufficient number of employees. The complaints concern the work of the Tax Administration due to the inability to sanction employers to make timely payments for compulsory social security contributions. In order to gain the pension right, the needy citizens are forced to be in debt instead of the employer to pay their contributions and begin to exercise their right to pension. In the Tax Administration, it is selectively handled by applications, and deprives citizens of the right to an effective remedy and puts them in a hopeless situation. Another member of this bill has caused public disdain. This is Article 20, which was amended on 29 May 2013, whose amendment was for the first time prescribed that the provisions of limitations, the right to determine, collect and refund taxes should apply to contributions to compulsory social security. In this way, the employer will be permanently amnested from the payment of contributions to funds set up as mandatory, while employees will lose the opportunity for the part of the working century to be recognised by the rights they have acquired through their work. The amendments to the law were passed on 29 May 2013. What do you say? So much for taking care of an ordinary citizen. According to the Citizens' Protector, the situation in the area of forced collection of compulsory social security contributions leads to the conclusion that the exercise of the right is increasingly difficult and more uncertain in which citizens are struggling not only with the haughtiness and will of employers, inefficient authorities in charge of control, but also with obstacles set by the legislator on that path, setting out to favour other interests as being too difficult. In addition to the constitutional provision of the Republic of Serbia as a state based on social justice, it appears that the legislator is underhandled by the declared constitutional principles and fails to resolve a significant social problem in a systematic, principled and just manner, the end of the quote. I agree with the Protector of Citizens and I ask you - where are citizens in this law, ordinary citizens? They're used to any new law in this area making it difficult for them to live, the right pension, the right return of taxes from a state that obviously has no intention of doing so. The second problem, in my opinion, is the IRS. In the internal opinion of the Tax Administration, the tax collector since September 2013, citizens have been in talks with the former V.D. To the director of the Tax Administration, Ivan Simič gave an assessment of the work of the Tax Administration. Among other things, it is said that there is a problem due to the poor and inadequate relationship of people, as he said, in the first line with tax bonds, incorrection in treatment, unkindness, inadequacy to understand the problem and bureaucratic manners, poor professional treatment of tax inspectors who did not know or did not want to understand and respect the specificity of taxpayers, but were already doing patterns and cruelly for various reasons, poor work of branches and escape from the responsibility of branch directors and constant pressure on the central to resolve issues. Such manners must change and the directors must organise the business properly, said former V.D. Director of the Tax Administration. It's actually the opinion of citizens on the work of the tax administration. At the very beginning of your presentation, you said that it was not only in the existing law but in its application. I ask you, was it necessary to pass a new law and how confident are you that this new law will have a far more effective application? Does the tax administration have the material and personnel potential to implement this law? Could the IRS be a brakesman in the implementation of this law? How will the tax administration be motivated to increase tax collection or to increase the number of taxpayers? In the end, why didn't the IRS make any recommendations from the Citizens' Protectors? Why didn't your ministry adequately respond to the recommendations of the citizens' protectors? Parliament group Boris Tadic NDS – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia has submitted a dozen amendments to which we have installed some suggestions from the Citizens' Protectors in two amendments. I hope that you will carefully consider them and adopt them and thus show equal treatment according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3774	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3775	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has proposed to amend the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration to experience 11 changes, though the most common. What I would like to observe, secondly, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is good that it is specifically discussed, and that is why I want to speak, to point out the great importance of this law. Why would I mention that? Somehow, until now, the changes to the law have always been an integral part of a set of financial laws, and since people have seen it as process-technical issues, there has been little attention to this law. This law has great meaning. I'll just list a few things. Before I say it, my esteemed colleague, Susana Spasojevic, expressed the view of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to this law, went very closely through it and I will not stick to those details, I just want to confirm once again that the SPS will give strong support to this law. What do I want to point out as an important message to the citizens? This is one of the laws that, unlike many lately, does not deal with reducing consumption, saving, somehow this saving theme, reducing consumption, everyone deals with analysts, politicians, and I don't know who else. Of course, she is necessary, especially where costs are such that they can be avoided. This is a law whose application should increase revenue and it is good that the government, I am there to support, tackle and issues on how to increase revenue at the cost reduction I was talking about. Secondly, what I want to point out is that yesterday you started your own exposure with a sentence – this is the first step towards reforming the tax systems. I point out, you mentioned yesterday, and I want to support it, the first aggressive step in curbing the gray economy. Of course, this law does not deal with taxes, it is not the one that creates conditions for investment, business, etc. It may in one part influence by providing legal certainty, simpler procedures, etc. What does this law aim to do? This law aims to establish in a concrete and clear way clear procedures, that those that will allow the taxes already provided to be paid and, of course, to combat those who do not. Why is this important? I think it's important that in Serbia there is a very high degree of gray economy. They're talking about a 30% number. Do you know what it would mean if, at some appropriate time, that percentage decreased to 20%. That would be a huge success, but also a huge income to the state. When it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to this law, I will be short-term only for three segments. The first refers to the unification, unification and tightening of the breaking policy. He's going through the entire text of the law and this question, of course people are interested in a lot of details about the law, but he can't go unnoticed. Why? Because it's a very important question. So far, we've been wandering a little bit about that part. For a time, the tax administration was charging for violations, and then a misdemeanor court, so different regulations were applied, etc. The biggest thing about this is that it's all united in one place and it's a change that increases legal certainty in people. Of course, when it comes to this, I would also like to highlight the tightening of the criminal policy, or the tightening of the criminal provisions. This is where I want to make a clear view of the SPS, given that the criminal policy, i.e. the range of penalties that are adjusted to the severity of violations and the type of taxpayers, has been taken into account, that criminal policy must be tightened and we are giving full support to it. Why? Because criminal policy must be an adequate sanction for one who violates the law. Given the fact that the law wants to deter him from breaking the law, and I'm asking you, I specifically warn that sentence, the whole of the law is being brought to the point of deterrence from breaking the rules. When it comes to criminal policy, it must be considered and that social damage is as high as it is when taxes are not paid, when taxpayers avoid it, how harmful it is for the state, for the achievement of its functions, health care, education, police, judiciary, etc., so all those actions that will be necessary for those who do not pay the tax. Not to mention the government's obligation to ensure equal operating conditions, because they're not equal operating conditions when someone pays taxes and doesn't pay. It's unfair competition, then. Not to mention the obligation that the law must be the same for everyone, that there are no privileges. For these reasons, criminal policy must be very rigorous and must be tightened. I want to point out another detail, that we have no problem when it comes to the height of the sentence. Why? I want to remind everyone that those who pay taxes neatly don't pay any fines, there's no punishment for them, and it doesn't matter how much punishment matters to them. Penalties are for those who don't enforce regulations. They should be punished even more so that we can ensure equality among all in Serbia. I want to point out a very important question that has gone a little undetected, which is a question of getting through this law obligations for all entities who are in any way involved in the tax procedure, which any business should be done, by the state authorities, by organisations, by banks, etc., etc. I want to say hello to such an idea. Simply put, it must be kept in mind, especially when it comes to the rules of electronic data exchange, that, unfortunately, the tax administration does not know cross-borderly many data that a modern tax administration should know. That's gonna mean a lot in deterrence for breaking the rules. In order not to go unnoticed, I want to point out one example, I think it's Article 9, which is important, which is that someone who's the founder of the company won't be able to get a PIB, or a business register to delete it, until he solves all tax obligations issues. That's a very important question. In Serbia, we have witnessed that there are a lot of those who put out one company, leave the debts, set up another, continue to operate, leave the debts again, open the third one, and then 15th, etc., and the whole system is based on swindling and I think this provision should prevent it and I welcome that provision. What I also want to point out is further informative modernisation of services and tax bonds and the work of the tax administration. I think there have been a lot of words about this, but I would like to point out that this will mean a lot that by reducing these administrative jobs, the capacity of the tax administration to control the collection of income. You mentioned a number of as many as 400 people who can be freed, who will be in control, etc. That's something to support. I don't think it's possible without saying a few words about the tax administration. It, as it is, and it is very important for an institution because it needs to collect revenues for the state, it deserves one very significant status, a solution, material and human and organisational, so that it can carry out all of this, so that it can respond to all these tasks. There was also talk here about modernising the tax administration, which absolutely deserves support. But who had contact with the tax administration knows well how much bureaucracy, difficulty, etc. I wouldn't run away from it, not thinking anything ugly, to pay a lot of attention and educate these people in terms of taxpayers. What can be said in one sentence - they must be kind to each one, provide help in this, and rigorous, sharp, in sanctioning those who break the law. I think that's one message for the IRS. And in the end, who will have power over this law if it is consistently applied? Those who respect the law will have scales because it will reduce costs, because it will increase labour efficiency, legal certainty. And those who break tax regulations will increase the likelihood of his discovery. And the likelihood of breaking the rules is very important for preventing violations of the rules and criminal sanctions. What I also said is there is a high degree of tolerance for the gray economy, both when it comes to citizens' awareness and when it comes to control. We almost caressed her. I think we need to bring a situation where whoever thinks he's going to go into the gray zone, counting on him to make a profit and there's very little chance of being discovered, of course, that he'll be encouraged to go there, a high degree of opportunity to be undiscovered. But what should be the message of this law, and that a consistent criminal policy will be applied, will certainly give up going to the gray zone in that sense. For all these reasons, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to this law in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3776	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3777	Dear Parliament Speakers, Mr Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, these amendments to the Tax Procedure and Administration Act bring two basic and key things – the obligation of electronic tax returns, which I think is good, and, on the other hand, a drastic increase in penalties for those who violate in some part of the law. When we talk about electronic tax returns, we heard from Mr. Minister a very often repeated thing and the the the thesis that nothing in the previous period was good, that the obligation started, and that's true, since March of this year -- the obligation of tax returns. I think it is very important to say because of both you colleagues and the public, that the first tax e-mail application was filed in 2010, which means that technical and technological conditions and complete infrastructure for full-time electronic registration were carried out in 2010, in the then so many criticised Governments and with the Director of the Tax Administration who then provided a higher percentage of tax collection than it is today. I think it's important to say and I think you have the right to say when something is well done. This was a prerequisite for infrastructure and for the realisation of these jobs and the transfer of opportunities to taxpayers for easier, simpler and more efficient tax returns in an electronic way. It's one of the important things. The second thing I mentioned was a drastic increase in fines. It doesn't just talk about this big change that's going to jeopardize, I'm sure, and many well-intentioned, and those who make mistakes in their business who can suffer large sentences, fines from 100,000 to 200,000, from one million to two million, on average from 30% to 100% increase in fines. I think he's talking about more stuff, and I'm just gonna say some things. It's that announced zero tolerance for mistakes, but always for others' mistakes, never for their own. I think that just passing this law, because we know that this is the third, fourth, or who knows which tax reform we remember, here, only this law has changed twice in 2013, and the third change is some kind of recognition that we haven't been or haven't been effective enough in making changes to the law in 2013, so maybe it's commendable that you indirectly admitted that you were wrong in changing and passing that law, which has brought the effects that we can only measure through the state of our public finances. I think that we need to talk about this, and it would be best if the Minister himself, the Government and the Prime Minister were self-critical enough to talk about it themselves and to get to know us as parliamentarians about the state of finance and the current percentage and incomes from tax returns, because it's obvious that this gap in the budget, and he announced the Fiscal Council of 8.7% of the budget deficit, speaks of the reduced tax revenues, regardless of all the moves that have been made with a likely good intention, but apparently not sufficiently balanced, which have brought this state. I'm about to say and remind you, what is directly related to the adoption of these amendments to the Tax Procedure and Administration Act. So we remember increasing VAT from 18%, so this higher VAT rate from 18% to 20% with expected higher tax revenues, and what did we have as effects? The reduced purchasing power of the population and the decline in income, apparently in the budget. Then, profit tax from 10% to 15%. What are the effects of that? I think it's very important that when we talk about the new bill now, we determine the criteria under which we will monitor the success of this legislative project. It is your responsibility, Mr. Minister, and we who sit in this assembly. I think that's how we can talk about the quality of the legal solutions we're making here. We've brought some other legal solutions to the government's proposal. It's a capital tax, which also rose from 10% to 15%. Then, the famous solidarity tax against whom DS clearly expressed its position. So it really doesn't make sense to me today, that someone who receives 61 thousand salaries, pays that 20% tax for 61 thousand, and that if, as the owner of a company, earns a profit of 1 million or 2 million euros, it pays 15% of the profit tax on those two million euros. This is difficult to explain, but on the other hand, the question is crucial – what are the effects of making so-called. The solidarity tax? Because in order to be solidarity, everyone who had succumbed to that tax should simply agree and volunteer to give that solidarity tax. So it's not solidarity, it's forced. That's exactly what I'm talking about from that aspect of how to measure the quality of the legal proposals that are being made here in our Assembly. A little further on raising and drastically increasing the fines. I am convinced that this will primarily affect small and medium-sized enterprises, those at least, and crafts actions, because I can follow right through the public and what we have all seen, of course in the public, that the biggest taxpayers really lack nothing, even they are very respected and participate in joint meetings with the prime minister and finance minister in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, where their voices and how well they are heard in the proposals of the measure and how this current economic status in Serbia will be addressed and the state of public finances in Serbia. That's what you're aware of. I think it's very important that by making these decisions, we consider what these measures are all about. I think it's important what we offer and what the government offers as a stimulant to all these businessmen who are very difficult to function in these conditions anyway. So, evidence of the effects of many of the laws that I have mentioned today is exactly the state of finance that needs to be mentioned. In these two years, public debt has increased by six billion to slightly less than 15 to 21. Public debt participation in GDP and according to the fiscal council's announcements, now with about 65% say it goes by the end of the year, to about 70%. Budget deficit 8.75, and with the expectation of the response that this poor previous government is guilty, I agree, both the previous and the reconstructed and the one before it, and mostly the 2008 government is referring to. - In 2012, we'll hear that for sure. But, with the criticisms we've heard here about the poor and insufficiently efficient work of the tax administration in the past, we must also remind ourselves that, just before the government, your government, Mr. Minister, has brought in the director of the foreign director of the tax administration. So, we had a manager who's been pompously announced and who's going to solve these tax administration problems and who's going to fix that system, and now you're criticizing the previous ones. Of course, he was either removed or resigned, I don't know what the reason was, but it also says that often here in Serbia, often the Government has more trust in those people on the side, in foreign advisors, in foreign managers, and after their departure and the effects of their work, here we hear the same criticism about them. So, my proposal and my desire for every legal project to have a cross-section where we know what the current situation is and what the percentage of tax collection is at this point and what the effects of this law will be, because I have no doubt that most will adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3778	Thank you. The word is Alexander Marinkovic. My apologies to the MP, the word first comes from Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3779	Thank you. I'm going to answer these few things that the previous six speakers have said. I have to admit, I'm not quite sure what was the whole point of this last presentation, but if it applies in that domain which are the effects of the law and the changes in the law, these last ones, since last year, and this year what we expect. I think from a law like the CAP, if it's a procedural law, the Law on the Administration of Procedure, it's pretty defined in the law itself, if not in the arguments. We didn't admit any mistakes, we ended up, which doesn't mean they wouldn't have been admitted to being there, but at the end of last year when we changed the ZPP the last time we made changes about when they were going to start an electronic application from March 1st. She did, and it's one of the effects, I'd say that law. As far as profit tax is concerned, you asked what effect it was, I was very clear when we changed the Tax on Profits Act that the effect in 2014 was gone, because it was the elimination of tax reliefs that took place in 15 and 16 years and the expected results would be in those two years, about 0.3 or 0.4 percent of GDP, if I'm not wrong. The success of this law will be measured, I'm simply going through the items as I have written them, the success of this law will be measured by whether or not we'll be able to implement these standards that have been amended. It's on the one hand, and I think we all agree, the introduction of electronic business, and on the other hand, as I mentioned, and that applies to a few of the other criticisms that you've put out, in this last part, goes parallel to the tax administration reform. The legal framework is the one thing that allows, but the one who implements, is actually the tax administration. My government did not appoint the previous Minister of Tax Administration, he was set up before the government was reconstructed and you know it well. You know that this government has appointed a new director of the Tax Administration and with him, which has not been the case before, and also the manager, which we consider to be the essential thing. As you know, it is not pompously announced, nor has it been done for political, marketing reasons, but to professionalise the Tax Administration, which is something we tend to do in the entire Ministry of Finance and in the state administration in general. In these few other comments, therefore, the success of this law is not only measured by what is in the provisions of this law, but by whether we will manage to reform the tax administration in an adequate way, which has simply not been done so far, and it will take another three to four years, and probably also this government and the next to do so in an adequate way, simply taking into account the state of the tax administration. I don't think that's something that we should be having political disputes on any basis because the tax administration by definition has to be excluded as a service, as well as many others from political influences, which simply so far, to this government and this previous reconstructed, I wouldn't say it was the case. As far as these other laws you mentioned are concerned, there is simply one contradiction that I cannot understand, which very often occurs. On the one hand, you say we have a high deficit and we're in debt. We're in debt because we have a high deficit. We have a high deficit because our budget costs are high compared to budget revenues, and it's mostly the problem with all the parallel parameters in height, the size of the state administration, the number of employees, the amount of wages and pensions. By all these grounds, you've taken measures for the mandates of these and the previous, these reconstructed governments, so since we measure the number of employees in the public administration, the number of employees has been reduced for the first time, I say, for the first time, that we have recorded the data. We have taken measures on salaries and we have taken measures to reduce net earnings and we have taken measures, i.e. we are taking measures concerning reform of the pension system so that we can ensure that it is sustainable. So we deal with these problems. I don't understand how you can say that you're unhappy with the deficit or that you're unhappy that we're in debt, and that you don't want to at the same time, or that you're not in favour of the measures relating to the reduction of that, no matter how politically unpopular, basic sources, or the causes of that deficit. After all, you asked about the effect of a solidarity tax. The effect is estimated at about 10.5, 11 billion dinars per year, which is somewhere with what we planned and is not insignificant although it is small compared to the total deficit. I didn't quite understand the comparison with the profit tax paid at 15%. Therefore, the net profit reduction was made in the public sector and has nothing to do with entrepreneurs, i.e. those who have their own companies. We want and we do all of this just to ensure the environment that the private sector can work, employ people and reduce the burden the state is carrying on the private sector. When I say that, I don't mean, at this point, to reduce tax burdens, but I mean reducing administrative burdens and discretionary decisions, which we also change by law on the tax procedure and tax administration, by introducing electronic applications and facilitating controls, on the one hand, and by introducing some less rigid provisions, on the other hand, about tax submissions. Finally, as far as penalties are concerned, it has also been mentioned several times, the fines will not hit those small and medium-sized enterprises, penalties will hit those who do not pay taxes and penalties serve it and should serve it. Taxes are not a volunteer category, economic stimulation should not be done through taxes, there should be no social giving, there should be no over-income, over-the-counter, according to opportunities and simply, the whole discussion about the need to stimulate someone who respects the law is wrong. As for some other comments, it was, I want to be clear about this one member, related to the delivery of tax acts. That member existed in the law and also said that 15 days after the letter was sent, what was delivered in the mail, unless delivered in person, was considered to be delivered. We have now just defined some other provisions regarding this, and in line with the introduction of electronic business into the tax administration. We will consider whether it makes sense to extend that deadline, because I know that there have been a few constructive amendments to this subject, we will consider and see if it makes sense, given the reality of the field, as it is said. Let's not kid ourselves, if you go on vacation, that doesn't mean you don't pay taxes. If you're sick, it doesn't mean you don't pay taxes either. That's what sick people are for. So, the tax is mandatory, the first obligation, and that's why we introduced that, out of simple fairness to those who pay taxes, first they pay fines, then interest, and then the principal, and not again from the tax, on the income side, we do, we deal with some social policy, or we solve the issue of indifference, which is an important question, but we have to solve it in a different way with instruments that address it directly, and not blame the system, because we have a problem that we didn't understand or we couldn't, or we couldn't, all of which is to deal with. There were a few suggestions from the Guardians of Citizens, which certain MPs passed on. We've taken into account what the Guardian of Citizens said and we've had meetings and we've said we're going to consider, we've considered some things. There are instruments and mechanisms that citizens, who think are damaged, can turn around and ask that this damage, if it is found to be done, compensates, that the system is now adapting to any damage that has occurred in recent x years, because it may simply be fair, but somewhere you have to cut, because we have introduced a lot of mechanisms for partially political reasons, as I said, because of the inability and because of the intricaccessibility, or whatever, and the injustice of some of them hurts, but you can't correct any injustice that has happened, because that means you won't deal with the future. I do not argue that if it was created somewhere, very clearly I say, there is no legal basis, or decision of the Constitutional Court which obliges the tax administration, related to the comfort of calculating interest, for which I do not think it was good, which has been abolished for the citizens, there is something else, and that something has been implemented. There are mechanisms that citizens can turn to and that we're installing it into a system, we're recalculating, it's not something we could have talked about at the moment, but we have considered it and we recognize it. Is the law enough? It's not enough, we have good laws in most domains, but application doesn't work properly, and that's why we're talking parallelly about three pillars of tax administration reform, which you could hear about from the new director, and I'd be happy to explain it too, if necessary, and all because of what we need to modernise the tax administration. We said, "It's not our tax administration, it's the tax administration of all of us, regardless of who's the director and who's the party in power and everything else, because it's being financed, and then the parties need to debate, and depending on who they represent, what the tax system is going to be, and who's going to benefit the most from that tax system, in terms of who we want to protect and who we want to speed up. The tax administration is there to enforce, not punish political non-insects, not stimulate tax-free, but enforce the law. This law is not tax law in terms of defining the tax system, because we want to address it and that, that's what we said. This law defines procedures for the application of laws that define the tax system, i.e. the functioning of tax administrations as such. In that sense, it is the first step. Of course he's got a lot of problems. We have introduced a united charge, and now there is a problem, that those who are in protective custody, because they are in restructuring, and I remind you, that is, the social issue and responsibility of all of us, that companies in restructuring will pay for something without paying for something else that the law requires them to pay for, and now we have introduced an electronic system, so they cannot be discreetly allowed not to pay. We have a lot of things where we've made exceptions, because that's how it was socially easier, maybe in some domains and socially responsible or more responsible, but I can't think about the future and say that because of those exceptions that we've done, if we want to solve these problems in the future, and I think we've clearly articulated it as the goal of this government, and I think it's in everyone's best interest and that everyone wants to do it, even if it wasn't the power to do it or the political will in the past or the necessity, because it doesn't need to be excluded, which is now, because I just don't think we should be building a system that's going to be distorted right now, to allow for what the past didn't work. We have to find, or make a system as it should be, to make the state function normally, because the tax administration is an integral part, if not a pillar, one of the pillars, such a system, and we're trying parallelly to solve problems and we're finding ways to fit this new system into some legacy of problems that we have in the past, which is certainly common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3780	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3781	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration on the agenda today. The Tax Procedure Act is a basic procedural law, as you said, Mr. Minister, and a kind of one, I would say lex specialis in the tax administration process, and precisely from this law and these changes will largely depend on the effectiveness of the conduct of the tax administration, thus also filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, this process defines the rights and obligations of both taxpayers and tax administrations. This law was first passed in 2002, with first application during 2003, and this is a total of 18 amendments to this law. I would like to stress that there are 18 amendments that speak sufficiently of the constant need for legislators to precisely define one substance that is in constant development. The essence of the proposed changes is contained in an adequate response to the practical needs to achieve the unification, unification and tightening of the infringement policy, as well as the need to bring this law into line with the Law on Infringements. The adoption of the proposed solution will remove the concerns on which practical situations apply the provisions of specific laws, special tax laws, and in which case the provisions of the law we are discussing today. The range of penalties established for which practice has shown that they are not adequate, which means that these amounts were not at the level that potential offenders deter from breaking the rules laid down by law, and the law, of course, proves its quality and that it has a preventive effect on the occurrence of damage to the state and society. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these changes will unequivocally introduce this quality, in accordance with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, which is a zero tolerance for all taxpayers and any non-compliance with the legal rules and obligations, these amendments to the Tax Procedure Act have also been made. For example, let us look at Article 9 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure, which amends Article 26 of the Law so far. In fact, from now on, there will be no tolerated amount of debt to the taxpayers assigned to the FIB. It's a tax identification number, and it allows for performance through a new economic operator. I'd like to look back on some more concrete proposed solutions, such as. It is proposed to regulate certain practices of certain national authorities, e.g. The Agency for Business Registers could not carry out the erasure of an economic operator where the tax administration started control until such time as that control would not have ended. So if such a proposal were to be adopted, it would make it impossible for many abuses of economic operators to avoid their tax obligations. Furthermore, the issue of delivering a tax act to the taxpayer is proposed in a new way. It is proposed to make clear how everything can be delivered, to which the tax act can be handed, when the act is considered to be delivered to the taxpayer, etc. It is also an obligation for the tax administration to publish by the 5th month for the previous month on the website a taxpayer's FIB to whom delivery has been made. Therefore, delivery is one of the most complicated procedures, as after delivery of the tax act, the taxpayer is beginning to be subject to obligations. Furthermore, it is proposed to prescribe the dynamics of the introduction of mandatory submission of tax returns by electronic means. This electronic communication with the tax administration relieves the taxpayer, both in terms of costs and in terms of time spent on tax administration counters. If an error is found to have been recorded in the wrong amount of the tax liability, it is also proposed that the tax administration corrects the error. Therefore, the regulation of the procedure largely regulates and relaxes the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax administration. When it comes to electronic application, I would also point out that the proposed solution also introduces realistic deadlines for establishing the obligation to apply the tax by electronic means. Therefore, it can be said that this legal solution contributes to additional efficiency in the official procedure, because by setting an adequate policy of fines, we reduce the costs of conducting infringements, both to bonds and courts. In view of all these solutions, I call on all MPs to adopt the law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3782	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, one minute and 21 seconds. She won't use it. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3783	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will in this time which is left with the MP group just to confirm what my colleague Susana Spasojevic has already said in front of the parliamentary group, but I will talk a little more about it, it is not disputed, we support amendments and additions to the law and, as my colleagues and colleagues have already said, but in order for this law and these amendments to the laws to be applied, we need to have a credible, so to say, unautomous in any case, but a credible institution is a tax administration. Unfortunately, she's often said that on the Finance Committee, decimated, we all know that she doesn't have human resources, that, in my opinion, she's been systematically destroyed. At some point, we had a director who didn't even know where his office was, and he didn't even know why he was sitting there, and others were running the IRS. What I would warn the most about, that she should not use in the future, as she used in some earlier periods, as an instrument of political reckonings with certain companies that some do not like or possibly do, since we almost had a debate and in the reports of the Public Procurement Commission and we have passed a new Public Procurement Act, that someone who has a political impact is being dealt with with by someone who, in some way, by law and by competition, has been passed in that tender, then, in a way through the tax administration, by sending tax inspectors into the control of that company, and it is kind of eliminated because he did not want to listen to someone who signaled him that he should. There's a lot of examples, I have a little time where I can talk about what's going on in practice. What I can only say is that this is one step towards introducing order into public finances and we are going to correct all the illogicalities that have been in practice in the current tax policies. There are about eight taxing remarks, but what bothers me the most, and my colleague said that she was authorized, that she had no responsibility for the tax administration and the tax inspector. As we ask the taxpayer to have a responsibility, we must also ask the tax administration to have responsibility for some done, caused damage to the taxpayer. So, it's not right for the tax inspector to file, I don't know, we've talked about it on the Finance Committee, 100 criminal charges, and that's when nine are accepted, or when all those solutions are being refuted in administrative courts and the decisions of the administrative court are not respected, but, measuredly, at the second degree, they're re-scheduled, and all in order... I'm telling you, Minister, we need to see this little business that we have left to keep from flying to charge and what little we need as a state apparatus, and to choke and do a little bit of what it does to us. It's only in that direction that this discussion of ours, to be careful here. We need maximum sanction for those who don't pay taxes, but we have to make sure that we don't just choke this little bit, because those who do and who do business, they do, and then we go and control them. What bothers me is when a tax inspector goes to some firm to control it, he has to be effective. He can't sit there for a few months. I understand if there is a need for this, but we must let those who do what they can normally do, because those who "smull" what the Serbians would say, that the people understand me, we cannot even get to them. They're in the gray zone, so they can't even be subject to control. What is most important is that the deadlines for the adoption of tax acts are not respected, and when the taxpayer signals the tax administration that he has a deadline for the adoption of the tax act, they explain that this is irrelevant and that they are working on that solution. So we're going back to the tax administration that's decimated, in which wages are completely incomprehensible to us, very small. We're like serving a wolf a roasted chicken when the tax inspector goes to some strong firm to control it. I don't want to talk about what's going on. Much respect for those who stayed in the IRS and should be given special recognition, but many have gone to consulting firms and other firms to be tax advisers for much greater money. We need to strengthen the tax administration so we can just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3784	You've wasted your time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3785	I thank you on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3786	Thank you. The word is from the MP Natasa Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3787	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened carefully to the minister yesterday and today as he presented this law to us and I must admit that you did not convince me of the justification of one part of the provision of this amendment and the addition of the law. The Democratic Party supports all those changes that go towards improving tax collection, creating a tax better discipline, and that's something we all have to strive for. It's a characteristic of all modern states and modern societies. Creating a modern, efficient tax discipline and tax administration is a reform task. We support everything that goes towards bringing laws into line, removing all those contradictory norms that exist in different laws, and that is something that is one good part of this bill. But most of all, our belief is that these changes actually show about the state of our public finances and the state of our economy in general, because all we know is that the government's register is almost empty, that tax collection is much less than was planned and that this is the main reason that requires such drastically, after all, an increase in the penalties proposed by this law. I think it's very important that we ask ourselves why taxes are so low. It's certain that one part of our mentality is that for decades we've been developing a kind of mood that the state is inefficient, that it's hostile to the citizens, that citizens need in some way from the state to defend themselves. However, we think that the main reason for this minor income success, if I may say so, is that the government is huge and that the crisis is so deep that it is actually a hero of every small and medium-sized entrepreneur, if I may say so, who manages to survive in these conditions. In the economy, experts say, there is one main word, and that is an incentive. And you said rightly, that this is not the reason to encourage development. On the other hand, the government does not do much to create a more favourable business climate. Instead, it only adopts laws like this that need to make it even more impossible and difficult for those who work. I think my predecessor said well, those who do, of course, they do, and if you just sanction them somewhere, then you'll create one belief that it's actually not even good to work here according to the law, you shouldn't have a registered firm, it's better to work in a gray zone, it's better not to pay the workers than to work on black. It's something that, of course, is not good. My fear is that with this law some negative effects will be much greater than positive. This law, first of all, dramatically increases penalties. That was said by my predecessors many, from 50,000 to 200,000, from 300,000 to 500,000. You know, it's not true that these penalties are well-measured. I will set an example of Article 179 where it is said to increase the fine from 100,000 to 500,000 dinars -- punishable for a violation of a legal person if he does not enter his PIB when filing a tax application or another act. It is very often a technical mistake, without the intention of tax evasion or not applying etc. Most often it happens to small and medium-sized, beginners, those who may not have a good accounting staff in their company. You will punish them from 100,000 to 500,000 dinars. This creates a condition for such arbitration of the inspector when issuing a solution to determine whether someone is more responsible for not putting a PIB or is, and this is a technical error. So, this speech is in favour of the fact that neither the grounds for punishment nor the kind of punishment has been carefully measured. Secondly, I think this will create conditions contrary to what you think, Minister, that this law will contribute to the fight against the gray economy. We think he's going to drive a lot of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs out into the gray economy. These proposals create conditions for abuse. Where are your abuse areas? I will talk, first of all, about Articles 39 and 44, which provides for the possibility that, after a solution issued in field control, if the taxpayer fails to file a tax application required by him, the tax administration can do so instead of the taxpayer. We think these provisions will create a lot of problems. They're also a space for arbitration, a space for corrupt practices, and we don't think that's gonna be good. Not to mention that today's trend is in inspection control, and you, Minister, you know, of course, that the inspection must also have an advisory role. It must also advise the taxpayer how some of the problems it faces in its practice. You're talking about it and in public, yesterday you were saying that some 300 or 400 people with medium professional training will be overqualified for the affairs of tax inspectors, or field controllers. I'm very skeptical of the possibility of that being an effective solution. I'm talking again, it's about us having significant abuses and having to solve this issue during the application of this law. The efficiency of the tax administration. We, of course, support everything that goes towards that goal, but I ask you once to answer when the tax administration will start responding to citizens' complaints. The best of the citizens, how effective the tax administration is, is how many citizens who have not received an answer to the appeal for a solution to the property tax. Enorman's their number. Until the tax administration starts treating citizens this way, we will have another problem, that citizens experience the state, and also tax law as something that is deeply hostile and does not suit their interests and roles that we all need to have in this society. One more question. You were talking about agreeing to the provisions of this law with the Law of Infractions. That's probably true, we don't have a lot of objections here, but the main question is this: what to do in a situation where misdemeanor courts are burdened to this extent that the threat of obsolescence is so great that many cases can't actually be solved. There was created a space for enormous inconsistency in the application of this law. In general, in the application of the tax law consistency is the main task. That's what my colleagues were talking about. If those big, biggest businessmen are protected in any way in a misdemeanor or any other procedure, and if this law goes after the fact that some violations close the dominant hairstyle shops or automechanical shops, then our fear that this law, with these drastic penalties and the tightening of the tax procedure, is something that essentially goes towards those who are barely able to survive on this market and in this economic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3788	Thank you. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3789	Let me just answer these a few questions for a second. As far as criminal policy is concerned, we've talked here a few times. For a concrete example of what you stated, for not entering the PIB, and in the previous version of the law there were 100,000 to 300,000, it is now 100,000 to 500,000 dinars. It is, if I am not mistaken, related to that position, one of the six items and, of course, to be regulated by the internal tax administration rule and, of course, that the failure of the FIB is not considered a major offence. The increase in the range does not affect or change in any way related to the introduction of the PIB itself. The introduction of the FIB, as well as what you suggested about the fact that you would expect problems because the tax administration now has the right to file tax returns, was one of the mechanisms that people simply avoid, that taxpayers deliberately avoid submitting a valid tax return to avoid further tax evasion. It's just that we won't allow it anymore. Just a few things to make things right. What you said, property tax isn't a republican income, and therefore the tax administration, the one we're talking about, is not competent, but on the other hand, I don't want to throw the blame. It is perfectly normal that if you increase, or introduce one tax form, as in this case was related to the property tax, because another intrinsic has been abolished, it is perfectly normal that you will have a lot of complaints and reactions, because we generally complain, or think that something is unfair, sometimes unfounded, so that it can create some legal. Anyway, it doesn't apply to the subject matter of this law. Finally, you mentioned, I don't know if you've read all the provisions, but the tax offense, when it ends in court, unlike any other misdemeanor proceedings, is only going on for five years. So that's what the law says. It's been standing before and it hasn't happened. Finally, when we talk about incentives, it's not the only thing. You said it in the same sentence in a way, so I didn't quite get it. It's not the only word in economic politics, which doesn't mean it shouldn't be them. I'd say the first word is "business climate," and that's what you said. This law actually improves the business climate. It's one of those laws where I can say that I'm glad we're passing that law or amendments and additions to the law, and we know that in this situation I don't have a lot of those where I'm pleased, but out of necessity we have to take some moves. So this is where we move to electronic reporting. Here, let's say, for that P.I.B. If you enter a PIB in an electronic application now that you're filling it in for a combined charge, you can't handle it, and there's no breach. This facilitates business and reduces tax administration costs. There are several laws in the area of finance. This is one of the laws that improves the business climate. The other thing that is definitely necessary to improve the business climate is to change the way the tax administration is thought and managed, which is also parallel, which is an operational process and process that I won't promise to change tomorrow, because you said, for decades, there's been a certain way of treating taxes both on the one hand and on the other, on the part of the taxpayers and on the side of the tax administration, and it's going to take a few years to bring it into order. The increase in penalties, as I said earlier and yesterday, is not the measure of increasing income. We don't do everything completely autistic to increase income. On the contrary, criminal provisions are adjusted in such a way that it would not be worth it if you were to violate the law for those infringements that are not purely bureaucratic, administrative, but refer to deliberate tax avoidance or reduction of obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3790	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3791	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, on the basis of the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration should point out that this law should be adopted because the proposed amendments provide for a series of measures, such as increasing minimum and maximum fines for tax offences, and this law makes it clear that this government wants to curb the grey economy and introduce financial discipline. In view of the fact that the existing relevant and absolute range of penalties established mainly do not constitute an adequate sanction for breach of tax rules both from the point of view of deterrence and from the point of view of the damage caused by non-compliance with the tax rules, and the minimum amount of penalties is doubled and the highest is increased in relation to the current ones. The range of prescribed penalties is adjusted by the severity of the infringement and the type of taxpayer, so in this sense the maximum penalty is intended for the full deafening of tax regulations in the range of 30% and even up to 100% of the tax owed, with a minimum of 500,000 for the legal person, or 100,000 for entrepreneurs. What should be pointed out is that the proposed changes in the taxpayers will be controlled at least twice a month, and should in particular point out that control will take place not only on working days, but also on weekends. This law sets out to meet the taxpayer to receive, as soon as possible, all the assurances for which he submitted the requests. The proposed amendments to the provisions on general tax offences of legal persons and entrepreneurs have allowed one law, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration to regulate criminal liability for infringement of the tax rules, and thus the following – there is no doubt as to what regulation should be applied when measuring the level of punishment, the same sanctions for the same tax offence are provided and the conduct of courts in the infringement proceedings has been facilitated, because the infringement policy is united in one law. The amendments and additions to this law are improved by electronic data processing in the tax system and significantly reduced paperwork and simplified procedures, according to the respect of European and world laws. What should be pointed out in the end is that all these positive effects of the law allow, and the state will not have any additional costs for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3792	Thank you. Since Mr. Janko Veselinovic is not in the O.R., the word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3793	Your Honor, your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I must commend this law. It's far better than it's ever been before, especially in this segment of modernisation, in this IT-related information section. That's something we needed a long time ago. I don't know why it hasn't been introduced yet, but something like this is really good. I have to tell you and right away at the beginning, I'd like to have your ministry, first of all the Public Procurement Administration, and so pay attention to how else to get software in the IRS, since, frankly, I'm always there a little bit of a doubt as to how they've been getting so far. As for some other things about the punishment itself, I don't see any reason why someone here gets angry if the fines increase. I agree with you that they should act preventively, not to violate the tax regulations that exist and, of course, it shouldn't make sense for them to fill the budget. That's completely understandable. The point of punishment is to make these people pay taxes. There's no greater patriotism than paying taxes. That's how we have to think. Honestly, I'm a big fan of treating it the way it is in the U.S. You can defend yourself from committing a crime, possibly selling drugs, I don't know what, but if you don't pay taxes, there's no saving you simply, you have to go to jail and get sanctioned. We need to learn that paying taxes is something that is absolutely, absolutely our obligation. What I'd like to ask you when we're talking about reforming the IRS. You know, when you read the list of taxpayers, I understand the state-owned enterprises or the ones that are in restructuring, although I can't even realize that for some years they haven't been charged with taxes, and when you see certain companies that are on the list, these are all enterprises of certain tycoons and you see exactly that someone has been entitled to pay taxes at all, because they were obviously good for a certain political option, then some people literally have their skin peeled off their backs if they don't pay for a month't pay taxes, and someone couldn't pay for years. We had taxpayers who hadn't paid taxes in ten years. You see, that's where you'd have to, if we really wanted a radical reform of the IRS, all the chiefs of the sector to change. Absolutely from first to last, because none can be in that place because he allowed such chaos in the IRS not to pay taxes. We have an amazing example, recently I've read, say, the head of this gambling sector and exchange and foreign exchange affairs admitted that we have a black market that's 30% tied up, say, in the gambling sector. It's incomprehensible, it's impossible and there were even certain police actions. There's finally something going on about this, but you know, you have such an illegal market and so much damage to the state, and sitting in that place, it's something that's amazing to me. If we want a thorough reform of the Tax Administration and a general root to go into tax collection in the best possible way, it really is necessary that the whole of the Tax Administration is changed and I am a big supporter to give the IRS more independence than it has today, because it should really be more severe, especially to these people who haven't paid for years of tax, and who have been so privileged, obviously selectively carried out tax collection. In any case, this law is a good start, although I am in favour of passing a comprehensive tax procedure law and a tax administration that would further improve some things. I agree with Mr. Risticevic when he just said that folk proverb – you can cut the sheep several times, but once you cut it, it's over, so you shouldn't have, or understand the tax policy to skin someone. As for these things, where tax returns will improve and where this will adapt to some of our real conditions, I absolutely support it in the voting day, as well as the entire SNS, I will support this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3794	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3795	Dear citizens, fellow Members of the People, chairman, respected ministers, since there was little time left for the DS Parliament club, I wanted to say at the beginning that, after Article 30a, Article 30b, which reads, the bank is obliged to deliver to the IRS in electronic form data on executed payment orders, paid by money to foreign exchange accounts of natural persons, on payments to the taxpayer on the basis of income income income tax of citizens. With regard to the protection of personal data, the Tax Administration is obliged to act in the same way as the authority which supplied these data, or in accordance with the Law governing the protection of personal data. I'd say this isn't allowed, it's not in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. This is the reason why the DS parliamentary group will appeal to the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, although this law provides for the processing of data in Article 13 of the Authority without the consent of a person if processing is necessary in order to carry out operations under its jurisdiction under certain laws in order to achieve the financial interests of the state. This is not about processing data of one or a certain number of specific or specific faces, but about an indeterminate circle of faces, and it should not be allowed. Here is the proposer, Mr Krstic, who is obliged to explain to Serbian citizens the degree of protection of citizens' data and their documentation in the Tax Administration. According to everything we've known so far, there's been no such thing as protection for years. When information tax returns were filed, they were only thrown into the central tax administration offices. They could have been trampled on, as many as there were, and I personally had the opportunity to listen to all of this, although it was claimed that special encryption would be carried out, especially protection. Who knows who had access to such sensitive data from Serbian citizens? We have a situation here that an unlimited number of people will have access to the most sensitive data... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... literally all citizens of Serbia, and every citizen has a reason to care for his safety as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3796	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3797	Thank you for this suggestion. We have consulted the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data in the making of this law, which only says that we have worked long enough to prepare this law and in accordance with it we have come to this formulation. They did have an earlier version of the draft, they had suggestions. We have followed this suggestion and added in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data, in order to allow it to be handled in accordance with the law and that privacy is protected. Otherwise, Article 30b is introduced so that we can effectively control foreign exchange operations, and in accordance with other relevant laws, which has been the subject of debate in this Parliament several times. I'll answer these previous comments. As for the fight against the gray economy, I'm not in favor of it, and I think it's seen in the way I behave in the Ministry of Finance, and in other bodies that are part of the Ministry of Finance... I don't think the solution is to come and change overnight everything, even though some sensitive places in the state's authorities, we all know that, people came along the political line. I support that state authorities should be professional services, and politicians, or those who are placed in political places, are clearly defined. These are officials, ministers, state secretaries, etc. They need to manage a system that shouldn't change. With that in mind, I think people should be valued based on their results. I agree that the results in the previous period are not necessarily necessary in many segments of society, and in both the Tax Administration, we were satisfactory, but without intending to defend or praise anyone, I think we should bear in mind that very often, when we talk about tax collection, we have passed laws that prevent tax collection, such as the Privatisation Act, which introduces firms into restructuring, and you cannot expect these companies to be charged. On the other hand, I'm saying there's a certain segment against the gray economy. One segment requiring much more than the competent ministry itself, where co-operation is required with different other bodies dealing with, I believe that we agree, we have discussed, by curbing crime, in order to combat the grey economy. I think we're taking it, you said it yourself, it's not enough, some steps. As far as gambling is concerned, we have changed some of the provisions under this law, in order to enable it, as well as other segments of the fight against the gray economy. In that domain I think there will be results in the future, but it can't be very clear, and it is a problem, to point a finger at someone who's responsible for it, to one person. Finally, to your answer and suggestion, regarding public procurement as such, I agree and there are a lot of things that need to be improved to make the process more transparent on one side, but also more efficient in terms of ensuring certain things that we can get, to get them quickly when we need them. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance will take what is in its jurisdiction, that is, in our jurisdiction, which is the legislative framework. After the law has been in place for a while we will take into account user suggestions, which is the business of the entire state, to improve it, but I want to be clear that the Public Procurement Administration is not the body of the Ministry of Finance, but is the body under the government itself. The Ministry of Finance as such, apart from the regulatory framework, has no authority over the procurement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3798	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3799	Mr. Baptizer, I'm glad you answered my question. I agree with you on everything. But I have to say, in order for us to understand each other, the result is appreciated in life. I believe you learned that in the U.S. where you went to school. It's always worth the score. I just mentioned a gentleman from the IRS, not that I have something against a man, but that I'm dealing with, and I happen to have an eye on him, and I saw his statement. I think he's done a lot of good things, but we need to take care of the results of the people who have been in the IRS so far. Citizens have an extremely high level of mistrust because it is clear that it was obviously selective to apply to whom the tax police or to whom they will go with tax collection, and who will be able to do business for years and not pay a tax at all. For this reason, because many of them have been at certain functions for years I agree to be changed and to come to some as you say - professional people who will work in the business of tax collection, that is, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at the results, you'll agree with me that some certain reforms in that direction still have to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3800	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3801	I agree with you. That's why we want to introduce a system of clear performances that we're going to follow. I'll say two specific things. This is what I suggested earlier, that very often the reason why we had such discretion was not the decisions of the officials themselves at lower levels or even at the top of the Tax Administration, but were the instructions that came from political positions. That's something I think we've changed since the reconstruction of the previous government. The other thing I'm trying to say is, I'm not going to interfere with the tax administration. A new director of the Tax Administration has been appointed in line with what he thinks is both the result of previous work and based on what he plans for the future will decide who should be in which position and how they will measure their results in the future, and all in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3802	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3803	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, MPs, first of all, I would like to give my support to these amendments and amendments to the law. I believe this is another law to establish a strong and stable economic system in the Republic of Serbia. What's important is that this is a continuation of that law that came into force yesterday, which is the law on amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set out and really wants to contribute to the better conditions in the economic environment, businesses and business entities to encourage new employment and to finally get out of this darkness that has been inherited since 2000. Also, this law must make a clear parallel between those who are safe and pay taxes to the state of the Republic of Serbia and those who are not, because we must make a parallel between those who think they are smart and those who seem stupid. First of all, in order to consolidate our budget, we need to treat everyone equally without any concessions, any privileges. I think by changing and supplementing this law, we're going to achieve that effect. I would also like to remind that Serbia ranks those countries that make tax payments up to 65%, and what is important to stress is that payment in EU countries is at 85%. If we turn that into our country's numbers every year, it loses about 2.5 billion euros, which is about 25 billion euros at a 10-year level, that's our country's entire public debt. Some MPs are trying to transfer to this government that there will be some shortcomings. You cannot do something that has not been done and where we have lost dozens and dozens of millions of euros to a government that wants to solve these problems and is responsible. The first reason why we need to support these measures is to comply with other laws, above all I mean the CAP, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, because we will finally have a legal system and restore faith and security to all the businessmen in this country, both those who are engaged in private business and those who are in the public sector. We need to establish such a system that our public enterprises, as well as private businesses, have exactly the same conditions and be competitors on the market without favouring anyone. Also, the concept of state is based on income, and then on investment in infrastructure, school, kindergarten and all that our citizens need. I will specify the concept of a system that we seek, which is the Federal Republic of Germany, which has a tax revenue of 268 billion euros. They already have next year's projections to increase the revenue by nine billion euros, which is about 4% of the total tax collection. What do you say? It is a serious country that always goes one step at a time and wants to improve and establish a better economic system in its country. Serbia must strive for such systems. Serbia has to rock by stone every day to build a hill to get there and have a happier and better future. Also, this law discourages tax evasion and what is important I just pointed out, we will finally have four groups when we talk about surplus violations, which will not allow the arbitraryness of a court for example. in Novi Sad, there is a difference in judgment compared to Nis or some other city. They will know exactly how much they owe and what punishment they must suffer because they do not pay the tax. Penalties are uniform and adapted to the sum and size of enterprises. This is what Serbia must do in the next period with a set of all laws that will come very soon, so that by the end of the year we will really implement strong reform laws that will produce some results next year. On the other hand, I heard here yesterday and today certain criticisms of those whose newly created president of their party say that the only concept they must have is a secret government, or shadow government. I really don't know what that means since I've been living in this country since birth. I saw that there was a shadow government since 2008-2012, the government when Kissinger said yesterday, as one MP led this country and was the president of that government, I believe it was then a shadow government, but the members of that shadow government convinced you not to vote for such a law for the reasons that they in every way eskicipated the country's tax pay, first of all, that with the help of those who were in the public transparent government provided all possible privileges, then in that secret all these privileges were charged, and then to the state they gave nothing. We don't want the concept of any shadow government, secret government. We want the concept of government that is primarily open to citizens, transparent and that says the concept of tax collection in this country is necessary, and if we bring it down to the banal one, every day when you buy something in the store or in the store, if someone doesn't give you a fiscal bill, it's certainly every year for dozens of schools less, kindergartens, highways and other infrastructures that our citizens in RS need. So I ask you to start all of us first of all, from our minds and to change those habits that have led us here for the past 15 or 20 years and to finally get serious and say that we want to compare ourselves to really successful systems that we can find in examples of EU countries and forget more governments in the shadows and secret governments because it is the past of the RS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3804	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Let MP Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3805	Honorable ministers with co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the tax system and the tax administration are one of the pillars of innate democratic and mature Western European countries and the world. The Republic of Serbia, or its government, wants our country to be both organised and democratic and mature. One way to achieve and approach this path is certainly a regulated law concerning tax procedures and tax administrations. Of course it's not a job that can be solved in one day. The collapse of the economy, the foundation of this country, began since 2000. Of course, with the collapse of the foundation, i.e. with the collapse of the economic system, there has been a collapse of all other segments of society, including the collapse of the tax system. The tax administration needs to be effective, and tax collection is also effective. Taxing in organised democratic countries is a question that is not being asked. It is the duty and obligation of every citizen, every entrepreneur and everyone in the state. One of the basic reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Tax System Act and the Tax Administration is certainly to comply with the Law on Violations, the Law on Criminal Crimes, the unification of all offences, and to create legal certainty and to avoid instability which, unfortunately, has been present in this region and for some earlier decades. The introduction of electronic tax returns certainly creates an opportunity to reduce that – I like you, I don't like you, but in a unique way to edit the way in which tax applications are filed. It is also important that the stage of the submission of this electronic tax application is arranged for the need for further training of employees in tax administrations, but also for additional education of taxpayers. What I would especially like to commend, and as far as the amendments and additions to this law are concerned, is transparency and legal certainty. Legal certainty is one of the fundamental foundations of every country. This legal certainty is well-founded and put in place both in these amendments and in addition to the laws in terms of clear procedures, clear procedures, clear and concrete legal provisions. As far as transparency is concerned, I would like to commend Article 3 amending Article 7 of the existing Act, which refers to the tax administration being obliged to issue a quarterlyly every fifth of the month for the next month on its website, the FIB and an amount greater than 20 million for legal persons, i.e. an amount greater than five million for entrepreneurs, since, of course, it is in such a way that the avoidance of tax obligations and how it destroys the functioning of the state. The goal of this government is to create a stable state and that no one in this country can disrupt its functioning. This is also how incentives are given, i.e., satisfaction is given to those legal entities and entrepreneurs who settle their tax obligations neatly and in time, but are exposed to unfair competition from those legal entities and entrepreneurs who, in part or in part, do not pay taxes. Apart from amending and supplementing this law, which is certainly going towards reducing the grey economy, and reducing the grey economy is one of the priorities of economic policy, is one of the priorities of this government and the SNS will definitely support the vote, I must refer to only one aspect of the Financial Treaty between the RS and the European Investment Bank, and to improving the work of the judicial authorities, i.e. a project relating to the improvement of infrastructure facilities. It's 22 under the project. The three largest are in Belgrade. It is the reconstruction and renovation of the Court of Justice, reconstruction and renovation of the Military Technical Institute, the construction of a new wing in the Special Court building, and for the needs of the judicial system and strengthening the infrastructure in the justice system, and that it contributes to Serbia's citizens' justice. Of course, the three most significant facilities are related to Belgrade, but a total of 22 sub-projects and renovations, adaptations and arrest purposes. It will be done in other Serbian cities. There is no doubt that the SNS will support all three draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3806	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic, and let the MP Dragan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3807	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as we know, RS Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, in April 2014 at the election of the RS government, submitted the MPs to this high house of exposé on the 52nd densely typed page of paper. The exposé is the most basic and transparent and the largest exposé in Serbia's modern history, better said than Matthew Nenadovic's day in 1805. In his exhibition on page five, the RS Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, stressed in particular that Serbia's modernisation is a key issue for Serbia in the next decade, regardless of what kind of reform is being talked about, economic, health, education or any kind of reform in our society. To this end, on page 19, the prime minister listed laws to be changed for the purpose of modernising Serbia, including the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Dear ladies and gentlemen, and of course here he was found yesterday in the assembly benches in front of the MPs and the entire Serbian public. So, according to the system – saidly, done, so does the SNS. This proposal for a tax procedure and tax administration will allow for better tax collection and lead to better assumptions for creating a better economic environment, which will certainly reflect the inflow of new investments in the future. What's wrong with the existing law that created the former government of the former regime? It is not good in the existing legislation that created the former government of the former regime, which was an inequality, incommunity and an insufficient sharpness of the infringement policy in the field of tax regulations and inconsistencies of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Law on Infringements. Secondly, it is not good that the existing law of the former regime did not establish rules that would discourage the insurance of non-taxable business liquidity. Thirdly, it is not good that the existing law on the former tax procedure and the tax administration did not create a legal framework for further affirmation of the modernisation of services to tax bonds and the operation of the tax administration. What is it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that will bring this new bill of law to the new Government of the Republic of Serbia? It is good that this new law will ensure the unification, unification and respect of the infringement policy in the field of tax regulations and the harmonisation of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Law on Infringements. Secondly, it is good that this government law will create a legal framework for further informative modernisation of services to tax bonds, as well as the work of the tax administration in general. Third, it is good that this law will establish rules to ensure the resolution of one part of the problem that has arisen in the current application of the law and the harmonisation of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with other laws, primarily the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. Fourth, it's a good thing this is one system law. Fifth, it is good that this law is the first step of the government of the Republic of Serbia in reforming the tax system in the fight against the grey economy. The sixth, it is good that the application of this law will contribute to the fight against tax evasion, i.e. the fight against a low tax rate. Seven, it is good that the application of this Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act will increase the control of the tax administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of talking about this law since it was explained in detail yesterday by Mr Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, so that each of my further arguments would be excessive. Respected Serbian citizens, all in all, will receive one more modern, one more consistent, one more transparent Law on Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, whose provisions will be in line with EU regulations and our economic and financial theory and practice. This law will certainly be a small stone in the mosaic that will be one of the assumptions of Serbia's modernisation so warmly advocated, both the government of the Republic of Serbia and its prime minister, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, and the president of Serbia's state, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and SNS in general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you all, the position, and especially you, gentlemen of the opposition benches, to give your vote for this bill in the voting day, because you will at least contribute a little to the modernisation of our country in which Serbian citizens will truly be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3808	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The People's MP Dragan Nikolic has the word, and let the MP Boban Birmancevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3809	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, you have not often been in this room, but I can convey to you some of the experiences that I have gained as a MP in this second term, which is one of the reverse proportions – the better law you give or the better bill on amendments and amendments to the law given, it is a greater and stronger reaction to the opposition. The reaction we heard yesterday from the opposition's authorised representative, and today, from opposition MPs, shows that this proposal is a full hit by amending and supplementing the Tax System and Tax Administration Act, or tax procedure, and that you have exactly done what the government is aimed at, and that is to fight the gray economy, against this cancer that eats and the administration, the budget of the Republic of Serbia and does not allow us to move forward. Obviously, you've considered in detail everything that has been done in this area in the last 10 years and this time you've made a number of proposals that are very consistent. I can also say that from a personal example, since I have been paying taxes for more than 25 years and we have had various periods and great amplitudes in tax policy, in making tax solutions. We also had some happy inflation period, a happy period for us who paid taxes, which we didn't have to pay anything. At the same time, looking forward to this personal happiness and personal pleasure, we actually ate this country. We ate it because we didn't charge the budget, because we thought you could live on someone else's account and because we wanted someone else to pay for us. Of course it won't be possible anymore, and obviously this is the first step in the fight against that gray economy. Obviously, the purpose of this bill is to cut administrative costs, which makes us taxpayers, in any case, good. Also, improving the efficiency of control and billing. Why is someone mad about this? Why does it bother someone? Anyone who wants to come to my office, anyone who wants to come to any firm, should come twice a month, three times. If I'm doing the right thing, if I report taxes, if I pay taxes, there's no reason why there's fear in me. It also strengthens legal certainty, thus creating one predictability, and that is what I want to insist on with you. I want in 2015, 2016 and beyond, knowing that you will be Minister of Finance for a long time, I have one predictability of tax policy. I want to know that in 2015 I have a 50% or 100% tax increase, if you think it's necessary to fill the budget, but I want to know in this year, so I can decide if I'm going to do this job or not. In that sense, I think that this strike by a lawyer who in some way shakes the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia, is one signal not that they are lawyers against this government, I point out one fact that almost all the lawyers in Vranje's legal community in SNS, that they have all supported these SNS elections and that they fully support the Vukic government and, of course, want to pay taxes and have done so for years, but they want to be predictable this process, that they know exactly that this year they will pay the tax as much as planned in the previous year, and that for the next year, the preparation of the amount that the Ministry of Finance considers to be increased or possibly reduced. Maybe at some point you decide that we lawyers may not have to pay that kind of tax. In that sense, it is my appeal that, in conversations with lawyers, you as finance minister and Mr Selakovic as justice minister, you find a solution, agree and move, or the lawyers return to the courtroom where their job is, that the justice system works and that we have a peaceful situation where we can continue to work. I therefore welcome this law both as a taxpayer and as a lawyer and as a MP. In voting day, I'll vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3810	I thank Mr. Nikolic. The word has a National MP Boban Birmancevic, and let the National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3811	Respected citizens, the President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the government has given an extremely high quality and above all the citizens of this Serbia a responsible Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which will primarily introduce discipline and order in the process of calculating and collecting taxes, on the one hand, and more importantly, in the process of sanctioning and processing those who do not pay taxes, on the other hand. The efficiency of payment control and control of those who have not paid is exactly what all of us, both the position and the opposition, should be the basic indicator of why we should vote for such a bill. This is one way to protect and protect citizens above all, and hence those tax-paying economic operators. The non-payment of the tax cannot be paid either on a shorter or longer term to any economic operator. It is precisely transparency that will be provided with insight into who has not paid the tax, who will be sanctioned on this and what measures will be taken is another indicator for which this law should be supported, or voted. First of all, we must bear in mind that those who have not paid taxes so far have been protected, there is no known by any law, no way, but the result is that the tax debt in many public, not public, above all in restructured enterprises, i.e. in sold and privatised enterprises, has greatly exceeded the current value of these companies. The creation of a tax-paying climate in this country is one of the primary tasks of this government. As electricity must be paid, as a telephone and water must be paid, so a tax must be paid. What was the basic task in all areas, including in this area, is, above all, the precise recording of taxpayers and the second step is the precise recording of those who paid taxes and those who did not and the faster the reaction and preventing it from taking place in another period. Tax administrations can't be allowed to divide the spoils of political parties, like they did years ago. The independence and, above all, the full decision-making in accordance with the law, not only with this tax code, but also with all other tax laws, will be the basic business guideline of all tax administrations, and therefore we will also have security in that those who paid the tax are protected from those who do not pay the tax. What is very important to say is that this bill, which will introduce tax discipline, is all said quite enough, of course, by our authorised representative and by the minister, and on behalf of the parliamentary group, I thank the minister for a good and clear explanation. What is important is that MPs and SNS will support this proposal, but I call on the opposition to finally understand that this is one of the key laws that will give security to both citizens and people who are decision-makers that order can be introduced in this country and in this very serious and complex area such as the tax administration, i.e. tax collection, and I will repeat once again, the processing of those who do not pay the tax, thus directly jeopardising both the survival of businesses and the survival and future of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3812	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, and let the MP Dubravka Filipovski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3813	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a reform bill that regulates in a unique and comprehensive way the matter of paying taxes through the tax procedure and the treatment of the tax administration both according to legal persons and entrepreneurs of the taxpayers, and according to other state bodies with which co-operation is necessary. If we look at the current experience of tax practice, of course, I do not mean the level of tax rates, but the awareness and discipline of taxpayers to settle their obligations under the law, we can regrettably conclude that many economic operators in the Republic of Serbia were more concerned with the problem of not paying taxes rather than how to pay taxes. The vast majority of taxpayers have met their obligations quite frequently and at the cost of personal commodities or neglecting other obligations from their business policies, but you will admit, there are businessmen, whether they are large or small, whether entrepreneurs or legal persons, who have not been at peace with their tax obligations for years, where as a result we have a weak flow of money into the state register, from which they would again strike as much as they can without leaving anything in the same. Why would certain taxpayers be discriminated against against those who avoid paying taxes? Do we look as serious as the state when we allow those who don't pay taxes to continue their business without expecting any sanctions? What is the motive of those who pay taxes knowing that there are others who don't? The interest on the tax debt obviously did not prove to be sufficient sanctions for the unconscious paid, so we are forced to introduce stricter tax control and more adequate sanctions for those who do not meet their obligations in good time or do not meet them at all. The tax avoidance reflects negatively on a number of social spheres, especially on the financing of budget fees that are very important for the normal functioning of the state, and here above all I think about health, education, military, police, etc. In front of this government and this Assembly are major projects whose realisation requires and certain material resources. To remind us, we recently passed a number of laws that confirm the loan agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the European and the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the revitalisation of the travel network in Serbia, and I am sure that the loans would have been less if there were more money in the budget, i.e. that the tax was charged properly, and not who it wanted to be. Finally, I would like to say that I know that we are still far away, but not for long, from that English proverb – safe as tax, uncertain as death, or that tax and death payments are only certain, but I am sure that a strict, consistent and responsible application of the proposed legal solutions and how to introduce order among taxpayers, improve tax collection, ensure business under the same market conditions and grey economy will be aware of the minimum, so that the SNS in the voting day will support these drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3814	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dubravka Filipovski, as the last registered speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3815	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, we are bringing an end to the debate on this law in plenary, and I can say that for me this is one of the most important system laws aimed at increasing the efficiency of the administration, with one ultimate goal – an increase in tax revenues and curbing the grey economy. I expect that this law will have positive effects in application, particularly when it comes to reducing administrative costs, improving the efficiency of control and tax collection, strengthening legal certainty, which is primarily necessary at the moment, and in order to strengthen legal certainty, it is also necessary to strengthen both the scope and intensity of both the field and office controls of taxpayers, which is highlighted in the proposed law solution. I really expect this law to finally impose order and, above all, harmonize the functioning of the state authorities, and when I say so, I mean the APR and the tax administration, and establish more precise procedures for the exchange of data which these authorities have in their official capacity. Otherwise, we will continue to have a situation as is often present in practice today due to inadequate communication between the authorities of the state administration, as very often contradictory facts arise, and before this debate I received a letter from a citizen who asked first of all as an example of how so far his has been handled. In fact, he lives abroad and has for eight years been the successor of a certain immovableity and has a court decision to do so. However, since he did not personally go to the tax administration to fill out certain forms, he still does not run in the tax administration as the successor of certain immovableities. The paradox is that it is listed in the cathedral as the sole owner of the immovable property. So I believe that the proposed solutions in this law of this illogicality will be corrected as well as the fact that the tax act addressed to a natural person will also be considered to be delivered to a full-time member of his household by the application of this law. It has happened so far that the solution to determine the tax on property that is on the deceased's face does not wish to hand over to a member of his household, that he was returning several times, making the heirs the maximum complicated enforcement of the tax obligation. I also believe that a well-proposed solution and Article 59, which obliges the unit of local self-government to provide, within five days of the end of the calendar month, the tax administration with a name, name and surname and the FIB of the property taxpayers, as well as data from tax returns which are relevant for the determination of the tax on property, as well as data on the collection of that tax, thereby further harmonising essential data. I regret that this bill did not include something that I pointed out and discussed when the Consumer Protection Act was discussed in this vis-à-vis the House. It's my personal experience and most citizens who, when they pay taxes on their assets, have a problem with the fact that they're being charged heavy interest until the tax administration records that they paid the tax. I think even in this bill, this illogicality could have been corrected. I would have one more question for you, and there's been a lot of talk about this lately – is there a possibility that a tax on humanitarian aid can be abolished in some future period and when it comes to domestic firms? We know that foreign companies are exempt from that tax. I know that question was asked to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic the other day. This is simply expected, because we cannot rule out this as the last elemental disaster and surely these humanitarian aids will continue, so many private company owners expect, by any regulation, to even consider this issue and to have the Ministry of Finance give one answer to this question. In any case, the NS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3816	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a common principle, a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We continue at 14.00 hours on a joint single search on points 4 to 10 of the agenda. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3817	Dear colleagues, we continue the work of a joint single search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 4 to 10 of the agenda. In addition to his representative, Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and Bratislav Gasic, the defence minister, called for the meeting to be attended by Zoran Djordjevic, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence Dragan Momčilovic, Assistant Foreign Minister Colonel Milan Konjikovic, who is the head of the International Military Co-operation Board and Nenad Maricic, adviser to the foreign ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for the laws referred to in points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that it is in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament, members of that parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 180(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly open a joint uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official special passports; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on Co-operation in the field of defence; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Co-operation in the field of defence; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Military Co-operation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the Defence of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's implementation of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia's implementation of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents want a word? Does the defence minister want the Bratislav Gasic word? Here you go. The debate is united, you can explain everything you want from these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3818	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official special passports. The conclusion of an agreement with the United Arab Emirates on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official special passports is proposed in the context of further developing bilateral relations, in particular in order to intensify political economic co-operation. The agreement is expected to contribute, develop, link the economy of the two countries in the areas of agriculture, aviation, energy, information and communication technologies, construction, tourism and banking sectors, as well as other areas of mutual interest. In this context, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 9 August 2013, decided that citizens of the United Arab Emirates could enter and stay in the Republic of Serbia for up to 90 days without a visa for a period of six months. In order to continue to support the development of bilateral co-operation ties, and in the next period, this decision should be gradually replaced by a comprehensive bilateral visa waiver agreement for all types of passports of the citizens of the two countries. In the past, there has been a significant intensifying of bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries, which has contributed significantly to the activities of the mixed committee, whose president of the Serbian part of the mixed committee, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, and in this context, concrete activities are of particular importance. The government of Abu Dhabi, Emirata, approved the government of the Republic of Serbia a loan and a preferential arrangement of $1 billion. The Abu Dhabi Development Fund granted a 97m-dollar loan to the Republic of Serbia to finance the development of the irrigation system. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad airline from the United Arab Emirates signed a strategic partnership agreement establishing a new company, AER Serbia, since 1 August 2013. For several years, military-economic co-operation has tended to grow. The Califa Bin Zaed Al Dahra Foundation of the United Arab Emirates is soon beginning to fund the construction of 50 houses in the area affected by catastrophic floods in the Republic of Serbia. There is the interest of the Republic of Serbia to further develop co-operation with the United Arab Emirates in the field of water and air traffic, as well as to place all our products, on new markets, especially on the Arab Peninsula and also in Asia. It is significant in the domain of information technologies, the United Arab Emirates, plan to open a chip factory in the Republic of Serbia. In view of these activities, as well as the fact that the United Arab Emirates government ended its internal procedures on 9 June 2014, it is proposed to conclude a visa waiver agreement for the holders of diplomatic and official special passports for the two countries, a significant step towards further liberalisation of the visa regime with those countries outside the UN, with which the Republic of Serbia wants to step up bilateral co-operation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before you today is the draft law establishing the Agreement of the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Belgrade on 16 December 2013. With the entry into force of that agreement, the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Italy, signed in Rome on 19 November 2003, ceases to apply and a new legal basis for the defence ministry's co-operation, as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence, for which the parties are interested. The Agreement contains areas and forms of co-operation, provisions on co-operation in the area of defence material resources, provisions on financial matters, or costs incurred by its implementation, as well as general provisions concerning compensation for damages and intellectual property. The agreement provides for ways to address possible disputes, changes and additions, how it enters into force, period of validity and cancellation. Co-operation in defence with the Republic of Italy can be seen as good with the possibility of further intensifying and improving. The focus of the co-operation area is on education and training, military co-operation, training of special units and training teams to remove unexploded killings, co-operation in the field of aviation, intelligence reconnaissance and military medicine. Given the high technological level and the wide range of diapason products of the Italian military industry, as well as our needs in the capabilities and research and development and areas in the production of NGOs, there is an interest in improving military technical co-operation with Italian companies. In order to achieve the forms of co-operation mentioned above, it is necessary to conclude a general defence co-operation contract, which would legally regulate those issues in accordance with the Vienna Convention, contract law and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3819	I thank Minister Gasic. Do the reports of the committee in charge want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Alexander Chotric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3820	Thank you, Madam President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Serbia is hoping to re-emerge from the period of confrontation and with the environment and with the countries of Europe and the Council and the confrontation at the end with itself and we believe that these proposals of the agreement that the Assembly should also confirm contribute to establishing co-operation with the European countries in the area of defence, so that these proposals that Parliament should also ratify in accordance with the UN Charter, our Constitution, with laws in the field of defence, and primarily contribute to building trust, understanding and co-operation. Therefore, this agreement also lays down the principles of equality, equality, reciprocity, and what is particularly important and common interests. In addition, they also create a framework for other agreements, given that the primary objective of the proposed laws is to establish a legal framework that would enable the co-operation of parties or their competent authorities in the field of defence, then defence planning, military economic co-operation, military - scientific, military education, training and participation in peace operations, as well as in other segments of common interest. So, in the SPO parliamentary group – the Democratic Party of Serbia, we believe that the security of our country and our people is a prerequisite for economic, economic, cultural development and that it is very important that we have as many friends as possible in the environment as possible, as well as among the relevant countries in the European and world frameworks because we saw that adventures ended in the previous period when we were without friends and when we were controversed and when we were in certain times, especially in the 1990s, in conflict with the whole world, that from somewhere, extraterrestrials from other planets would probably have been in conflict with them, simply that was when Serbia and the world were two worlds, when then the leadership assured us that all others were going the wrong way and that they were meeting, and that only Serbia was on the right path. We are going back, and that is good, and by the wise conduct of politics as it characterized the Kingdom of Serbia and later the newly created common state, first the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, just as Nikola Pasic said that we must tie our small Serbian ship to some large and secure Allied ship in order to pass through all the storms and storms. We will ratify agreements in the field of military co-operation and with countries that are in the EU, such as Italy and Poland with countries like Moldova, but also with countries that are in the east of the continent and which have their own security policy or create military-security alliances according to their own needs. These agreements are important for improving bilateral relations, so our countries with each individual country, but also for improving bilateral co-operation, but also for overall security in Europe and beyond Europe. This is the basis for improving co-operation in other areas as well. It is very important when such important agreements are signed in such a sensitive area as the defence, because it is the opening of doors for agreements in the fields of economy, economy, trade, tourism, traffic, science, education and other areas. As for our co-operation in the field of defence with Azerbaijan, I would say that it was a few years ago that co-operation was initiated by the previous government and that the current government continued successfully. So this defence agreement is in fact just a continuation of good friendly relations, especially after the adoption of the declaration of friendly relations and the strategic partnership between the two countries that signed Presidents Tomislav Nikolic and Ilham Aliev in the capital of Azerbaijan in Baku last February. In addition, we are increasing the continued foreign trade exchange with Azerbaijan, and in the last five years, as much as thirty times has been increased. In addition, we received credit under favourable conditions from the government of Azerbaijan for the construction of a share of the road from Ljiga to Cacak and their company Azvirt implements these jobs and that is the only share in Corridor 11 where there are no delays, where the works are planned to take place 40km on the basis of that 308m-euro Azerbaijani loan. As regards co-operation with Italy in the area of defence, it is very important because the previous agreement also referred to Italy's co-operation with the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and this agreement provides for further improvement in the field of military education, military training, ABHO centres, military-economic co-operation and it is important that co-operation in this area is on the rise and this is also support for Italy's European integration of Serbia and this is also a contribution to professional engagement of members of the Italian Armed Forces as part of KFOR. This agreement aims to co-operate on education, to perfect our staff, to train special units, also covers the field of intelligence and reconnaissance, training teams to remove unexploded killings, and all this says that military and educational co-operation between Serbia and Italy has been very developed since 2005, as 59 members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army have been to education and training in military-educated Italian institutions since 2005. What is worth pointing out is that our cadets were among the best foreign cadets in Italian military institutions, that they had achieved success above the average of other candidates, both from Italy and from other countries. It is good that this agreement represents one framework for further development of co-operation, especially since our ministry has expressed interest that in the next school year it also directs members to general staff in the centres of high defence studies in Rome, then training courses for the removal of unexploded killings for attending courses in the field of civil-military co-operation, etc. The Ministry of Defence of Italy has offered training at all levels of education for members of our armed forces, but in principle of reciprocity and has allowed members of the Italian Armed Forces to school at our military-school institutions. Therefore, this agreement also enables military-medical co-operation, through exchange and training of military doctors, to establish co-operation between the ABHO centres located in Kruševec, where the minister, then intervidovks of the school, chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear protection of the Italian Armed Forces, etc. The defence ministry is grateful, we have seen it from a statement from our ministry's representative for an offer from the Italian side that members of our ministry and the Serbian Army can study Italian language in the Italian cultural centre in Belgrade, and all this allows for the strengthening of military-economic co-operation between the two countries and all of this enables the integration of our country with EU members on the defence plan, which allows integration in other areas, and it is good that the military is ahead of it. The positive sides of such agreements are that confidential data, military secrets remain protected, no additional costs for the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army from our budget. This is also an excellent basis for developing our defence system, for exchanging experiences, for developing the dedicated industry, for training military personnel, for modernising the defence system. I also want to point out that it's a good thing these agreements came to the assembly shortly after the signing. There is an agreement waiting several years for MPs to meet, and these agreements have already come to the Assembly after only a few months and will be able to be applied. For all of these reasons, we will in voting day support the proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3821	The word has a master's degree, Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3822	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint single-species review of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, then five draft laws confirming a defence co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of the Republic of Italy, the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Moldova and the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations, which provides resources to the transitional forces of the United Nations in Lebanon. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group will support the aforementioned draft laws in the voting day. The conclusion of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports was proposed as a result of mutual respect and trust between the two sides and overall excellent bilateral relations. The agreement will certainly contribute to improving economic co-operation and expanding overall co-operation between Serbia and the Emirates. On the other hand, it should be said that the opportunities for co-operation between Serbia and the Emirates have not been sufficiently used so far. There is room for promotion in all areas, especially agriculture, then energy, new technologies, construction, pharmaceuticals and tourism. By 2012, the volume of co-operation between the two countries was quite modest and amounted to 20m euros, and now we are talking about billions of euros in loans and investments. Do the Emirates, on the other hand, have an interest in working with Serbia? They certainly have an interest in investing money in Serbia before they wait, because when investing in the EU there are procedures and regulatory obstacles. Business with Serbia is much easier at the moment. For Emirate, this link with Serbia is the entrance to a small door in the EU that Serbia wants to approach, as well as access to the once powerful military industry. Also, this agreement is in line with the provisions of type-approval agreements on visa waivers for holders of diplomatic and official passports, a continuation of the start-up process of visa liberalisation for passport holders outside the EU, for which there is a concrete interest in the Republic of Serbia. Now, speaking of the aforementioned laws in the area of defence, it should be said that their primary goal is to establish a legal framework that would allow the parties and their competent authorities to co-operate in the area of defence. Speaking of an agreement with Russia, the goal of this agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation is to develop military co-operation, as well as to develop overall bilateral relations and peace and security in the world. The agreement provides for an exchange of views, experiences and information on issues of common interest in the military field, the development of links in the field of military education, military topography, military cartography, military history and medicine and military culture and sports. In addition, the exchange of experience from UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions is envisaged. In addition to the exchange of visits by official delegations at different levels, this agreement includes, among other things, a visit to military aviation and groups of pilots, the participation of the parties in military exercises at the invitation of the partners, but their presence as observers, exchange of experience in legal matters and other forms of co-operation. Two important points of agreement are strengthening co-operation in the military industry, as well as the possibility of training officers in Russian institutions and their participation in various exercises. On the other hand, when we talk about business co-operation between Serbia and Russia, it should first be said that this co-operation has existed for 120 years, that Serbia has received the first loan from Russia since 1867. Speaking of this law, it should be said that Serbia and Russia's economic co-operation also features long traditions, strong progress in previous years and an extraordinary perspective for some orderly period. As far as Italy and Serbia are concerned, the aim of this agreement is to co-operate in the area of defence: defence planning, military-economic, military-science co-operation, military education and training, peace operations, as well as other segments of common interest. Co-operation in the defence area between Serbia and Italy should be assessed as developed, with room for further improvement. Italy is giving support to Serbia on the way to European integration. In particular, professional engagement of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Italy within KFOR units in Kosovo and Metohija should be highlighted, especially as they preserve the Serbian cultural heritage – the Decani monastery and Pecko Patriarchi. As for Azerbaijan, the agreement between Serbia and Azerbaijan creates a formal legal framework to further improve military-economic, military-educated and military-medical co-operation. The signing of the Agreement is the result of the development of good and friendly relations. The two countries' military co-operation has also been enhanced by joint participation in military exercises that contribute to the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army. In particular, the strong and principled support Azerbaijan provides in Serbia's legitimate fight to preserve sovereignty and territorial integrity in Kosovo and Metohija. As for Poland, military-educated co-operation, air co-operation, military archives and religious services were prescribed as a difficult area of co-operation. The experience of Poland in security and defence aspects, EU integration and exchange of experience in the field of participation in multinational operations should also be used. It certainly needs to be commended for the professional engagement of Polish forces members of KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija. As regards the Agreement with Moldova, the proposed Agreement allows for co-operation in defence, defence planning, military-economic co-operation, military-science co-operation, then military education and training and peace operations, as well as other segments of common interest. This agreement certainly creates conditions to take the necessary measures to develop bilateral military co-operation and strengthen partner and friendly relations over the next period. At the very end, speaking of the bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN, which provides resources to the UN's transitional forces in Lebanon, I will say very briefly that, taking into account the growing number of crisis and armed conflict in the world, multinational operations have become increasingly important because of respect for the rule of law, which is crucial to maintaining peace and security in the world. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill, as the engagement of members of the military in multinational operations of the Republic of Serbia clearly shows that it is an active factor in the preservation of peace and security in the world. At the very end, in the day to vote, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support all the bills mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3823	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3824	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Poland, Italy, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Moldova, Azerbaijan, as well as a draft law confirming the memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN, which provides resources to the UN transitional forces in Lebanon. The aim of this law or agreement is to establish military education and training at the highest possible level, to strengthen defence and security policy, to establish better co-operation in military and scientific technical co-operation. For this reason, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – NDS – ZZS – will vote for these laws because we support the establishment of bilateral relations, i.e. The co-operation of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Defence with other countries in the area of defence. I can't help but make a summary of how this happened. I remind you that during the time Boris Tadic was the federal defence minister, then the president of Serbia, a comprehensive defence reform was launched that ended with the professionalisation of the armed forces in 2011. All of this was attended by the minister at the time, Mr Sutanovac, so that the Serbian Army became the most modern army in the world, allowing it to participate in UN and EU missions, as Serbia became ready to meet all the challenges ahead of it. At the time, bilateral defence agreements with more than 50 countries were signed, and within that number, with all countries in the region except Albania. There is the most important agreement with Croatia, given that we were at war with Croatia and that this has made a great contribution to normalising relations and the process of reconciliation in the region. I cannot help but mention some of the agreements we have reached, first of all, with the National Guard of Ohio, which today participates in training our soldiers at the South base in Bujanovac, where preparations are being made for participation in peacekeeping missions. Also, given that our Sanitary team is highly respected and recognizable in the world, I cannot help but point out that it has also contributed to the establishment of a defence university and the establishment of a medical school at VMA, where they educate our doctors and officers on these sanity teams. For the first time, participation in EU missions in Africa has been achieved, which is of particular importance for Serbia on its way to EU accession, as Serbia takes over both the EU's common and security and defence policies in this way. It also encourages the fact of Serbia's readiness for its troops' participation in the EU Mission in Mali. During Boris Tadic's ministry and the ministry of Mr Sutanovac, the participation of the Serbian Army in UN missions has been increased multiplely. It's particularly important that we had soldiers with weapons in those missions during this very period. Until then, we took part in missions as observers within the Sanitary Teams. The UN missions in Lebanon and Cyprus we participated in were particularly important. During the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, which I myself participated in, many laws have been passed that create legal frameworks for the participation of our army in multinational operations, through which the defence of the country is carried out, meet internationally accepted obligations stemming from the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to the UN and other international organisations. Also, the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in the UN and EU in international security forces is an important segment of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia which greatly contributes to Serbia as a member of the UN and a partnership for peace as an equal partner that actively contributes to world peace and stability. We are very pleased that you have recognized this policy and that you have continued the continuity of this policy, which we are grateful for. We expect you to continue to carry out the duties and tasks set before our army in the future. Mr. Minister, I'm using your presence to ask some questions about military co-operation with the Russian Federation. I think it is necessary for the public to learn about the realisation of the plans announced in 2012 on the procurement of aircraft and PSC systems from the Russian Federation, as well as Russian support for our exports of weapons and military equipment to third markets. In this regard is the question – is the problem of getting a battery for our moments solved? One more question, I believe you will be able to answer me immediately as far as the Mission to Lebanon is concerned. We all know that we currently have 143 members who are engaged in Lebanon. This agreement provides for 185. When and will there be an increase in that number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3825	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3826	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I must confess that today's proposal to ratify the defence agreement is for me, music for my ears. This is a practical continuation of the continuity of good defence co-operation policy with many countries around the world and certainly that the DS parliamentary group will support these ratifications, given that we believe that co-operation in the area of defence is in a large number of cases precisely the essence of co-operation not only in the area of defence, but also between the two countries. What is said, and I particularly want to point out, is that Serbia today, both in our strategic documents and in cooperation agreements, has no enemies. The countries with which we were at war are today countries that signed an agreement in the area of defence with Serbia, and this is extremely important, given that Serbia was virtually excluded from the UN on October 5th and had no possibility of co-operation and was perceived in the international community. In the meantime, today with these agreements, we can say that practically from Indonesia, Kuwait, via Iraq, Turkey, almost all of Europe, including the Russian Federation, has fallen under contracts the Ministry of Defence has with those countries today. It's extremely important for a number of reasons. The military aspect of co-operation that you've been talking about, I don't want to talk about, but I would especially like to highlight an extremely important aspect of co-operation that needs to continue the way it was run until 2012, which is not at that level today. I know that the position of this government is that everything that is wrong is attributed to the government by 2012, all that is right is your work result, but statistics show that military-economic co-operation and production in our dedicated industry is in a slight decline, in some factories in a major decline. I know you were at the First Partisan. I'm glad you attended the opening of the factory whose cornerstone I set up. I wasn't there. I was invited. I wish you had a chance to do it. If you look at the analysis of the agreements signed and the analysis of the exports of arms and military equipment in recent years, you will see that, with the growth of these agreements, we also have an increase in arms exports and military equipment, that is, what our so-called product is. the dedicated industry. In 2007, the U.S. Serbia exported about $75m or $77m. In the last three years of power, the former authorities, we've exported about 250 million dollars. The main countries of the customers and the countries with which we co-operated are the countries with which we have signed co-operation agreements, and I am sure that the state of Serbia has no single bigger contract than it has, for example, with Algeria or Iraq, and I believe that we will have with Azerbaijan. Also, I know that the extremely high level of co-operation in the area of defence is also with Azerbaijan. I expect the co-operation to continue with Kuwait. I look forward to the possibility of co-operation that once existed, but because the Emirates are among the first countries... The bays that recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and unfortunately at the time we practically broke off their co-operation, as well as Kuwait, and we didn't cooperate the way you're doing it now. I certainly congratulate you on that, but I think you must pay attention that it is not enough to sign only agreements, but, Mr. Minister, you must find a way and means and time, to sit in the means of transport that it is and visit those countries, because these are the countries in which Serbia today, thanks to your agility, should and may export arms, or military equipment. I'm saying this because I don't think we're aware of the overall capacity of our defence industry. Often when we talk about bilateral co-operation and when we talk about economics, we ignore something that is probably our biggest export product, which is the product of the dedicated industry. Most of these products in some factories, such as the First Partizan, I think that even more than 90% are currently being exported. It is exported to a foreign market, especially Western Europe and America, and it must certainly be supported. I am pleased that, through these contracts and contracts on a stand-by arrangement with the UN, Serbia is returning to the big door among those countries participating in the so-called. Keeping peace around the world. We often talk about the tradition of the Serbian Army, that in ancient times we had an extremely high participation in these operations, but unfortunately we forget that Serbia has existed in this capacity since 2007, the Ministry of Defence, and that in practically 2007, we have returned to that position. Today, Serbia, thanks to these contracts, signed at some point in time and today, is one of the world's top 10 exporters of security. When I say the biggest exporters of security, I think about... distributors in UN missions and certainly this is an exceptional improvement in external-political capacity and bilateral capacity. I will remind you that the biggest aid that has come to our country through donations, the biggest aid that comes through donations from the Ministry of Defence, comes from those countries with which Serbia has the best military, or co-operation in the area of defence. I'm talking about Norway, Denmark, the United States, Austria, countries that are close to us allies in the area of defense. The countries also provide assistance not only to the defence system, but to the entire republic. Mr. Minister, I think you've gone a long way. I'm sorry that sometimes you criticize the past time you're leaning on and using the best parts of that time to promote the system, but I think you're going to get past those baby goddesses. I believe you're thinking for the best, and believe me. We are deeply convinced that if it continues in this way, based on the foundations set since 2007 and something earlier, the defence system will be able to advance. It's very important that you devote yourself to that part of military-economic co-operation. I think military co-operation is working extremely well, but military-business co-operation has to be done by a man in position number one in the Department of Defense. I believe that if you do that, we'll be able to remake extremely large contracts, like we did with Iraq, with Algeria. It's something that makes me happy, but you need to be aware that it's a hard job, it's gonna take a lot of time to do it. Please, as you say, run as soon as possible, because the factories of the dedicated industry have recently been in no condition in which they were a few years ago. I remind you, when I became Minister of Defence in 2007, just before that in Krusik, workers strike hunger, and then they had a contract of the century, then they exported to Iraq, then it worked maximum. Today, the "Kruik" problem is again. Today, people return home to the plants of the dedicated industry, or temporary and occasional jobs at which they worked, are slowly lost. It's up to you to try, and we're here to help you, to bring back those factories to smile and get the workers back to the factories, to produce and to export them. Once again, this is an extremely good thing being considered here today. I deeply believe that all authorities, in the future, will observe military co-operation this way. I had my own personal, unlike you, extremely much trouble when we verified a co-operation agreement here in the area of defence with Croatia. We were attacked by those members of the current party at your place who were then in another party. They didn't understand at the time. Today we have an understanding for you and we show that we will not treat business through rematchism. We accept those people who have established their mistakes and support every effort to make it better in the system. We'll vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3827	The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3828	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true, Mr Sutanovac, that on 27 April 2012, you set up this stone foundation in the election campaign, but I did not open any factory. At the "First Partizan" I was on a regular visit and I can tell you that the results of "First Partizan" have been significant over the past two years. This is seen from their balance sheet, so they cover the loss of 2009 and 2010, because they then showed a loss. In 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 covered that loss from that period. As for Krusika, Krusik, we must be open to the problem of the moment when political employment started in the factory, rather than the way they have jobs to take people into temporary and occasional jobs. There are 1,500 constantly employed workers and have good contracts and, fortunately, a huge difference in price with those contracts with those third-market countries. That's the answer to Mr Bogdanovic in one part of his question. Of course, the poor privatisation of one part of Krusika has led to this part of the dedicated production having major problems, but we expect that in the next period, with one significant aid, which we as the Ministry of Defence can provide, of course, with the SDPR, they will slowly start to come out of these problems. As for Azerbaijan, an invitation came today to the Ministry of Defence for an official visit from August 11th to 13th of the current year. We expect more significant contracts in the next period with them. We already talked last time about the important jobs we do in Algeria, which are in preparation and in the final phase of the design. And military medical facilities and other things signed over the past two years. As far as Kuwait is concerned, I'll remind you that then your assistant, Mr. Sutanovac, and later the foreign minister, made a diplomatic scandal with the Ambassador of Kuwait who was coming and asked the Ministry of Defence and the dedicated industry to have more important jobs, and you know perfectly who I'm talking about. As for the Partnership for Peace, Mr Bogdanovic, since 2003, we have, in the last session of the Assembly, I have come to you with clear information from the Members of Parliament... The highest in 2013, which is growing every year, 394 members of the Serbian Army were sent to peacekeeping operations worldwide for 13 peacekeeping missions. In 2014 we expect that number to be in all rotations over 420. When you ask why in Lebanon was approved by the National Assembly 185, we have 185, you have in the material, 143 members of the company who left less than a month ago. We also have motor vehicles sent there along with officers, so we're going out to this number. I can read to you: Staff officers - nine, staff officers in command - two. It's a total of 185 along with the technical staff going. That's what you have in the material you've been given. I agree with you that this military industry will in a very different way than in the previous period, as it was treated, as the Ministry of Defense to help. As for the battery for our moments, under the orders of Russian President Mr. Putin, on the proposal of Mr. Shoygu's defence minister, an order has been signed that the Russian Army presents two batteries. I hope they'll be here very soon. They were supposed to arrive last week, but we're going to get those two batteries for our 29. In order to avoid confusion, this is more on a friendly and personal basis and the relationships we build with our partners in the Russian Federation, this does not mean that our, as there were public opinion stories, aircraft are grounded. We don't just have moments 29. It ends very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3829	I thank the ministers. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. An ambassador of the Sutanovac, the foundation? (Dear Sutanovac, from place: Article 104) Article 104 says - if an offensive statement is made by the minister about you or by an offensive reference to the name and last name, the function, or the misreading of his exposure. He treated you very politely, even agreed with you. Here's two minutes, if you think there was something rude about it. But I don't see what was offensive when he said he agreed with you. Otherwise, you don't. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Are you talking to him or with me? With you alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3830	If he's misreading, you said. It's nothing offensive. Why do you have to be offensive to make someone think? It's a practice that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3831	I must explain it to you. I really didn't participate, nor was I an MP in writing to the Rules of Procedure, so I can't answer what it says in Rule 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3832	Short if you'll excuse me, let me finish. Just give me back those 20 seconds. It's very important to us. Mr. Minister, as you've set out that Minister of Defence Shoegu has spoken to Putin, President Putin has brought an order, I've thought one six MiG 29 new coming to Belgrade and we can say today, we've received a donation worth the attention. Unfortunately, those batteries, if I understand correctly, are given as a gift. It's two batteries, it's probably a smaller gift, if it can be said 100 times what we get from China, let's say on an annual level of help they give. We're grateful for two batteries, but I don't think that's something we should mention here as a big deal right now. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, you can see in my term of office for five and a half years the only director who was appointed was Director of "Freedom" in Cačka because of poor work results. All directors of the dedicated industry were inherited, including Davidovic, who was appointed at the time of the DSS. There's not a single director who was a party director, but there's not one, there's no party employment. I'm ready to sit with you and all the directors and ask who's party employee and where. The fact is that there is now doubt or information that the current director of Krusika has some relation to the President of the Republic. I wasn't involved in it, I don't know, but they say they're close by some kind of kin, do you via a woman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3833	We have no doubts. We have no doubts about the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3834	... But anyway, I want to tell you another thing. If some factory is doing well, and you're changing directors, she's starting to do bad. Then we can't charge the former government. Krusik is in big trouble, "Freedom" in Chačka is a problem. We're lucky the Lucians work, but they don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3835	Time, two minutes and four seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3836	But you took 20 seconds to get me started.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3837	Two minutes and nine seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3838	I'm a gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3839	Two minutes and 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3840	I give you those 10 seconds, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3841	Minister Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3842	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without the intention of entering the controversy about it, I have fenced myself a little before that these batteries are something we can take from any truck and put on. You know best, that the value of these batteries is close to 100,000 euros, that it is special batteries and at our request and Ministry of Defence during my last visit to Russia, I addressed Minister of Defence Soyguyu with a request and with a request to help us solve this problem because of procedures and their and ours that last very long, and we have run out of resources. At his request, of course, he can't, as I can't, as a defence minister, alienate any of Serbia's military assets just like that. It's not boats, boat engines, or anything else, or tanks to melt, but it just has to have some order. The president approved it. When new planes arrive, Mr. Sutanovac, these new six, and the topic is this trade credit with the Russian Federation that started two years ago, surely you'll be in one to take a ride as a former minister and spend a few hours of their resources, to go to a nice party, which we can have on that occasion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3843	I hope your call to all MPs is valid, so there will be no discrimination. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3844	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, members of the government, dear colleagues, once again, what is often happening in discussions when we have united agenda points, which would say are not particularly interesting to the public, but we can use it for daily and personal promotion. It seems to me that I may be wrong to say that some of our successes are as difficult as the successes of a large system, as before and after we are no good. I think a big system like the Department of Defense is neither beginning nor ending by self-positioning a certain man who runs the system. The obligation of all of us, who are earlier and in the future to be the head of large systems and to promote them only as much as our capabilities allow and the opportunities of the sector that we are leading. In order to rationalise the time and resources used for each plenary session, I would shorten this discussion and stress that these are typical agreements, but not typical in terms of their importance being reduced, but simply in this way what has been done everywhere in the world, so we are trying to do now in Serbia and make our system as concrete and as effective as possible. With these agreements ahead of us today, we are trying to achieve one goal, which is to establish a legal framework that would enable the co-operation of contracting parties and competent authorities in the fields of defence and security policy and military education, training and military economic and scientific cooperation, of course both in military medicine and veterinary as well as in other areas of common interest. When we talk about proposals for laws to confirm agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on co-operation in the field of defence, it should be said that this agreement was signed on 4 December 2013 and all these agreements were signed in the previous year. This agreement creates a legal basis for co-operation between the two defence ministries, as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence for which both sides are interested. This agreement contains provisions in the areas of co-operation, the annual bilateral co-operation plan, the exchange of data, the cost of its implementation, as well as general provisions concerning compensation for damages. It also contains provisions on medical protection, on ways in which any disputes will be resolved and provisions on amendments and additions and on how it enters into force, period of validity, cancellation. As I said at the beginning, it's one type of agreement and it's indicative co-operation. It is up to us to specify, above all, that in the next period, we will agree in detail within these areas in which we will cooperate. The next agreement, with Italy signed in December 2013, annuls a previous agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Italy signed in Rome in November 2003, so we also get a new legal basis for co-operation between the two ministries. The agreement with the Russian Federation's government on military co-operation was signed last November, and it as well as the previous agreement defines both the goal and the basic directions in which military co-operation will develop in the next period between the two countries. The draft law confirming an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the area of defence was signed in February of this year. He also has type forms we've been talking about so far. The agreement with Poland is also on defence co-operation signed in June 2013. These agreements certainly improve bilateral relations between the two countries, of course peace and security in the world, as colleagues mentioned earlier. I think that in this period and our Ministry of Defence and many other ministries, when we turn to the process of European integration, one of the priorities is to improve and modernise all types of co-operation, and especially international bilateral, multilateral co-operation, and this is one significant contribution to this. Also, in addition to the story, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official and special passports. So, add to this whole story and our efforts to improve international co-operation in all areas. The conclusion of bilateral agreements in interstate visa-free relations is considered to be a significant step towards creating as favourable conditions as possible for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation and in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of mutual interest and importance. So much for this part of the address. The SNS parliamentary group will declare on the day of the vote on these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3845	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3846	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group will certainly support all proposed laws on the validation of those agreements. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can express great satisfaction that here in the National Assembly, as always, and the last time you were here, we have a high agreement on all these issues, which means that we are at one level aware that these are very important issues that go in favour of the Republic of Serbia, as part of what international relations and co-operation with the international community are. Of course and thank God that Serbia has come out of major problems and from the period of confrontation and misunderstanding with the international community. I would not talk about this confrontation and these misunderstandings, but certainly that a set of circumstances has made it possible that there may be an objective reason for the gap that was in past times between Serbia and the international community. So the question is whether, for example, Rambouje would have accepted at that time, as it was then proposed, whether today would have a good and perspective position for Serbia, which is seeking its place within the international community as an independent state, with full sovereignty, with what is its perspective, etc. I have no intention of talking about these aspects, but simply today we have another position – that Serbia has a lot of friends in the world among the countries of the international community, and I want to say that it is certainly an SPS policy, and especially since the time it entered power, since 2008, with Ivica Dacic, it has made a very significant contribution to different relations and overcoming misunderstandings with the international community. This is the result of the ruling coalitions that have been in power in Serbia since 2008-2012, with the Democratic Party, and then from 2012-2014 until the elections, when Ivica Dacic was prime minister, he certainly made a significant contribution to it, along with the SNS. Here also today, during Vucic's government, since this year, the SPS is also on the same course of building good relations and finding ways to join the EU, to be an equal member of the EU, hopefully within a certain period of time, and a respectable factor in international politics on the international political scene. Of course, the SPS has followed such an active policy since the very beginning, even at a time when it was in opposition, because it can be said that, in fact, after 2000 and after that time, the SPS has attached itself to a new policy that is still under way today. It is certainly pro-European politics, and we as a country today are a desirable partner in the international community in the framework of international co-operation. A significant contribution to such a single course and to such co-operation with the international community has certainly made policy in the area of defence, which is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence in that operational sense. Otherwise, the government is the one behind foreign and internal policy, but the defence portfolio certainly had a significant impact on that direction, I say, from an earlier period, and, of course, today the defence portfolio, which you are leading, Mr. Minister, is on that course. The Socialist Party of Serbia certainly supports it. It is also a significant contribution to the policy that has been conducted in the area of security and crime prevention, especially that of the international format, and there are numerous agreements that are in the earlier period, and are now being concluded, as in many other areas. Today, we have on the agenda a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the UAE on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. I don't think there's anything more natural than confirming such an agreement, because we are witnessing that we have extraordinary relations with the UAE, which exist earlier today, but certainly today is on a bigger and more envious level thanks to what is today's current Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's policy. So we have a number of projects and co-operation with this country, for example, is working on what is important investment, "Etihad", and then "Belgrade on Water" which is current these days and which will, of course, be even more relevant in terms of the realization of such a large project that will enable the development of the construction industry, but also many other areas, great employment and the opening of a better perspective of the area of governance and economy. Also on the agenda, we have a conclusion, i.e. a confirmation of the defence agreement with Italy, the Republic of Poland, the Russian Federation, Moldova and Azerbaijan. It is very important that this co-operation establishes and strengthens a legal framework that enables defence planning, a military-economic co-operation that is very important, where we can achieve significant profits and significant results in what is both the production and operation of the dedicated industry in these relations and exports, etc., then military and scientific co-operation is also important, education, training and finally peaceful operations which also represent a significant sphere in what is the spread of good voice, so to speak, about Serbia. In fact, through this area of defence, etc., we pave the way for other co-operation with many countries in the international community. It is a pleasure that we can positively assess what is a policy in the defence of the Republic of Serbia, in what is co-operation with the international community, and I hope that it will continue to improve, and in particular, our parliamentary group will always support one such policy, and in this case we will support all proposed legislation on the validation of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3847	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3848	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, there are days when it is indeed a great pleasure to be a Parliamentarian. Serbia's military, after researching public opinion, according to reforms it has carried out within itself, is certainly the institution that enjoys the greatest trust among Serbian citizens, an institution that, when you look objectively at what it has done, deserves the most trust again. The tradition of Serbia's Liberation Wars is really big. I am pleased that all MPs, my colleagues, have a lot of respect for this institution and with great understanding support the policy which is the continuation of the policy that was established after October 5th. You know, Mr. Minister, that we have worked very closely together, that together we have been in the past elections precisely because many of the hopes that were needed and reforms to be implemented, and to improve the lives of citizens after October 5, have been failed. But in this area, no. I think we'll all do something good for our political scene if what was really good, no matter who was the promoter of that policy, we say it's good, and if, no matter who the promoter of bad policy, we say something is bad because it's objectively bad. Due to these series of bilateral agreements, a memorandum of understanding with the UN, primarily the Republic of Serbia will benefit double. The benefits are both economic and economic and tourist and military and security. As the National Assembly, we have voted many acts, a defence strategy, a security strategy, and everything on the agenda today is in the spirit of these strategies and in the spirit of new policy. As vice-president of the SPO, the MP, who performs in front of the party who criticised a certain kind of policy in the public, was misread, as if the SPO had something against the then military. Even in the 1990s, the army did everything in its jurisdiction. The second thing is what was the government's policy and the policy of the official state summit, and the military under the constitution has to listen to government decisions. What we were up against were the para-military formations and many criminals who put on a uniform or put on a Duke of Steph hat, but they had neither the Duke of Steph's head, nor the education of Duke Steph, nor the patriotism of Duke Steph, nor the relationship to the enemy of Duke Steph, and therefore we paid one terrible price, and today we have to say it openly. Serbia with a number of bilateral agreements improves all kinds of co-operation with the signatories countries. Again, in the 1990s, there was a wrong matrix. Belgrade was believed to defend itself in Knin, and we are one of the few who advocated politics to defend Knin in Belgrade. In what way? First of all, diplomacy, military diplomacy and such forms of co-operation. Unfortunately, when we realized that, it was too late for many things. It is also important to mention the really great reputation that Serbian military members have in both the international community and all countries with which we have good bilateral co-operation. Even in 1999, when we faced the world's largest military army since the world and century, members of the then enemy armies had an unprecedented attitude towards courage and the heroism of Serb officers and Serb soldiers who showed it at the time. What are we going to do with these agreements? What Mr. Sutanovac mentioned, you commented, and we expect more employment from our dedicated industry above all. In recent years, after a few years of one stagnation, it has been a constant rise and on you is one and an easy and difficult task. It is easy that you should continue this kind of policy, and it is a difficult task indeed that this type of co-operation is very specific, very complex and should agree on a number of factors that will fully improve and be the way we want it to be. On the other hand, someone mentioned it, and that's what I wanted to say, after October 5th, the biggest donations came right from countries with which we have excellent bilateral and military co-operation. Mr. Vukic, when he was Deputy Prime Minister, said something that I commented as a bold and responsible statement, that until he became Minister of Defence himself, he did not know how important bilateral-military co-operation or our participation in collective security systems and how much it affected our country's reputation in diplomatic terms. I think it is really good that this policy that many have been against in the 1990s is not only an official state policy, but it is today a policy represented by all parliamentary parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that is the greatest victory of this kind of reasonable policy. I would also mention a UN study that nobody here mentioned when we talked about the military and what's been going on for the last 20 years. It suggests that in Europe, and unfortunately only at the premises of the former Yugoslavia were ethnic conflicts after World War II, both in Africa and Asia, after ideological conflicts were replaced by ethnic conflicts where certain nations were asking the question of who we were. The answers were sought in the context of ancestors, religions, languages, history, values, customs, institutions, etc., and this is the price of leaving the authoritarian regime in which everyone is considered equally unscathed and oppressed. It is good that Serbia has sobered up, it is good that Serbia has returned to itself, it is good that Serbia has a civilian as defence minister, it is good that Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3849	Thank you, MP. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3850	... fully implement one reasonable and responsible policy and as long as it is your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3851	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3852	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and members of the Government, we have before us several international agreements that our Ministry of Defence concluded with the relevant resolution ministries of the Russian Federation, Italy, Poland, Moldova and Azerbaijan. It is very good that these agreements are made with as many countries in the world, because it reflects well-led foreign policy and an important indicator of the international position our countries and armies enjoy. Certainly, the military co-operation agreement with Russia is of great importance to us, and the question is – why has one such agreement not been brought before, especially if the state of Serbia has already signed and ratified similar bilateral and multilateral agreements with several states and international organisations? By signing this agreement, we in this field of co-operation in the domain of security are consistently implementing the principle of military neutrality. About the benefits of such an agreement should not be too much of a waste of words for us. Russia is one of the two world military super powers, which has great both human and material potential, which we could all see during the recent floods, when threatened by the inhabitants of Lazarets and Obrenovac the first to assist Russian specialists who had previously crossed a distance of over 1,000 kilometers in just one day. Their abilities, training and professionalism could personally convince thousands of people who were unhappy, and through the media and the whole country, and that is why I believe that we can get a lot of this agreement, especially through two of the most important routes of military co-operation that are listed in Articles 2 and 3. The proposal for an agreement, which primarily includes mutual participation in military exercises, exchange of military experiences and participation in the follow-up at conferences. Our army can thus get the opportunity to learn about the most modern types of weapons and techniques, as well as the experience of solving the various crisis challenges that can be faced by military forces. An additional advantage is that a good part of the weapons of the training system, including the very way of thinking, decision making and the mentality of our elder encourages or is inspired precisely by the Russian side, so there is one technical and human connection that is further deepened by the links established by the aid provided during the elementary disasters. I believe it is necessary to sign the Agreement on the Exchange of Secret Information referred to in Article 6 as soon as possible. The agreement, because we live in a very unstable time, filled with security challenges, where some of the facts can depend on more human lives from time to time, and we've already signed these agreements with a number of states. I believe that no less significant agreements on co-operation with Italy and Poland, two major NATO pact member states that have significant military forces in relation to Moldova and Azerbaijan, because these are countries of similar characteristics as ours and have similar problems in protecting their territorial integrity. Finally, the visa waiver agreement on diplomatic passports with the United Arab Emirates should certainly be welcomed and should work to abolish visas for ordinary passports, given that the number of our citizens who work and stay in this country is increasing from year to year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the PUPS parliamentary group will be pleased to support the proposals of these agreements in the day to be applied as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3853	Thank you. The word has Ninoslav Girić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3854	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws confirming the military co-operation agreement and, among other things, confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. Namely, this contract was signed on 13.11.2013 and the adoption of that bill aims to establish comprehensive co-operation in defence and security policies, then military education and training, scientific and technical co-operation, military medicine co-operation, as well as exchanges of different experiences gained in peacekeeping missions around the world. The agreement also implies a very high importance for further development of Serbian-Russian co-operation practically in all areas where the two friendly countries can co-operate, while respecting the principle of sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs. The government of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation will co-operate in the military area, respecting common interests, respecting international law and in line with the principles of the UN Charter, as regards equality of states, territorial integrity and national legislation. Of course, the implementation of this agreement will be taken over by authorised authorities, on the one hand by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other by the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Authorised bodies shall be tasked with educating a joint working group in order to implement this Agreement more effectively, as well as to identify concrete activities. What is important in this Agreement is that it will not exchange classified information and official information with limited access. In addition, none of the States in this Agreement may subscribe to the data of the third party without written consent or written consent of the other Party. Since Serbia's defence ministry's financial plan provides for the funds needed to implement this agreement, additional funding is not needed. I think the vote for this set of laws and for this draft law on military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation will advance the significant relations of these two countries and I therefore call on all parliamentary groups to support this set of laws in the voting day. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3855	Thank you. The word is Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3856	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the signing of these agreements in the area of defence aims to improve military co-operation, i.e. the establishment of forms, procedures, principles that will determine them. The aim is, of course, to modernise Serbia's military, as well as to improve its functional and operational capacities. Co-operation will develop and provide for an exchange of experiences related to experience gained through participation in multinational operations or experience related to security and operational aspects of EU accession. The agreements also envision participation in various seminars, military exercises, conventions. Activities in the area of military-economic co-operation, in the area of military-medical and military-educated co-operation, are also foreseen. When it comes to education, I would like to refer Italy to as an example, where 59 members of the Ministry of Defence or the Serbian Army have participated in training and education at higher education institutions in Italy since 2005. This practice wants to continue when it comes to Italy and Russia, but also to other countries. Also, co-operation related to the military-medical segment provides for the exchange of doctors. I don't even have to mention how important it is to gain experience and perfecting doctors in these processes. Co-operation in the area of defence has been developed and is on the rise, but these agreements are deepening and strengthening. Serbia's signing these agreements shows it wants to take over its international commitments, shows it wants to contribute to a very important segment, which is preserving peace and security in the world. This wants to prove and participate in peacekeeping missions, where it sends and employs its military capacities and represents its military, but ultimately, its country, in the best possible light and deepens bilateral co-operation. In the voting day, I will, of course, support the proposals of these agreements and call on the other MPs to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3857	Thank you. The word is Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3858	Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues, as Col. Chikiriz said for a little while there are days when it is truly a pleasure to be an MP, one of those days, I can freely say, given that I have been here in parliament for many years, it is this day when our parliament is able to ratify several agreements from the military area that will undoubtedly contribute to the improvement of our army's situation in general, and especially the military-industry complex, which, in the previous period, shared the fate of Serbia's complete economy, has experienced very difficult days. We're having a hard time. So, it is an honor and pleasure for me today as a representative of the Socialist Movement, as an MP for the Socialist Movement, to express my position on several agreements in the field of military-technical co-operation with countries that are today truly the most important and relevant factors on the international-political scene and on the international security scene. When I say this, I particularly highlight the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military co-operation, which, after being informed, is almost 20 years of non-signature of any agreement, the first in that area and which will contribute to the real deepening and strengthening of the unbreakable links between Russia and Serbia, between our two friendly peoples, and especially between our two armies that have absolutely many touch points and absolutely many reasons to extend and deepen their cooperation. We were able to hear a little bit in parliament from some members of the parliamentary groups whose representatives today or at this point I can't see, but not one in the O.R., regretfully I have to say, it's not an opposition, it's an unserious exercise of parliamentary function, we could hear that with ridicule talking about the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3859	I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. It's the right thing to do. Do not comment on the behaviour of other Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3860	It is also my right to comment that the MPs who have used their right to do so are not here today, although they are very little...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3861	Get to the point, please, just so we don't cause replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3862	The topic is a military technical agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, about which someone spoke with a mockery for a moment. Unfortunately, the mockery is also about the condition in which our army is presently in place. Without demeaning anyone's work, it's really uncritical to look at the situation in which the military is in today's situation, and while not looking at their personal role in all this and my personal responsibility is irresponsible, it's irresponsible, it's very wrong, which doesn't lead to anything, but what we do, each of us does what he knows best and can do and the public will judge his work and the work of all of us. Let us return to that aspect of the Agreement on military co-operation between the two friendly countries, since I am a personal member of the International Fund Management Board of Orthodox countries' unity, with full right I can also say that these unbreakable links in the field of religion, in the area of tradition, in the area of culture, should be extended by such agreements, including other agreements and military ones. I'm not putting myself in a rusofile or a Russianophobe. I think I'm one of the real people. I believe that such a policy, reality policy is the only option at this time when we need to take a critical look at the world that surrounds us and when we need to develop parallel good relationships with both the East and the West, and in all this respect the new political reality, the new security reality that exists today in the world. This is why it is very important today that after 20 years of signing the last military co-operation agreement between Serbia and Russia, respecting Russia's new political reality and power under President Vladimir Putin's leadership, we have experienced a real rebirth in all areas and also in the military area, very significantly to speed up our mutual co-operation so that on this security basis we can take advantage of some opportunities and some potentials that will be opened in other areas, not to mention the energy aspect of this agreement. Since Russia recently signed an energy agreement worth over $400 billion with China, given that Russia is a financier and that it will build a very important energy project that will flow through and through our country, which is the South Stream and we must look at this aspect, so it is very favourable and very good that such an agreement, which we are going to have today, is ratified these days. In the voting day, it also strengthens this form of co-operation. Even a great German who understood the new reality, today adopted or today in its practice, has a new term in its own language that can be translated by those who understand Russia, Russland verstehen. Those who understand Russia in Germany have respectfully, referring to Russian interests accepted reality and did not want to enter any form of conflict with the potentially greatest force in Europe, and perhaps in the world. They didn't want to fall for some of the traps that were set before them and they realized reality, they understood and understood Russia. If so, it shows that here and in Serbia there are those who have begun to understand Russia, so let's say, one of those who have most proclaimed themselves and promoted themselves as critics of what Russia is doing, Mladjan Dinkic has understood Russia today and has been employed in "Sberbanci". Unfortunately, this has beheaded his first associates to come to terms with Serbia headlessly, they do not know where, they do not understand Russia, they do not understand the new political reality, so it happens that individuals such as some president of the municipality of Dimitrovgrad are going to blame MPs from this parliament for kidnapping their councillors, which I rarely experienced in my political career yesterday without anyone reacting. But let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3863	You knew I'd interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3864	Yeah, so I beat you to it. So, to get back on the subject, it's really a good example of co-operation between the Russian government and our government, but as I've already pointed out, our policy is not based solely on co-operation with one world force, our security foreign policy is based on co-operation with everyone. In that sense, we will not deny it, nor belittle the influence of the National Guard of Ohio, which has, for example, contributed to rebuilding some of the facilities in Serbia, nor will we abandon co-operation with these structures from the world. Once again, with the desire to organise Serbia as much as possible in a way that has been reorganised by Russia, I personally, the Socialist Movement and the SNS parliamentary club will vote in favour of this proposed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3865	Thank you. Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3866	Thank you. Of course I'm going to vote for this bill of law or whatever they're called, because it's perfectly natural for the military to have their own co-operation with other countries, and since I can see it was the least of the issues of me being a little bit in that manner. Of course, that is, the continuation of the policy that began to take place in this country after 5 October 2000 and I am very glad that you noticed it from some SPS colleagues, I hope some others. It was a normal healthy policy that had great opponents at the time, a lot of ugly words were suggested to participate in peacekeeping missions, to enter the Partnership for Peace, to make any co-operation with anyone who wasn't allegedly a brotherly or friendly country. It is very good that this process of change, of memory, of understanding the new political reality has come to the conclusion that today in parliament we really do not have any party that is against it. That is not the reason for any great joy nor for the liquefying of any of us who have begun that policy, or those who have carried it out to this day. It's just a normal thing. I think that's good, that even in other areas like this in the field of military diplomacy, or military co-operation, we accept some normal values that are what they are in the entire globe of the Earth, and there's no need to look for some special way of being special at all because it's never done us any good. Of course it's a good thing that visas are lifted for the holders of diplomatic and official passports, and with the Emirates, I don't believe there's going to be any major exchanges of travel, but of course that's good news. What is not good and what I think is one newspaper that should be seen today in parliament, and as far as the military is concerned, it is the front page of a daily newspaper, which reads: "Now they are listening to them too". There is talk of listening from the US Prime Minister and foreign minister, but what is the problem and is related to this point, it says that it claims to be a source of "Blic" from military security. It's the first time, I don't know if it's true, of course, it's the first time you've mentioned any source of military security. We witnessed years ago, even today, that from the BIA, from the police, it leaks like a hollow sherpa, but never, as far as I remember, and God knows I'm following that area. It's been a long time since anyone mentioned military security as a source for any "said-out" information. That's why I'm sure the minister, along with his associates, will do everything to find out through an internal analysis and investigation if there's anything that's true and that of course you're responsible for it. And finally, around these batteries. I really hope that the batteries that I've heard are worth about 80,000 euros we need to get from someone, it's unserious for an army, that their battle-readiness builds on presents, even if they came from the most friendly country. There are a lot of other things that someone might give us, but I think that without evil intentions I say, I think that if the problem is procedure, because I don't believe that the problem is 80,000 euros. If the problem is procedures, the procedure should be changed so that because of two batteries that are insignificantly worth questioning the safety of our sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3867	Does anyone else in Section 96 want to come in and use their rights? Nobody. I give my word, I can say final, Minister Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3868	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you're right, the Serbian Army is not the problem of the 87,000 euros. We have them planned in our public procurement plan for 2014 and we have them in the financial plan as well. However, the procedures we also have by the Russian Federation and in our legislation are a problem and they take a very long time, and the procedure in the “Robroronexport” itself is such that we cannot get it for the next three to four months. In order for us to skip all these procedures, I believe that what the Russian Federation Secretary of Defense did to their president, as one great friendly gesture. It's not even about finances that I just think it's their big gesture and that what we're building with all our partners in the world and, of course, with the Russian Federation is a good friendly relationship and co-operation between the two armies. As for what you said today that the daily list is also listed, Vitali Curkin said almost that they are listening to it, so it is no wonder that such information is coming out in our daily papers, and I will not argue that it is true, and it is not about people who are now in the VBA, it is about people who until recently, by 2012, were directors of some agencies who unfortunately began to deal with and continue to do such work, and above all, giving information to journalists who are often unverified. We're absolutely following all this, who's the one who's trying so hard to keep it steady and warm a little bit with some information that's connected to the military and stuff. I'm asking you not to go out for anything else and go deeper into the analysis of all this. In any case, I am very pleased, for the second time all the laws that the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are proposing are given one absolute agreement of all parliamentary groups, so that, for me, as defence minister, it is very important and very important, and of course for the Serbian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-02-0.u3869	Thank you. I thank Minister Bratislava Gasic. I am concluding a joint single search with the proposals for the law in points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. Minister, you've done your part of the work. Thank you. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint single search on the motions for decisions under points 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 192 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately, for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 157(2), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to elect members of the Commission to control the execution of criminal sanctions; a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovec; a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in international parliamentary institutions and a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in international parliamentary institutions. Does the Proposer or the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. People's MPs? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I am concluding a joint single search on the motions for decisions under items 11 to 14 of the agenda. I'd also like to inform you that the session is being held tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. It's got to be 24 hours since the amendment debate, and we have prior notice and questions, so the session is at 12:30. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Kotriæ.
