ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-16-1.u3	The verification committee found that the report of the Republic Election Commission was in agreement with the assurances of all 250 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-16-1.u4	Thank you. According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and of Members of Parliament 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of a report by the Commission to establish the consent of the Parliament of People's Parliament to the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, confirming the mandate of all MPs. Since the mandate of all MPs has been confirmed, two-thirds of the Members of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, has been established. Please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to the deputy secretary general, Mr. Radoslav Vujovic, through the service of the Protocol of the National Assembly. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. This concludes the session of the National Assembly for the day. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Today we schedule that it will be held on April 23rd at 10:00 p.m. If there are any changes, you will be notified in good time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue the work of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I invite you to pay our respects to the late MP, Dr Jovan Krkobabic, Deputy Prime Minister and President of the United Pensions of Serbia. Praise him. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 165 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly at the First Session of the National Assembly exists if most of the national MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 202 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 22. The Rules of Procedure, as set up by the following parliamentary groups: MP of the Serbian Progressive Party - the President of the Parliamentary Group was appointed by the MP Zoran Babic, and his deputy MP, Maja Gojković; the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) – the MP of the Parliament was appointed by the MP, Dr Dijan Vukomanovic, and his deputy MP, Mr Djordža Milicevic; the Democratic Party of the Democratic Party – sent by the Parliament of the Group of the Parliament – the MP Dragan Djilas, and his deputy MP, Natasaša Vučković; the MP group BORIS TADić – the New Democratic Party of Serbia, the Joint Group of Serbia, the Green Serb Group – was sent by the MP, and the deputy MP for his deputy member of the group, Mr. Miražak Vović, Mr. Dr. Janko Vajnićović, the group of his group of Serbians (S. We continue to work on the agenda and move on to the 2nd item of the agenda – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY. I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal from the National Assembly president. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you have seen, the National Assembly Speaker, Maja Gojkovic, was elected from the election list ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – THE FUTURE IN WHICH WE BELIEVE (Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Socialist Movement). I remind you, according to Article 9, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposing representative, can explain the proposal. Does the proposing representative want to explain the candidate's proposal for National Assembly President? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
