ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović and Miletic Mihajlovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, therefore, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for emergency acts, a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, a proposal for a merger of discussions and a proposal to conduct a search in particular, immediately following the completion of the principled review of the draft law. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 27 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 139 MPs, against – no one with abstention – voted 26 MPs out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the second amendment to the Treaty on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETTSAT), which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm sorry, there's something wrong with the system. Please draw your cards again, Meso Omerovic, all show me. We have to repeat the vote, the mistake. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 57 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – one, was voted by 106 MPs of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 16 MPs, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 MPs out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The DS parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision and the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – no one with abstention – there are four of the total 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 158 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – 11 abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 168 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Real Estate Transport Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, v – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that the draft decision on the appointment of the president and vice-president of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine of the present 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. A group of 128 MPs proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 19 of the present 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the proposed agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Zoran Zivkovic and I suggest that the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly be included and... (Disputed speech by MP Vladimir Pavicevic due to power failure. We ran out of electricity in the congregation. I don't know what to do. Dear President of the National Assembly, since we don't see the time, please tell me if I can speak for more than three minutes right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12665	Sit down, MP. Something's not working. Now try signing up for a word. You may proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable National Assembly President, Zoran Zivkovic and I have proposed to include in the agenda of the Seventh Session of the Second Regular Session of our National Assembly the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which we submitted in September of the month. I remind the MPs that this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, we want academic integrity to be included in the Law on Higher Education in Article 4 of that Law, as one of the principles on which a higher education system is based in Serbia. It's kind of an amendment to the Higher Education Act. In the second point, we propose to also explain in this law what this principle of academic integrity is based on. I remind all the MPs here that the reason for this proposal to put themselves on the agenda today was one serious doubt about the fact that the interior minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarised the parts of his doctoral dissertation, which was repeatedly written by our young scientists and researchers who have confessed in the world and not only that they wrote about the existence and that there were still serious doubts, but that we here in this Assembly at the Educational Committee found that the commission that evaluated this doctorate was not qualified to assess Mr Stefanovic's doctoral dissertation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12667	Ambassador, you abuse an institution of reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12668	Dear President of the Assembly, let me tell you, I'm talking about a cause for our initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12669	Explain the law. It's not an initiative. It's a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12670	Yeah, but in the bill of law, what do we want? To make academic honesty one of the basic principles of our higher education system. The reason for that was a situation where some high-ranking officials violated the principle of academic integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12671	Thank you. We started at two minutes, now it's five minutes and eight seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12672	We started at three, the Honorable President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12673	We've been through two, it's five minutes and 15 seconds. I didn't deny you. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. The system's not working. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] We're working with the aggregates, but there may be another interruption. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against those who are abstentions, who has not voted – 57 MPs from the 60 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: No voting quorum. I ask the MPs to come into the O.R. and get to work. Please determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for further work of the National Assembly. We return to the vote on the proposal of MPs Zorana Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Higher Education Act. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 126 MPs of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Movements; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health Insurance and the Proposal for a Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of Health; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – 11, abstention – one, did not vote – four MPs from the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 157(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the examination be carried out in particular on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of Immobilities Act immediately following the completion of the principled examination of those draft laws. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – nine, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 13 MPs from a total of 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, the proposal for a merger of the debate on the proposal to conduct the search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled examination of the draft law, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, the nine, the abstentions, there is no, no vote – seven MPs from the total of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. I ask the service of the National Assembly to make up a consolidated text of the agenda of the session and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of immovableity Act; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act; 4. Proposal for a bill on health documentation and records in the field of health care; 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a decision appointing the President and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association; and 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12675	Dear President, Article 86 of Position 4 states that the President of the National Assembly may postpone the session, that is, the day of the start of the session of the National Assembly. Not knowing of these problems that we had at the beginning of work today, our parliamentary group has sent a request to you, as we can only do so, to postpone today's start of work of the National Assembly, namely the debate on the 1st and 2nd agenda, as the solution that has been produced by a strike of lawyers in Serbia has been under discussion for almost two months. At the moment when the talks between the minister and the lawyer are held, we need to discuss one problem, solve a problem that is not a fruit of agreement between the two sides, and we find it pointless today to discuss something that will not lead to a solution, that in a few days or weeks we will have to sit here and discuss the same laws again. We do not see the purpose of having today's debate on these two points and we ask you once again to delay the start of the debate on these two points of the agenda in order to make an agreement and then through the amendments to the laws we have implemented and to solve a major problem that has blocked Serbia's judiciary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12676	I thank you, MP. Yes, the session was called a few days ago, but now the Assembly, therefore by its vote, confirmed by most votes the agenda which was proposed, of course and added some more agenda points, and thus gave confirmation that the urgency of the procedure is necessary at these points of the agenda during adoption. The second reason was that I took into account that your parliamentary group, i.e. on 7 October, submitted the almost identical text of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Act of immovableity, which, if compared to the Bill, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is incorporated by these very solutions that you have proposed, and I see no reason why they would not discuss today and adopt the bill in which your solutions are incorporated. Thank you. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that in addition to the representative of the promoter Nikola Selakovic, I have called for today's session to be attended by Biljana Pavlovic State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Nela Kuburović, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice at the Ministry of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the proposals for the laws referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I'm asking MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Records and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of Immobilities Act. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic want a word from the minister of justice? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12677	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the beginning of today's united principle debate, I would like to present to you the most important solutions contained in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Immobility, as well as the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and prepared by the Ministry of Justice. As you know, the new Immobility Transport Act was adopted in the National Assembly at the end of August of this year. The reason for the adoption of this law was exclusively its alignment with the provisions of the Law on Public Registration, which was adopted in 2011, and amended and completed in 2013, which began with the application on 1 September 2014. The 2013 amendments to the Public Note Act provide for contracts for the availability of immovable property to be made exclusively in the form of a public notary, for which the assembly is a public notary. Accordingly, such a solution is contained in the new Law on Transport of immovableity. The reason for such a solution is that in an extremely important area, both for citizens and for the economy, the area of real estate transport increases legal certainty. According to the earlier law on real estate transport, a contract transposing property rights to real estate could have made up anyone. By making it mandatory to sign a contract with the court. So, to sign the contractor's notice at the court. In doing so, the court had no obligation to engage in the content of the contract, but only to verify in a separate record whether he had already confirmed the signatures on the contract relating to the same immovableity and that the seller was the same person. Such a solution was deficient from the point of view of legal certainty and often in practice the immovableity contracts were subject to litigation before courts, as well as that foreign Contracting Parties were the most likely to be damaged by immobilisers. Therefore, the Immobility Transport Act introduces the obligation of the form of a public notation for immovable transport contracts. When making up this contract, the public notary is required to examine and verify all documents and facts relating to the immovableity concerned, since the public notation is a public document, as well as the fact that the public notary is responsible for the damage caused to the parties in the performance of its activity. In particular, I would point out that the introduction of a special form for real estate contracts does not constitute a restriction on the freedom to negotiate, as one part of the public sought to represent it. This is for the reason that the public register, in accordance with the provisions of Article 71. The Law on Public Registration is bound by the obligation to write the contents of the statements given before it in a document made up of a faithful record. Therefore, the public notary is required under the Law on Public Registration to faithfully write down the statement made by the parties before it, which absolutely guarantees the freedom to negotiate by a foreign Contracting Party. In addition, in our right there are contracts that are prescribed to be made in a special form in order to be full. This is certainly an example of the Life Support Treaty, which, according to Article 195. The inheritance law must be drawn up in writing and certified by a judge who is obliged to read it to the parties and the maintenance recipient in particular to warn that the property subject to maintenance does not enter into its legacy and that it cannot be settled by the necessary successors, and that if the form of the conclusion of that contract is not respected, such a contract shall be considered void. Analysing the current application of the new Law on Transport of immovableity and the requirements of practice, it has been concluded that it is necessary to approach amendments and additions to that law, in a way that is contained in the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of Immobility. Article 1 The proposal for a law is amended by Article 4. The Immobilisation Act is provided that, in addition to a public notary made up of a public register, the Immobilisation Treaty may be made up of other persons, whether it is lawyers or the parties themselves, by which it must be certified by a public notary in the process of soloisation, in order to obtain from the properties of the private property of a public document. The solemnisation procedure is prescribed in Article 93. Law on public records. In accordance with the provisions of that Article of the Public Note Act, the public notary overturn gives the non-public correction to the legal force of the public document, confirming that the contents of the documents correspond to the will of the parties and that the parties have signed it by hand. The public notifier shall not verify the correctness if the contents of the documents are illegal under the law, if he suspects that its contents are apparent, that they are taken to avoid legal obligations or unlawful damage to third parties. Also, if the public register considers that the party does not have the right to conclude the legal business of the non-public document to be filed on the cover, it is required to warn the parties and bring this warning next to the approved document. I would also point out that according to the provisions of the public note-book tariff, the public notation fee does not amount to the full amount of the tariff, but is 60% of the prize for making up the public record, thus reducing the costs for the parties that make up the real estate transport contract themselves, and opening up the possibility for a lawyer who draws up the contract to properly collect his work for the construction of the real estate contract. Therefore, once again in order to make it clearer, if the public notebook independently draws up a fixed-state transport contract, it charges the full amount of the public note tariff. If an immovableity contract is drawn up by a citizen or a lawyer himself, a public notary in the verification process through soloisation does not charge the full amount of the public note tariff, but only 60% of that amount. Compared to solutions in the countries of the environment, in the countries of the region, it is the lowest amount for soloisation. For the most part, soloisation is charged at 80% of the public record tariff for contract building, which is significantly lower in Serbia and 60%, respectively. The other members of the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Transport of Immobilities Act constitute a alignment with the amendment contained in Article 1 of this Act. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, I would like to point out that, in this proposal, the amendments and amendments to the Law on Transport of Immobilities are mainly contained. In Article 3. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration has been restored from the basic text of Article 82(5), which, in the form of a public note, consists exclusively of other legal transactions and transport contracts, i.e. on the availability of immovable property, but only when it comes to persons who are commercially incompetent. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration also brings some significant newspapers. The provisions of Articles 1 and 2. The draft laws amend the provisions of Articles 16 and 28. The Law on Public Registration, by giving candidates for public notaries the opportunity to compete regardless of their residence at the time of the opening of the competition, with the obligation to change their residence to the day of their appointment in the places for which they are appointed. This specifically means that one candidate who fulfils the conditions to be appointed public notary, and for example lives in Novi Sad, in addition to the planned competition for a public place in Novi Sad, he can compete for the competition in Subotica, Sombor, Vrsac, Ruma, Šapac or Valjev, and be elected where he is really most competitive. This is a solution that will help really many municipalities and cities in Serbia get their public register and that the job that temporary courts are doing takes over to do public notebooks. Article 5 The draft law is complemented by Article 134. The Law on Public Registration by stipulating that public notebooks are obliged to pay 30% of the prize collected without VAT payment at the expense of the RS budget, and that these funds are used to finance the work of courts, which is in line with parallel-law solutions from countries where there is public record work. I stress that such a solution, which defines part of the public register's reward for the work of the courts, goes directly to Serbia's budget, has not been contained in the current public records law solutions. In parallel, we can see that the percentage that the notebook pays directly into the budget is different from its income. It differs from that of a public notary. If we look at one of the maximumist solutions, which is present in French law, where the public register is 80% of the reward in the state budget, 10% in the chamber budget, and only 10% in the chamber, we will conclude that this is a solution that is not suitable for our public notebook's competences for the simple reason that it is in that same state, with which I compared this situation, the public notary at the same time, the parent, the wedding, the divorce, enrollment and writing from the books of the born, dead, married, that he is also a sort of office for quick answers, because when you want to obtain a building permit, you use a permit for a certain object to address the public notary, and as the top of that system in that country, the public notebook is in that country, in this legal system, among other things, and the taxpayer. Therefore, its area of competence is extremely wide, the revenues it generates are extremely high, so it can be defined as 80% that goes into the budget. In line with the competences of our public notebooks, the amount of income exemption that goes directly to the benefit of the state of 30% is considered appropriate. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that, following the debate in the principles and details of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of Immobility and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration be adopted. Finally, I want to look back on something else that is focused on the attention of Serbian citizens, the whole public of Serbia. Such solutions are indeed the maximum rational solutions to requirements that lawyers have pointed out during their 50-day and more than 50-day strike and suspension of work in Serbia. Are these the solutions that the tops of the bar have been looking for? No, I don't. The Supremes of the Bars asked for changes that almost fully reflect the concept of the 2011 law and I will take advantage of the opportunity to look at both the debate and the details of it both in principle and in detail. These are solutions that give opportunity to lawyers who have been engaged solely in contract law. If not, in the meantime, they have become public notaries, to continue to deal with this activity, to earn income from which they can live, and to provide a much higher degree of legal certainty and legal certainty with a public notary. Lawyers and public notebooks aren't, can't and can't be opposing sides. Both of them need Serbian citizens, both of whom need a legal system that seeks better, more perfect and more stable functioning. In the name of that, I invite you to support the vote of these laws after a good and fruitful debate, as it has been each time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12678	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12679	I thank you, President. Dear Ministers, members and representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, are taking part in the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records and the Law on Transport of Movements of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, giving strong support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Vukic in an attempt to finally define the legal framework precisely what has been in the focus of the general public and the public's attention for a long time, and that is the traffic of immobility. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic recently voiced the view that the demands of the lawyer were partly established. This was a clear sign that a legal framework must finally be joined, that the immovableity will be carried out in an efficient manner in accordance with the law and, most importantly, in accordance with the Constitution. What the SPS parliamentary group at this meeting is after, at the same time, asking all MPs, regardless of what political orientation they belong to, to the positional or opposition, is that what we are discussing is exclusively being seen through the prism of the protection of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of legal certainty for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but not only for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but for all potential investors who want to invest in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the provisions of the Law on Lawyers must, above all, be brought into line with the provisions of the Constitution, that they must comply with the provisions of the Law on Liabilities and, of course, with the provisions of the Law on Lawyership. What is particularly to insist on is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in this direction is given support to the Government, recognized something that is logical and what is necessary for the state of Serbia, and also for each state-of-the-art, is that in one of the pillars of the government, a particular judiciary, there is also a need for a lawyer, which, by the way, is a constitutional category, and a public notation that is not covered by the Constitution as an institution. The lawyer represents not only an esnaf, but an institution guaranteed by the Constitution by legal aid providers. Public notebooks do not and do not have the Constitution, but it is doubtless necessary under the Law on Public Registration in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, especially given the fact that complete outsider material, especially outsider proceedings, is transferred to public notebooks under the law and courts. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group will never support the rivalry between lawyers on the one hand and public notebooks on the other, because such rivalry in this process is not acceptable. Or rather, he's inadmissible. What the SPS parliamentary group sees as the primary objective of our work today and as one of the most important political messages, which should be addressed to citizens of the Republic of Serbia from this session, is that we must fight for the rule of law and for the legal certainty of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are potential entrants in immovableity, i.e. potential participants in legal affairs that have access to immovable property for the subject. In this direction, the SPS parliamentary group will present proposals through me today as an authorised representative, and later in the debate in particular, which I believe can contribute to the fact that this amendment and supplementation of the Law on Public Records, as well as the amendment and addition of the Law on Transport of Immobility, is being raised to an even greater level of quality. In this regard, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments, which I believe, respected ministers, that on your part will be carefully analysed and that these amendments will be respected because, in the spirit of what I will once again point out, the SPS parliamentary group considers to be a crucial objective, which is to achieve legal certainty and to ensure the rule of law. We're starting with that, when we're talking about citizens, because everything we do here we have to do in the interest of citizens, what is the fundamental right of citizens when it comes to the laws we're discussing today. The elemental right of citizens is that on the basis of their free will or, as we lawyers say, autonomys of will can conclude fixed-state contracts, which are in practice in most cases purchase contracts and possible gift contracts. From this right as a elemental right, citizens as entrants in the transport of immovable property also exercise other rights which no doubt must be denied to the citizens. One of these rights is that the agreement on the movement of the immovableity of the form in writing, and the other is the right to have a completely free choice of citizens who will be entrusted with the creation of an immovable transport contract, whether they will entrust it to a public notary, a lawyer, a mediator, a legal aid service, a legal clinic or any other form that implies the institution of the legal aid provider. That is why we, in the SPS parliamentary group, consider the ultimate positive tendency to, in whole, repeat, eliminate the exclusiveity of the public notary to make up contracts, especially when it comes to real estate contracts. For the sake of the citizens, dear ministers, I'll give an example, the illustration works. I took these examples from two cities, Užica and Smederev. These are cities that have about 100,000 inhabitants, and up to 20,000 real estate contracts are certified annually. We can imagine then what the number of contracts that were certified in courts is, and when I talk about overtures, I'm talking about the court orders of the contract, what the number of contracts was in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade with close to two million inhabitants. No doubt greater, and much greater, given the fact that 100% of such contracts are guaranteed through the legalisation of the contract, i.e. the legalisation of the contract's signature. That is why it was absolutely incomprehensible that in practice a law that took away the right of other legal aid providers, I will not constantly apostrophe lawyers because it is not the aim of my parliamentary group, but of all kinds of legal aid providers, including citizens themselves, who alone and self-initiatively can form such contracts. However, these rights are not the only rights that must be guaranteed to citizens of the Republic of Serbia as potential entrants of immovable traffic, but there are other rights that must also be absolutely guaranteed, i.e. absolutely guaranteed, and the two such rights, which can be accumulated in one, are exclusively free choice, exclusively free determination of each citizen to determine whether the immovable transport contract, which he has made in writing, authenticated or confirmed. It's two completely different legal institutes. It is also a legal theory, as well as legal practice, especially judicial practice, of two completely different categories. The contract verification implies a simple and simple overture of the contractor's signature on the contract. It's called legalization. For a large number of contractors, the maximum number of signatories on the contract is undoubtedly sufficient in terms of legalisation, such as form or form, not only of contracts, but of entering a contract in legal traffic, that, on the basis of legalisation, the party's signatures exercise other rights. One of these rights is the entry of property into the register of the Office of the Immobility Catastrophe. I would like to remind you that the State Prime Minister and Catastro Act does not require the confirmation of the contract, but is sufficient only to verify the signature of the contractor on the contract so that the holder of the property rights under the contract can enroll that right of property in the Real Estate Catastrophe Office. What the courts have been doing so far, in so many of the cases that I have mentioned, in the future, we are confident that public notebooks will work. I believe that in public I have created a wrong, distorted picture or misunderstanding of what is solemnisation, i.e. confirmation of the contract, and that is what I do, and my MP group of the SPS agrees in your opening statement, that the solemnized may be those contracts that involve a special process of confirmation, which implies a specific control of the contract and which implies a premonition of the consequences of such a contract. So far, the courts have confirmed or solemnized not only how you cited a life support agreement, where the autonomy of will is represented by the fact that the recipient of maintenance highlights the desire for the provider to provide care, assistance, care and other care, after his death, to leave in his complete or part of the property he has been holding as the owner. At the time, the court had indeed scheduled the hearings, called the parties, presented the parties as a result of such a contract, of course previously read the contract. If there are certain failures referred to the removal of these gaps and ultimately confirmed or solemned the life support contract. But it's not the only contract, it's a soloized, let's say, asset-sharing contract for the life of the leaver. Each of us has the right to decide for his life to distribute his property to his heirs, his descendants, and that contract is also confirmed in the same way and by the same principle. However, we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that both of these rights and the right to legalisation, as an over-signature and the right to solemnisation, must be guaranteed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and there must be no discrimination in this direction because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes as a guarantee of a ban on discrimination. In view of the fact that a large number of citizens, as potential entrants in the transport of immovableity, are defined for legalization or for signing, it is then a right which the law should clearly specify and clearly define. The question arises what if, in a situation where a citizen speaks to a lawyer, or to another legal aid provider, to whom he makes up for his service, the corresponding tariff prescribed by the law, after which he carries out soloisation by paying that same fee again. We believe that this burden of citizens should not exist and we believe that in this situation, the tariffs of the public notary of the signature must be appropriated and must continue through the practice that the courts had previously done. In the end, there are a large number of investors who hire their lawyer offices or law offices in Serbia, as in most cases there were in Belgrade, where legalisation is sought, i.e. over the signing of the contract, but not soloisation. These two forms of contract, these two forms of contract, must be equally and evenly made possible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without any favouring either in favour of legalisation or in favour of soloisation, but only on the basis of free choice, free will of the contractors. We hope that this kind of suggestion also makes sense, because otherwise, it would kind of come up with the objective of the law. There is a danger of restoring the exclusiveness of a public notary or a public notary, and therefore the SPS parliamentary group supports that, on the basis of these two rights, the right to the choice of citizens, whether they will seek over the signature or ask for confirmation of the contract, that choice is accepted, guaranteed and realised. For the purpose of informing citizens, solemnisation is necessary in certain situations where intervention by a state authority is necessary, say the court, any of the potential entrants in the traffic of immovableity that has a legal interest can require confirmation or solemnisation and, in this direction, the public notary must take whatever is prescribed by law to ensure that such legal work, or contract, is solemnized. As is the case with certain situations involving housing loans or contracts that we discussed. Something we must not forget is the responsibility of both lawyers and public notebooks. Public notebooks correspond to the parties, with their entire assets for the adverse consequences that could be done to the parties, by their unconscious work. To be honest, we don't have a property map of public notebooks, we don't know what property they have. On the other hand, lawyers are responsible for the adverse consequences that would potentially cause citizens on the basis of insurance and compulsory insurance for all the damages that are done in such situations. Therefore, the responsibility of both types of legal aid providers does not exist suspiciously, but there are other control mechanisms for such contracts. The tax administration controls the immovable transport contracts only in respect of that part of the mandatory element of the contract, in accordance with the provisions of the Liabilities Act, which indicates a purchase price. The tax administration will intervene and establish a tax liability based on the actual market value of the immovable property that is the subject of that contract. What seems to us is the fact that there is a justification that all measures must be taken to prevent abuse in terms of multiple conclusion of the contract, because we have recently witnessed that one seller sold the same property several times, that the immovableity was resold and that in this way the damage was done to the citizens. I must remind myself that since 2010, a system has been introduced in courts and this centralized system, a centralized database that Libra has introduced where since 2010, one of the same immovableities of resales can no longer happen, i.e. control is being carried out. This is argued and factually, exactly, and what is in practice in the opening statement. In the end, what I think is inescapably necessary is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is non-substantiating and does not expose subjectivity to anyone, to lawyers or public notebooks. That's not what my SPS parliamentary group does either. What I said about the rivalry between lawyers and public notebooks not being allowed to exist, it's a fact and it can't exist. On the other hand, what is very important is that citizens know that the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want the abolition of lawyerry, as neither does the lawyer want to destabilise the state foundations, i.e. the legal structure of the Republic of Serbia. Both lawyers and public records and other legal aid providers have only one objective and they must work to that end, which is legal certainty and the rule of law again. I therefore believe that the reasons that I have presented are sufficient for you to accept the amendments we have proposed, as well as suggestions and suggestions, as extremely well-intentioned, which we have presented, with respect and understanding. Also, the SPS parliamentary group believes that it cannot be put into a situation that the state apparatus does not function for so long, that we cannot in any case be brought into a situation of paralysing the system of government, in this case, one of the pillars of power, which is the judiciary, and that the state in that direction must react, one of the real reactions is exactly the support of the laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12680	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12681	I'm finishing up, supporting the laws that we support as part of this discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12682	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12683	and as part of what was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12684	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12685	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have really carefully and carefully followed the presentation of my esteemed colleague, MP Neda Jovanovic, and I would like to point out a few moments which are still a public word, so I should refer to them. In a very content presentation, counterpart Jovanovic provided information regarding the towns of Užica and Smederevo, which have up to 100,000 inhabitants. Both cities are cities where we still don't have a public register, but it provided information that, for example, in Uzic, 20,000 real estate contracts are certified annually. The data is not for a while, but extremely incorrect. I believe you didn't make that mistake on purpose. I'll tell you how and why. I don't have any specific information for Užice, but I do have some information for the township of Zemun. The city municipality of Zemun has about 162,000 voters and some 200,000 inhabitants are estimated. In the city municipality of Zemun I have data from the Third General Court for 2014, in two months, from a different period of the year. One is March 2014, the second is June 2014. In March of the 3rd basic court for the municipality of Zemun, the total certified signatures on immovable transport contracts are 155, and for June, that figure is 226. When you look at it on an annual level for a population of 200,000 people, you'll find that it's about 2,000 real estate contracts somewhere. I'm guessing your number concerned the total number of overs that are court records, not just the clearance of the real estate contracts. However, what concerns here, I will tie it to the second part of your discussion, let's say, for that month March and the month of June in the area of the Third General Court of Zemun, of 155 contracts certified in March, only 15 contracts have the seal of a lawyer. Of 155, only 15 bear the seal of the lawyer who put the contract together. In June of the 226 contract, only 19 contracts bear the seal of the lawyer who made the contract. I don't want to argue about it, you're a good lawyer, you're a good lawyer, you're an excellent lawyer, and you know what I wanted to say. When it comes to the other parts that you pointed out in your address, it is not true that through soloisation, and I explained it well in the opening statement, that the citizen is paying the same tax again. Let me do it one more time. So he pays one amount when he draws up a contract for him a public notebook. Let's symbolically plead, if that amount is 1,000 dinars, and the contract is only a public notary, the citizen pays him 1,200 dinars, it's a reward to the notebook, plus VAT. If he goes to a lawyer, then a lawyer draws up a contract, and with that contract, the contractors or the lawyer go to the public register, he doesn't pay the 1,000 notes, he pays the notary 600 dinars. Now let's clarify to the citizens a legal action that sounds completely foreign to them. What does solemnization mean? What is it about turning a private ID into a public document? Here's a specific example. Let's say Mr. Jovanovic and I are trading one apartment in Belgrade, and we're doing it five months ago. There are no public notebooks in Serbia then. The two of us go to our lawyer friend who we both trust, he puts together a contract, we go to court with that contract, the court finds that it is Nedjo Jovanovic, on the one hand, as a buyer, that it is Nikola Selakovic, on the other hand, as a seller, determines our identity on the basis of personal documents and confirms our signatures. For example, Mr. Jovanovic wants to enter the apartment I sold him, after five days, after entering the property, he goes to Uzice to bring his personal belongings to move, returns after five days and finds a Miku Mikic in that apartment. What's at his disposal five months ago when there's no public record? He goes to court, file charges, file a lawsuit, waits for a provisional measure and waits according to the Serbian bang, 12, 24, 36 months or more to come to the apartment he bought. Five months later, you have a public notebook in Serbia. We can go back to our lawyers after these changes are passed, if the law is amended like this. The lawyer can draw up a contract, the public notary soloizes it. It's made by a private ID. The public-book record isn't just public, it's an executive ID. If counterpart Jovanovic finds himself in the same situation that someone moved into his apartment in the meantime, does he go to court, file a lawsuit, is he waiting with 30, 50 or 12 months to close the case? No, I don't. He's got a public ID that's been executed, and she can go to the police, the police can get to that apartment. That person who entered the apartment illegally ordered eviction and he could enter his apartment within the shortest time possible. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a public executive. If someone can tell me that it's better to verify two signatures, and then in the event of a dispute to get into a lawsuit and lead that lawsuit for months or years, than to have a public executive that can be done within one, two or three days, it would be the same thing as if someone were to convince me that I should go from Belgrade to Novi Sad to put up the tracks and I'm going on them rather than get in my car and get to the desired place within 60 minutes. This is really about the tectonic change in the functioning of a single country's legal system. That means solemnization. The measure and the cadastre Act, he says, requires a form prescribed by another law, so if the Realty Transport Act is prescribed that an immovableity contract drawn up by a lawyer and certified by a public notary through a soloisation or exclusively drawn up by a public notary, but it has the power of a public document, if prescribed by the Immobility Transport Act, the Immobilization and Cataster Act is called upon by that law. There's something else I have to notice. The public notebook must not receive any money. A public notebook can pay money for a favor it provides only two ways to receive it. One is a payment on the bill, which he delivers a payment card to prove he made that payment. The second is by electronic means via an electronic terminal located in his public-book office. Done money - no. We have, after two months of functioning of the public register, one push on the tax administration button a copy of all the incomes of public notebooks and taxes they pay. This is a system that guarantees, by its degree of order, the legality of legal traffic and payment traffic in public notebooks. Why do I mention this? Because one day I want everything in Serbia to work in this way, including judicial professions. What's not in the public notebook, and why is he rebelling? You know, I have a lot of lawyers. I suppose you do, too, and you're a lawyer yourself. One of the things that my friends are lawyers to me, and also the lawyers I've been having conversations with about overcoming the problems that have arisen by stopping work, was – I don't want anyone getting into the contract that I put together. Wait, if it's a public document, why can't anyone enter that contract? What's in that contract? Could he be hiding, say, the value of legal work? We had a big problem in our courts while there was only legalization, or over identity. That problem was in the next one. The court notifies the contract, does not enter into the purchase price and contract content at all, and the price of the court fee for the overu was determined according to the price of the legal transaction referred to in the contract. We were able to go, say, to court then, close the contract on the sale of the apartment in Vračar, a 50 square apartment at the cost of 25,000 euros. I don't know if there's anyone in this room that can believe that you can buy an apartment at 500 euros per square square? On Vrakar, you almost have no area in which the price of apartment per square is below 1,200, 1,300 euros, in dinar equivalent. Did the coroner check that price? Of course not. The price is 25,000 euros, but 250,000 euros if it is in a good zone in Vrakar. Why didn't the court's affidavit do that? Because a court notifier has a medium or basic expertise, because it was not his duty to do so. In such a system, you could have led to such a conclusion of the contract being one of the best and most efficient machines for money laundering, without any problems, with all the government stamps on the signatures of the contractors. One important thing I would like to mention once again - the 2011 Public Note Act has in no way defined the state's income from the work of the public notebook. These amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration introduces this and the State will for the first time, without taking responsibility, without any direct action in this area, collect income from the work of the public notary. It's a big deal and that income goes directly to the courts, or the judiciary, and I think it's a good thing. When you add 20% of VAT, 30% of the untaxed part of the prize, you'll get the result that, compared to what's paid to the public register, it's 41.6%. That's how much goes to the state. It's a big deal. The state gets that, the responsibility is borne by a public notebook. The public notation chamber has concluded the insurance agreement. You can always check that out. The minimum amount was on the record of 80,000 euros, with the intention of increasing and I think it's a system that basically has a good starting point to succeed. Whether he will succeed, it is under question and depends on our activity as a state. Just once again, what you said, as I said, the public notebook and the lawyer are not opposing sides. Eighty percent of public records, first-named, were people who were lawyers until two months ago. These are the people who were in the same frat with the lawyers until yesterday. We have another problem, and I am convinced that in some future, much more studio and better, in terms of more content, we will discuss the following in the amendments to the Public Note Act. There are two problems. Public notebooks are extremely low. Even when the number provided for by the Interim Regulation of 371, and there are few, because the legislator has extremely high set that limit for a notebook to come to 25,000 inhabitants. My opinion is that the real relationship is a notebook of 15,000 inhabitants. Let's fill in this number first. On the one hand, the problem is, the notebook is small. On the other hand, the problem is that we have an extremely large lawyer because, unfortunately, the last 25 years have been a social valve for failed social enterprises, where lawyers have left legal services in law enforcement. Anyone who has escaped from Krajina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija with an unfortunate attack of war circumstances, where did he go? He went to law school. Mr. Jovanovic probably knows the information I'm about to say. Here, we were talking about Uzic City. In 1991, Užice had 19 lawyers. Today, the City of Uzice has 86 lawyers. Look at Belgrade. In the 1990s, the city of Belgrade had up to 500 lawyers. There are over 4,000 lawyers today. Their cake has dropped, but the number of mouths they eat has grown. We're not importing notebooks. These are the people who are lawyers, living in the Republic of Serbia, who are in law today, in court, in the prosecution, who, gaining conditions to be appointed as notebooks, will turn them into notebooks. At the last test period conducted in October of the month, when it applied most since 2012, the most lawyers were lawyers. Believe me, there was even the President of the Bar Associations who passed the public record exam. I'm closing up. I did give myself a little longer chance to say that I would say less in the next session, but what I said at the beginning, I say again. The notebook and the lawyer are not opposing sides. A notary and a lawyer must co-operate, and Serbia needs a public records system. I'll name one absurd. If the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija have organised a public record service and Serbia is the only territory that did not have public records throughout the Balkans until two months ago, then it is an alarming enough fact to indicate how much this judicial profession of Serbia, Serbian citizens need to establish legal certainty in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12686	I thank Minister Selakovic. Mr. Jovanovic, on what grounds should I give you my word? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: It is not a replica. I'm reporting for one fact that's been made in terms of data. Mr. Jovanovic, I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12687	Then I'm calling for a replica, just for a little while to explain for the citizens. So, if the information that I've presented is incorrect, then I'm going to publicly apologize for getting that information from the court's credentials. If this information is incorrect, it was not a product of anything that implies my intention to use it as an incorrect, but only one good intention to point to the actual state. If I'm the actual state that it's 18,000 signatures, it's 18,000 signatures. I don't mind if it's true and it's probably true. It is also doubtless true that there are a large number of contracts that no doubt concluded by 2010 on a large scale and slightly less since 2010, as there has been a decline in immovable traffic. The last thing I want to run out of is, since in most parts we can agree, soloisation, as a form of contract, is necessary. I was only talking about legalization, like the form of a contract that was defined by law and which as such should be present, nothing more. In the other part, we could discuss in particular, and I thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12688	Thank you. The word is made by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, a respected guest from the Ministry of Justice, I believe that he is a recently injured member of 108. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic, in which paragraph 1 states - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, is now yours. I think two things were problematic here now. First, when the minister calls to answer the MP's question, he speaks 20 minutes each. On what basis can ministers from this government speak so much time, the Honorable Chairman? Another thing, Mr. Jovanovic has now reported to be replicating Mr. Selakovic. I've appeared several times on the same basis, and you've always told me I don't have the right to a replica. Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you that if you apply one criterion to MPs of the opposition, which means they do not have the right to replicate after the minister in the government answers an MP's question, then you apply the same criterion to MPs who are MPs of the ruling coalition, in this case we have an example of Mr. Jovanovic. If, dear Mr Becic, you apply different criteria to MPs coming from the ruling coalition and opposition MPs, then that means, dear Mr Becic, that you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which contributes to the degradation and humiliation of dignity, not only of the MPs in the National Assembly, but of the National Assembly as the central institutions in our constitutional system. Dear Mr. Becic, please don't do this in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12690	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. If you had carefully read the Rules of Procedure, you would have seen that a member of the Government has no limited time to speak in the National Assembly, except in particular. As for Mr Jovanovic, I hesitated to give the right to a replica, but because of a brief clarification of a minute, I estimated it was important for this debate to respond to what the minister saw and noticed that the incorrect information he made in his speech. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I want the Assembly to declare this. All right. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12691	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the United Serbia Parliamentary Group will support changes and additions... (Zoran Babic, from the post: Mr. Zivkovic says to whom: "What is it, monkey? “ Someone older than him. What's this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12692	Please, MP. (Zoran Babic, from the place: I apologize, to whom the messenger in resignation says: "What is it, monkey? “ I ask the services to give me the stenographic notes immediately, to see who told whom what was said in the O.R., after everything was recorded. It's not just going into the microphone. I ask MP Vucet Toskovic to return to his post. Ambassador Toskovic, we will now proceed procedurally when we determine. I'm returning time to Ambassador Petrovic. I apologize again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12693	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, Assistant Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group will support both amendments and amendments to the law, both on public records and on the traffic of immobility for the reason that we believe that these changes will be corrected, i.e. those laws that are now in force, and at the same time overcome certain problems that exist due to the suspension of work or strike of an esnafic organisation in the Republic of Serbia. There have been words here both from the minister and from the participants in the debate on some of the things that are changing these laws, but right at first, I want to ask a question on behalf of the JS and remove a dilemma. Do we, from the parliamentary majority and from the opposition, want Serbia to emulate its rules with EU rules and apply them afterwards, if we want to enter and be a full member of the European community of peoples from the EU candidate status one day? If the Law on Public Registration has most of the countries that are members of the EU, as well as some countries in the environment of the Republic of Serbia that are not members, but are also candidates for EU accession, why are we now making a problem of applying a certain law that is applied in those countries with almost the same or similar provisions? Today I got a memo, I guess they got all the parliamentary groups from the Serbian Bar Association and for the sake of the public, I'm going to have to read what they're looking for. They say in one of the paragraphs – there is no legal reason for contracts on the availability of immovableities to be solemnized; for their fullness there has always been sufficient written form and judicial overa signature. Translated, that means we should go back to the way things were, not to change anything, to stay the same. On behalf of the JS Parliament Club, I ask – was it always good? What did the court’s notifiers, verifyers in the basic courts, or former municipal courts, confirm? They only verified signatures, i.e. verifying the identity of the signatories on fixed-moving contracts and nothing else. That's what Mr. Minister was talking about. Now, the solemnisation makes a public-book document, which has the power of an executive court order. The question now arises -- if what happened before was good, how did it happen especially in Belgrade, and also in other Serbian cities, one apartment or one immobility is sold several times, and those who are the second, third, fourth or fifth buyers in court proceedings that have been conducted for several years never exercise their right? Now I'm sure, when a public-book document is being made and they are being segregated, if we adopt these changes, and I hope that we will adopt amendments to the Law on Transport of Immobility and the Law on Public Registration, there will be no and will not come to such matters. On the other hand, in this memo that we have received again, it says – therefore Serbia's Bar of Lawyers reiterates that the request for a protest is to abolish the notary's exclusiveness in the making of the contract, that citizens and lawyers can freely draw up contracts that the notary only confirms, etc. I see that in this memo we received from the parliamentary group there are no tax questions. Does that mean they agreed that tax solutions were good? I know that one of the causes of the protest was so-called. tax increases, enormous tax increases, etc. Have they given up and stayed only on these demands? If they remain on these requests, by adopting these amendments, all requests will be accepted. Something else that's very interesting, I'm also talking about because of you, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, and also because of the public, yesterday I saw one show on TV, I think that the First, Mr. Minister was also a participant in the show, but he was also one of the representatives of the Bar Association and, among other things, I heard one expression that the existing laws on public records and on the traffic of immobility have been abolished by some rights to lawyers, i.e. the lack of business skills. As a graduate lawyer, with over 30 years of work experience, of which more than 20 years have been represented by companies where I worked, and I've been lifted from my business ability. If we accept that by this law, because by the time we passed these laws, I couldn't and couldn't make up the Real Estate Transport Treaty, I had to go to a public notary or notary. What's the difference, between me and someone whose profession it is, is that he's now incapacitated in business, and I'm in business. So we're both business incompetent, if we use that term. Therefore, it does not stand. On the other hand, what are we going to say about professors of bond law or civil-processing law at law schools? Were they also deprived of their business abilities, since they had to go to the notaries to make real estate contracts by applying this applicable law. These changes give this right only that these contracts will still have to be soloized with notaries, i.e. to make a public-book document. That's good. Many will be able to make real estate contracts, but not only will it be possible to verify the identity of those signatories on contracts, but the public notebook will have to make a public-book document guaranteeing both the seller and the buyer that the contract is valid and that the next day will not produce any legal consequences, badly on one side or the other. It's also spoken and we've talked a lot about citizens' rights to legal protection, etc. I am now asking certain public office holders - have many citizens in the Republic of Serbia been damaged for two months, by not exercising their right to trial within a reasonable period, not exercising their right to exercise some justice before the competent judicial authorities, for the sake of satisfying someone's personal interests? That's what I have to say in public. We, as MPs, must fight to ensure that all citizens are equal in the face of laws and against all state bodies in application and in the protection of certain rights. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, recognizes the problem, which may not have been such a big problem if it hadn't been up to some high throne, so to speak, for a little political or some other reasons, but in this discussion I wouldn't have entered into those reasons, and that these amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration and the Law on Transport of Immobility would want to come out in the face of the demands of many citizens so that in a simpler, fairer and cheaper way, I would say, this should be particularly emphasized, come and to exercise some of their rights and to protect some of their rights. For this reason, I repeat again, the JS parliamentary group will support both draft laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12694	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12695	Thank you, Madam President. I respect the fact that you can't keep track of what 249 MPs in the O.R. are doing, that you're focused on the speaker. However, in order not to keep certain things unarranged, before the presentation, or at the very beginning of Mr Petrovic's presentation, the MP in resignation, Mr Zivkovic, whose resignation we have been expecting for weeks, a fellow who is older in the National Assembly, has been called longer in the National Assembly by names more mentioned in Darwin's theory. I don't want to mention them, but they were also disdainful for a colleague of Toskovic's, but also for this National Assembly. It shows that he didn't move one step further than Darwin's theory. By all rules, written and unwritten, human and Godly, it is said – respect your neighbor, and if we think in different ways, politically, then at least we sit in this room and together we are MPs of the people, so I guess it is necessary to respect each other, to respect the years, to respect the younger and older than me. I guess that's part of home education. Please, in some ways, let us warn the public that someone really is not worthy of the lies they bring, because of the things and the way they behave, which is neither suitable for the Serbian bar, let alone for the most legislative body, such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I think you, as president of the National Assembly, really give a permanent order to the office to work day and night in waiting for the resignation of the man who pollutes this space.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12696	Dear MP, there is no injured Rules of Procedure in the sense that she is a stenographer, who at that moment was taking notes, still in the O.R. It is my serious intention to examine what is recorded in the stenogram and decide afterwards on any sanctions. Do you want us to vote on the injury? (No) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12697	Articles 103 and 104. You can't give a word, the chairman, to someone who appears after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, except after a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. If what the predecessor said, investigating his background at Darwin, then you should have given him 15 minutes ago or when he answered the word. Of course none of this is true of what's been said, and the insults that have been given to me directly, the pollution, it's not for the bar either, you've gone over it very easily. It's a violation of these two members of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement on this. Of course I didn't tell any of my colleagues. Tossing, MPs of the New Party, is part of the folklore, and it looks like part of the Rules of Procedure on whether these parliamentary groups or the entire ruling majority. For a colleague to say he's a liar, that's an insult to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, copies of Darwin's theory of evolution can't insult me, nor could they ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12698	So you don't need my explanation. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Always necessary. It's not always necessary if you say yes. So, there is no need for an explanation, but I did not want to interrupt, for the second time, the MP Petrovic who got up and started talking, in order to respect MPs who wanted to discuss the subject of the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12699	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 107 and Article 109. Article 107(1) says the dignity of the Assembly, which was injured after being thrown from Mr. Zivkovic's post. Article 109 says - a warning is given to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in the exhibition or throws, or interferes with the speaker, it was Mr Petrovic, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. Also, it stands - if it uses swearing and offensive expressions. Since he did all of this, I expect that after checking in the stenogram, when you make sure that this injury occurred, you reach out to member 109 and give a warning. I am not in favour of giving notices to the opposition MP, since we were all formerly opposition, but since it is a serious injury, since it is an insult, since the insult has been given to a person a few decades older than him, since the insult has been addressed to a MP, who has been a MP since 1998, I still recommend that you use your right to do so, but I will not be angry, I have no objection not to use it, and that you once again show high tolerance for the opposition that wants to portray yourself in this assembly as a difficult political sacrifice. So, I think that's all for warning, when you make sure of what we're saying, but I won't be angry if you skip that right of yours, since someone wants to provoke and portray yourself as a difficult political victim, although it's not a political sacrifice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12700	Thank you, MP. Then we'll leave the vote after the decision. Thank you. Is there anyone else who's reporting that he's discussing matters of authority or the president of the parliamentary groups? There's no one here. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Yes, there is no card. ) Because according to the Rules of Procedure, you should carry cards with you. You have cards, except no one carries them with them, so we're applying the measures to be taken from the parliamentary units, because we don't want an affair called "Bodrum" or anything like that to happen in this conference. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12701	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, we have amendments and additions to two laws that are very important for the functioning of our legal traffic and justice system, which are being brought into the situation of almost absolute blockade of our judiciary, which has been going on for almost two months now. Minister, we have also told you about this the last time you were here in the Assembly and you are absolutely, almost in the same sentence, telling us the things you have told us today – that these are changes that will contribute to the development of our judiciary, to speeding up the process of protecting the rights of citizens, the efficiency of the process, in line with European fluids, we are going to step up with the modern world, etc. So, a number of other things you said back then, you did it again today. The differences are significant between your previous arrival in the congregation and today. First, and then we told you something like this would happen. And then we asked you not to introduce these things in this way, not to introduce public notation as exclusive and monopolies, to do it gradually, to make a deal with the bearers, one of the holders of the legal order, which is a lawyer, to make a deal with these people that this thing doesn't go so fast and across the knee, to respect the things that are asked of you. You've answered a lot, I have to notice, negatively, and I have to notice, often with things that aren't in one legal conversation, even if it's politically motivated. I mean you, of course, not lawyers. Namely, we have not heard any evidence of a number of charges at the expense of the bar and lawyers, that they work as political exhibits of DS, that they are in the service of DS, in the service of tycoon Miroslav Miskovic and all that you have stated in the previous days. There is no evidence of that, because it is the product of your political position and not of any concrete evidence. You've all been denied, but you're still going on. Why? I don't know, but it seems to me it has something to do with the inability of a truly systematic arrangement. Or, if that agreement were to happen, as I wish, it could have been achieved much earlier, without this much energy being spent, without so much anger, hard words and accusations, on one side and on the other. Either in one case or in another, you were either unprepared for public records as part of our judicial system, or you were completely unprepared for any deal, there was already interest. Both shows your incompetence and incompetence for agreement and for conversation. I must commend the fact that you responded whenever you were called, or in most cases. It seems to me that yesterday you had a longer conversation in the bar, and it appeared in the media as information. I don't dispute your willingness to talk, but I do dispute your willingness to make a deal. Because at all costs, you want to push this thing out the way you imagined, or some people around you who advise you to do it. You remember we talked about public notebooks and the last time, and there we brought out a series of things about the process of selecting public notebooks. You said it was not true, and there was nothing of it, that it was some frivolent data that was presented by dissatisfied people. I'm telling you that this law has been prescribed, and you've confirmed it in countless shows, that there must be 100 notebooks. Beneath the legal minimum is 94. They illegally formed a chamber and broke the law that way. Your answer to that is – what is my fault that people won't sign up? You have people who laid down in 2012, rarely who of them passed for notebooks, rarely who of them today runs a public-book chamber. These are mostly people from 2014 and these are mostly people who are very, very close to Mr. Dejan Djurdjevic. In order for the citizens to know how all this was done and why it was done, regulations were laid down for the day, remember, because the application was from September 1st. It was unprepared. Public notebooks didn't have prepared offices, they weren't networked, they weren't able to exchange data, there weren't enough in Serbia -- 94 notebooks per seven and a half million residents. Absolutely not enough. Yet you insisted that it happen, with people who are very, very close to both you and Mr. Djurdjevic and ruling foreigners. It's a fact and everyone in Serbia knows it today. Absolutely all of them. I even have a list of people here that, when I read it, I would cause unnecessary political controversy, which I really don't want. I just want to understand why it was necessary to do this, why you decided, you simply decided, that they have the exclusiveity and the monopoly, that they only make public corrections, that they only assess whether the content is in accordance with the law or not with the law, and that's why they act by simply applying what they can apply, in this case, the law that you've passed, and earning tens of thousands of euros a month. It's natural for lawyers to rebel now because they're part of an old profession and they've been doing it for over 150 years. My question is -- why wasn't it possible, as we also suggested, that public notation be introduced anyway, no one is against it, but that the public notebook has one of the functions under the contract's clearance? So, that a lawyer or a citizen can put together a contract, which you're predicting with these changes, but that they can still verify it in court. Why would that be a problem? How would that slow down the process? How would that bury the dishes, how did you say? How are public notebooks not buried now? Do you know how many months the meetings are scheduled for? Do you know how many towns and municipalities in Serbia there are no public notebooks, now, right now? Do you know how much money these people make? Thirty percent of which are due to return to the judicial budget is insufficient. That should be a minimum of 50%. And that will be one of our proposals. When you said that this lawyer strike was politicized, I ask you, was the suspension of the work of a lawyer in May 2011 politicized? It's a very simple and specific question. If she was politicized back then, then this strike is also politicized. If she wasn't politicized then, then this strike wasn't politicized either. I must remind you that when the Law on Lawyerry was amended, at the request of my fellow Member, SNS signed the request, 22 of them, and the MPs of the NS, three of them, which is a total of 25 MPs who signed the request in May 2011, in order to implement an emergency procedure before the Constitutional Court. The first signator was Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Was it then politically motivated or not? It's a very simple question. Here, I say it wasn't politically motivated. It was simply the MPs of the opposition parties who supported a protest at the time. Then why is it politically motivated today? Because you're saying the uninterrupted thing that doesn't exist, and that's lawyer Sikimic counsellor Bojan Pajtic. It's a lie. It's been publicly denied several times. You don't mind, you keep talking. You explain to us the relationship between hundreds of people in the same position in criminal and legal proceedings because of the strike of lawyers with the exclusiveness of Miroslav Miskovic, whom you keep mentioning. How can you possibly have an entire professional, let me say, intellectual, part of this people's intelligence, one segment of society to accuse them of working for tycoons? I understand you're used to the opposition parties accusing you, but why are you doing this to your colleagues? As many as you said yourself, there are members of the ruling party among those lawyers. How do you not feel sorry for those people who are your party colleagues, that you put them all in the same basket? Is it true, Minister, that through this lack of dialogue and the results of the dialogue, with these minimum concessions you have made, you actually want to do a paralegal service in Serbia, a new caste, a new class of people who will be close to the authorities? That's not what Joseph Broz Tito was doing, and you know it. Can tomorrow happen, dear friends and gentlemen, that we have a new bar of law, "the advanced chamber of Serbia", where there will be lawyers who are close to you and notaries as the backbone of Serbia's future reform judiciary? That's what I think concerns the citizens of Serbia. They're worried about slowness. They're worried that they're multiple bigger ones who pay the notaries. They are concerned by the fact that by introducing these amendments to the law, respected ministers, you are now killing Serbia's lawyer, at least in the segment of making a real estate contract. Why? Because now no one's going to go to a lawyer to make a deal, everyone's going to the notary, everyone. Why would we go to a lawyer? We're going to the notary, he's going to verify me and confirm the correctness of my contract, the content. We think it would be much better for the notary to just verify the contract, not for him to be the one to confirm the correctness or failure. Either accept our proposal to do so, or re-introduce the court as an option where citizens can go with a lawyer to verify their contracts. Why does that bother? For what? Why'd you change that? That's what we asked you last time. Why is that necessary? You don't have a clear answer. Why is it not strange to you, Minister, that you have created a group of people who make enormous money and who are currently only 93 or 94 in Serbia? The one in Cačka earned 30,000 euros a month. The one in Old Town or New Belgrade, that's enormous sums. Is it true that Mr. Djurdjevic has given through his opinion the opportunity to deal with bank guarantees? Do you know how many hundreds of thousands of euros these people are now taking? And they're gonna pay 30% back? Make sure they get 50% back. Come on, get 50% back. What's the problem with you giving them a knife and making them decide everything? They'd have a lot to say about them, and their choices, and the way they're important candidates, and who they're close to, but I'm not going to get into it. I told you through a generic sentence that you're going to deny, but I claim, ministers, as well as the last time, these are people who are close to you, very close to you, people who are close to the authorities. This Sibinovic you run, however, was close to Miri Markovic, and now he is close to you. It's not for your pride, dear friends and colleagues. This thing needs to be done differently. We have submitted amendments and we are trying to alter the structure of this proposal. We hope you accept that, or at least part of it, because it's obvious, Minister, that this thing doesn't work. You'll either make a deal with the bar, or you'll ignore it, and then you'll build your own chamber. Anyway, it's a mess. And now citizens have huge problems on the ground. Here, ask in your municipalities how to verify contracts, how long it takes and when it's scheduled. How many people do you make? Why? Why was it done this way? Why is it against the law? Who is it that usurps the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of this land, until now it was you, Minister, and he says, "You're not in a position to make a contract, no, you have no idea, but you have to go to the notary, he'll make you a contract?" You realized yourself that it couldn't go through. Last time we told you about it -- usurpation, violation of the Serbian Constitution, violation of the Law on Bond Relations. And then we told you, and then you didn't care what we told you. Why? Now you've figured it out, so now you're coming back to the assembly. You know we have to tell you, Minister, we were right. I would like you to say – yes, you were right. You can't give a group of people, a close government, that it determines who's going to write the contracts and how. What does that look like? Every lawyer or wrongdoer, according to our law and constitution, has the right to write a contract. Now you've figured it out, so you're putting it in this bill change and we welcome it, but we don't think that's enough. Solemnization. They're about to confirm the correctness of the contract, so they can verify it. Same people again. Well, what would anyone make a contract if it had to come to a notary who would charge it fat and only give 30% into the budget? I only say it on purpose because it takes 50%. You know, Minister, perhaps MPs don't know how much these people make a month, 30% of them have peanuts. Let's be serious. What kind of people are these? Do you know what's going on here, Minister, in Serbia? What people have delivered to me, not only from the Chamber, but from various places, lawyers who directly addressed our MP club, but also other parliamentary clubs, to be correct, have addressed everyone, as well as the SNS, the amount of examples that are truly to be missed. You know this is happening, and nepotism, and closeness with the people around you, and closeness with your party, and closeness with Mr. Djurdjevic, especially Mr. Djurdjevic. So it's a new structure, a class that's been made. They take the money and they hold the knife and the cake, and now you say, "He doesn't have to write only anymore, he just needs to verify and confirm his legal right after." So now everyone can write from us, dear colleagues, but you have to go to this Djurdjevic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12702	Please pay attention to what you say and how you insult people who perform a profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12703	I'm not offended by the fact that I said that a man is behind it, everyone knows it. If I've offended it, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12704	These are some of your insinuations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12705	You know what it's like for me to insinuate that we all work for Miskovic. Imagine what an insult it is to me, that we are meeting at someone's hotel, and the prime minister is sitting in the hotel that he made.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12706	Would you be kind enough to talk about matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12707	I will. Anyway, I'm asking you these questions, Minister, I'm asking them with really good intentions and a desire to try to make a step that won't bring things back before 2011. We're not asking you to do that. We're just asking to extend the powers. We ask that you allow everyone to find their way to a legal job that the parties will satisfy, not not not the notaries, not the bar. So that people can have an alternative solution that is more favourable to them, materially, timely and in terms of energy. If they can't get to the notary, I mean. until the public register in time, if it's long-awaited, if the courts are now relieved of that burden, which we know they are, why don't we let the citizens do this job with a lawyer in a court of law and so far, and that the public notebook exists as an option? Why don't we do it? Here, let's say, this really seems like a constructive question to me. Just tell me, why does it bother and who does it bother? That's the first thing. The other thing, you can't just give one group of people, and I end up, that's my opinion, so I don't think you can give one group of people that she's assessing what legal work is, that she's talking about content, and then she's just verifying, and you have a lot of cases that they've been deaf about. What do we do now? Should we insist, Minister, that these people continue to retain that exclusiveity and that monopoly, or will you accept our well-intentioned suggestion to extend that authority? It's up to you. This would not only end the strike of lawyers, but would speed up the processes in our judiciary, people would come easier to obtain public documents and could be easier to carry out legal affairs than the interests of the citizens of Serbia. It's up to you. Somehow it seems to me that your smile is saying that you will not accept our offer. But, let me tell you, listening to you in the days before, we really don't expect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12708	Thank you, Madam President. If I ever get my smile on my face, it's from all the well-intentioned suggestions I can hear. I'm really thrilled when so many well-intentioned suggestions, especially from one of my esteemed colleagues, come and shine out of it. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to a few of the completely incorrect information that has been presented in the previous presentation. The first thing, is to completely lose sight of the 2011 Public Registration Act here. The 2011 Public Registration Act, which was passed almost three and a half years ago, was passed on the same day as the Law on Lawyership. The Law on Public Records, which was completely silent at the time it was brought in. The organised reaction of the bar when the law was passed is absolutely missing. This 2011 law gave exclusiveness to public notebooks to make up eight types of contracts, i.e. nine immovable transport contracts, was bound, or available to immovable property, by persons who were incapacitated in business. With these proposed changes at one point, the 2011 solution returns. When I said that I was, and as a minister, and as a government, that we made a step in the direction of requests of public notebooks, so we just did it. The president of the Bar Association is at the rally, Serbia's Bar Association is at an organised meeting, a protest rally of lawyers said – give us back the 2011 solution. And here it is. Then the question is, is that a solution enough? We're coming up with the next answer to the legal chambers where they say it's not. In a very open and constructive conversation with the presidents of Serbia's legal chambers, Vojvodina and Belgrade, I talked about it and finally when we summed up the results of that conversation, my question was – gentlemen, are you, therefore, asking to abolish the 2011 laws? They said yes. I can get you here and document what their suggestions are. Their proposal is to delete Article 82. The Law on Public Registration, which is a member who prescribes contracts that are specifically concluded in the form of a public record. Their proposal is to completely delete Article 83, which lists contracts that can be made up in the form of a public record. Their proposal is to delete Article 84 which defines the contents of the public record. Their proposal is to delete Article 85, which defines the enforcement of the public records as public documents. Their proposal, therefore, is to delete four members who define the Institute of Public Records Act. By repealing this act, the public notary shall consist of the role of the court notary and the court's notifier. Therefore, a notifier at the meetings of the stock companies who have more than 100 members and a court notifier who will place his seal on any act that the parties submit to him and confirm his correctness by means of a simple confirmation. Allow me, but there is no such thing as this in any legally regulated European state. It's a proposal that the Institute of Public Registration essentially abolishes itself. The 2011 law didn't predict that. The esteemed colleague mentioned a few things. At no time have I mentioned DS as the party behind this strike, and I responsibly claim it. Maybe it's an attempt to challenge your replica, I have nothing against it. I didn't say a single sentence behind this was DS. You're a serious man, I'd ask you to consider it, to check it out, so you'll see that I didn't say that. Did I mention Miroslav Miskovic? Yes, I am, and I have no problem mentioning it, absolutely no problem. Why do I mention him? Tomorrow, when a liberating verdict was reached to Miroslav Miskovic, the whole of Serbia would jump to the justice minister to tell him he was guilty. Well, if I answer to say so then – you have now found that you should report, and if I call during the course of the court proceedings for matters that are in the sole jurisdiction of the justice minister, which is to monitor the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, which is legally passed by the Minister of Justice, and the Rules of Procedure are defined and regulated as and when the hearings are scheduled for the main search, then I have a full legal basis to report to the team about it. If we have a search warrant that sometimes waits for more than 60 days, and in other cases we have a hearing scheduled for the main search going day after day, five days a week. If one of our neighbouring states could have a former high-ranking state official convicted in a year and a half, and we are not in one, as journalists call it "the process of the century", we are able to start a major search after more than one year with evidence. Then it testifies to someone's bad intentions in one of the criminal proceedings. If before the strike we have a situation to schedule the search for 40 days, 50 days, 60 days, just one day. Not in a single sentence did I think, nor did I speak, but the lawyers stood by Miskovic. No, I was talking about individuals. It is absolutely insane to say that eight and a half thousand people can put in their service and whether lawyers at the start of the strike were motivated by the reasons of the profession, whether their request was then – we do not want the notaries to have the exclusiveity of making up a real estate contract. Yes, and that's exactly the part where we go out to meet. Who are the close - called public notebooks? I know I didn't. You know, it's very unserious to react in such a way, because you always know that my reaction can come to whom the close judges who were once completely non-transparent in 2009 to 2010 were expelled from the judiciary and who were close to those who entered the judiciary? Well, we had judges of appeals who were never judges in their lives, and then they were elected judges. Judges of appeals courts, courts who have inherited the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. I'm not going to go into that debate at all, but I'm going to take it from here, or, say, 94 public notebooks to seven and a half million citizens. That's absolutely incorrect. Well, we have 33 courts whose area is not named public notebooks. In these courts, there is no competent public register, but a job where there is a public register in such places is carried out by the court. Who makes tens of thousands of euros? If there is an individual, these will be the provisions we have proposed, disabled. And I'm asking one question, said my esteemed predecessor, says - not 30%, 50%. So when the law was passed, you put zero percent of the state. Zero posts were put into a law adopted in 2011, no single dinar. We now propose 30%, and you say - no, 30%, 50%. Well, where were you in 2011 when the law was proposed to then say you should give the state something. That's when none of it was heard. Do I know how many months to wait? It's another one of the ground-up attempts. The longest wait is from 10 to 14 days for a contract to be drawn up and you have that in the case of only two public records offices out of 93. On average, it waits from two to three days, which is perfectly normal, I'd worry about waiting less, which would mean that people are stamping without reading and not checking the parties' statements. Who is restricting the freedom to negotiate? Freedom of contract is limited by forced regulations, according to the Law on Liabilities. No one's restricting the freedom to negotiate. Can I, for example, go to my esteemed colleague and write him a contract to sell him the "winner" monument in Calemegdan? We can write it. It can be a court-certifier and put a signature on it, the notary won't put a signature on it, not a signature, not a stamp. But what the notary draws up, in its essence, is essentially different from what is brought to the court's notifier on the cover. How can I not feel sorry for the lawyers who are my party friends, comrades, colleagues? I'm sorry. I'm sorry that people like that are illegal and anti-constitutional, because people like that, because they want to work, because they want their right to work, because they want to earn bread from whom they're going to support their family, they're fighting for the right to work, and someone's taking away their right. In Sremska Mitrovica, a few days ago, there are cases of multiple rape of a minor. No lawyer was allowed to come to the defendant's hearing, none. When I called my party friends, as you said, in Sremska Mitrovica and asked them, they told me-- we can't. We can't because they're gonna suspend us. Is it normal, is it legal, is it constitutional? The right to strike is equated with the right to refuse strikes in all international acts, in acts of international labour organisation, in our current regulations. Who tried to put a lawyer under their control? He tried the one who passed the 2011 law. Exactly what didn't go after Broz's hand, it went to whoever passed the Law on Attorneyship in 2011. This Law on Lawyerry that abolished the independence and independence of regional legal chambers, the Law on Lawyerry in which unconstitutional provisions were passed that allowed the Serbian Chamber to confiscate public powers from regional chambers. How can he take away someone he didn't even give him? He's not giving the Chamber public authority. Public authority is the only one who can trust the state. It's just a country. The reminders for, since the 2011 strike was mentioned, what was then allowed by the Law on Lawyerry? That's what everyone remembers, especially the Belgrade lawyers. At that time, the Serbian Bar Association of Lawyers, by one move of feathers, wiped out the legally elected leadership of Belgrade's Bar Association, organized a assembly of 300 people, selected some of its leadership, then legally and legitimately elected Belgrade Attorney General Slobodan Šoškovic threw out on the street, and the Ministry of Justice, then, what was it doing? That was quiet. The ministry of justice to oversee the exercise of public authority has been silent. The Constitutional Court later assessed those provisions of the Law on Lawyerry, declared them unconstitutional, and put them out of force. So someone then attacked the election will of a lawyer. Someone was then to lawyers who were at the most numerous election assembly of Belgrade's Bar Association, where nearly 1100 lawyers were present, never before, attacked the election will of lawyers, turned over and brought a completely different leadership of Belgrade's Bar Association. The D.O.D. kept quiet. You're not going to tell me what the lawyers in the Law of Law were objecting to in 2011. They rebelled over trying to introduce fiscal cash registers. Whether they were right or not, I don't get into it at all, but I remember one thing, they didn't object to the Law on Public Records, and at the same session on May 5th 2011, that law was passed along with the Law on Lawyerry, the Law on Lawyerry, which, unlike the previous laws, had been erased by the Ministry of Justice's office, directly stated in every previous Law on Lawyerry. The Law on Lawyerry was deleted by the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, as a ministry that oversees the exercise of public authority. The Constitutional Court said well - the Law on State Administration provides for the jurisdiction of the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. When the government of the Republic of Serbia called in September for the law of the management of the Bar Association, it tried to make fun of me personally and the government, saying that the Law on State Administration could not be applied. Whoever's talking didn't read the law. A public authority holder entrusted with public authority shall be treated as a state authority. Therefore, the public authority entrusted by law, inter alia, with the Bar Association, is a public authority whose application must be controlled by the state. What did I tell you? One of the entrusted public powers is the implementation of disciplinary procedures. One of the entrusted public powers is a temporary ban on law enforcement. The man went to Novi Sad as a defense attorney on official duty to call the police and prosecutors for a hearing of the person who committed the crime - murder. After that, he was suspended as a lawyer, and the Law on Lawyerry explicitly states - a lawyer cannot refuse the defence of a person ordered by a court, another state authority or a barrister, unless otherwise prescribed by law, or for reasons for which he can reject it, which are provided for by law. What reasons are provided for by law? Those concerned with the exemption of lawyers if they are in conflict of interest, as you have reasons for excluding judges, as you have reasons for excluding prosecutors or deputy prosecutors, absolutely the same, not absolutely, but almost the same, same nature. So here we have people who work completely past the constitution, gradually past the law, who take away other people's right to work. I'll remind you of one more thing, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the right to legal aid is not an economic right. The right to legal aid is a human right. You can't deny anyone his human rights to whatever profession you belong to. Today, we are rebelling from certain circles and votes against the exclusion of notaries, and before that, someone in procedural laws had given exclusiveness to lawyers, so throughout the whole series of changes and additions to the adoption of new laws, the monopoly was given to a lawyer. Now we're moaning that a contract can't put together a judge, a law professor, a legal written face. And do you know that an audit can't be written by anyone but a lawyer? And why is that? And why can't a professor of law school write it? And what can't be written by our, your, my friend who's a lawyer in a bank, who's a lawyer in a municipality, who's a lawyer in a state administration system? A defense attorney in criminal proceedings could be who? Just a lawyer. So the lawyer got a monoplyst position in the legal system. I'm not saying it's bad at all, but it's very bad when someone uses their monopoly position to blackmail others to block the system, when they're aware that the functioning of the system in the good part depends on it personally and then behaves like this. I have to mention one thing that's completely missing. When a state keeps someone in custody for half an hour, one after another, representatives of NGOs and different state institutions stand up to attack the state and say that it unfoundedly deprives a person half an hour. That's not controversial. They're absolutely right. They should get up every time. Do you know that in Belgrade County Prison you have a face waiting 54 days for your acquittal? For what? Fifty-four days longer in custody. For what? Because someone doesn't want to appear before the court and allow that person to give an acquittal and come out. Has one single NGO been raised to say – someone abuses their monopoly position and violates the other’s human rights? I didn't hear. I've heard people talk about it in the last few days. You should know, in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for such an unfounded deprivement of freedom which is not caused by the reasons of the state is not a responsible state, but is responsible for the one who made it impossible for him to leave early. I feel sorry for my party colleagues who are victims of those who, breaking the Constitution, suspend them and do not let them work and how sorry I am for them. I'm sorry to anyone in a country who, thank God, has begun to reduce the army of unemployed, someone is making it impossible to work. I'm not taking anyone with me, even if it was Dr. Djordje Sibinović. Most of the people you mentioned by name are people of integrity. If you have anything personal against them, speak to them. I am no one's defender here, and whether something depends on me or not, in the National Assembly, it depends not on the minister, but depends on the will of the citizens translated into the will and votes of the MPs. It was not rare for laws, with whose amendment and supplementation we come here to the National Assembly, to experience their amendments to the amendments to the MPs, and even amendments to the opposition MPs, and each time I welcomed it, only that memory is sometimes short, so if we did something right, we won't mention it. In Serbia, much better goes the ugly news, the bad news, the news where there's the truth, the news where there's personal disqualification, personal debauchery, and I think we're doing well. Here, Dr. Milosavljevic was just here. That's the man we made a very good legal solution with because we accepted his amendment and I'm proud of it. I'm sorry they didn't do that to the previous assembly. I'm sorry that some previous government, when I was in opposition, didn't have the power and the strength to accept the opposition's amendments, because I am confident that the laws would be much better then. I think the authority I belong to shows my greatness by listening to the opposition, constructively considering its proposals, accepts amendments that are in line with the purpose of the legislator, or legislator. When something categorically claims, then it should be based on clear, accurate and verifiable facts, and listening to some exposure here, I haven't heard such facts. That doesn't mean that one of my respected predecessors in some things was wrong, but there's no more dangerous thing than half-truth. You say something that is, and then three things about what they're not, and then what they are, you're completely turned on the tubes, which our people would say. Lawyers whose motive was exclusively professional in this strike have the opportunity to see, through these proposed amendments and additions to the law, that there is still a proposed solution to something in which they benefit. She's been mentioned several times legalized. Legalization is still possible. You've got it in the Act of Certificate of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. In the same text, it passed the Law on Public Registration, into the law that was passed at the end of August of this year. Whoever wants to buy a car can still do the same thing. Can he do it for the house, for the apartment, for the field, for the woods, for the crying? I can't, and I think it's a good thing he can't, because justifying a real estate transport contract under the sign-over system with the contractors has led our legal traffic into a big problem. This is exactly how it makes it impossible. Whoever thinks it's not good, keep on thinking it. This is a free-thinking country, but according to all relevant international acts, both the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, and Serbia is seeking to establish a rule of law by a European model. The state has the exclusive right to regulate the area of real estate transport because it reduces the ability to launder money, because it gives citizens a much higher level of legal certainty, because the citizen is then much safer that if he bought the apartment he knows he bought it and that he is not the same owner who sold it to him that same apartment sold to several others. Is there a magic wand that absolutely makes something like that impossible? It doesn't exist in any country. Is public notation something that can lead to malfeasance? Yes, it is. If that were not the case, it would not be introduced by other countries in Europe and the orderly world, and Serbia is one of the last in Europe to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12709	I thank Minister Selakovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12710	Thank you, Minister, for this exhaustive answer. I'm sorry that some things you haven't been able to touch in your 30-minute exposure, but I'm asking you a few things to supplement, possibly to explain what I've told you. So you're saying that lawyers take away other people's right to work, i.e. chamber decisions. I ask you, how do you apply the law enforcement strike, who is their employer? Are you an employer to them or are they a free profession, always, since the world and the century? Are you announcing the creation of a para-state, para-region legal chamber in Serbia, which will be controlled by the justice ministry? Do you know that a strike can't happen if you don't have an employer, because against whom you strike? They're not your subordinates and you're not their employer and you can't say - they don't have the right to strike. They're stopping work because they can't make a deal with you. Everything you've brought up, Minister, that long list of misunderstandings, mistakes, failures, everything, unfortunately or fortunately, is written down for you. You're a minister who can't deal with lawyers. You're the minister who insists that public records be introduced to our justice system at all costs. Absolutely the next day has everything to start operating as an exclusive right of public interest. You're the one who showed again and today that you can't make a deal with them. What's the conclusion? Who's gonna give in? You obviously won't. They won't give in. So, either you build your own chamber, which is devastating for our country and our legal security and the legal system and whatever you want. Therefore, I am under the impression that you must resign. Join Prime Minister Vukic. I have to say in the end, let me ask you, are the public notebooks networked and why aren't they? Are they also required to have confidence in their property? It's not. Why didn't you personally ask for 30% when you were here in August, September of the month, and now you're saying we didn't have that either? Well, you didn't ask for that. You had a zero percent proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12711	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12712	I'm not the kind of person who personally asks for one percent, let alone 30%, and who says, why didn't you personally ask for 30%, probably has other motives in his head. We haven't changed the Public Registration Act in August of this year. The amendments to the Law on Public Registration and despite this session of today are certainly planned, because this law contains a series of solutions that can be significantly better than those adopted in 2011. Is this a major shift that we're asking that some of the public records' income go straight to the budget, the moment you know, and now I'm going to tell you that the state gets more? I already explained that, but someone wouldn't listen to me. So, when you add the VAT amount and that 30% of the untaxed part of the public notebook reward from the total price paid to the public register, 41.66% goes to the state, with VAT. I think that's just fine. Nobody wants to ask one of the things. First, very briefly – are the public notebooks networked? Public notebooks are networked. Did they get their property card when they were being secured? They certainly took their property card. What do you think insurance companies, which are in a convincing majority in the Republic of Serbia, will be privately owned, that they will receive hundreds of thousands of euros in credits without guarantee? Do you think private insurance companies in Serbia are doing this? Well, of course they don't. You can't get it anywhere with beautiful eyes, anywhere. Don't, please, let disinformation spread fear into the opening of some, as you said, para-state chambers. Two years and two months of law offices are trying to get me into conflicts that they have between each other, two years and two months. I can't think of going into their internal conflicts. I can't think of anything. The problems she's having with her own lawyer, she has to solve for herself. In many things, and especially in this, I have no idea to follow the examples of my predecessors, I have no idea. What made 2011 law possible? This is exactly the law that allowed the establishment of a regime's attorney. It was this law that gave one chamber the right to control all others, one single one. Then you had the Chamber of Belgrade, who then refused to listen to the regime and then the people who led her to force her into the street. That's what you keep quiet about, that's not what you're talking about. If not, ask Mr. Shoskovic where he was for about a year and a half, was he perhaps in his office, in his cabinet as president of Belgrade's Bar Association? It's not. Was he deprived of all the powers he had as legal and legitimately elected president of Belgrade's Bar Association? They did. He had to be brought back by the court to his verdict. And then they tried to drag me into their internal conflicts as an arbiter, and it didn't occur to me. Therefore, if you think the right solution is my resignation, so you organize yourself in the Assembly, convince the MPs of the majority, convince the Government of the Republic of Serbia, convince the Prime Minister who proposed me to this place, so vote on it. I don't mind. You know how much easier it was for you when you left another state office and sat down in a parliamentary bench. If you think that's the right solution -- here you go, I absolutely accept it, if you convince the people who chose me not to be in this place, I'll be happy to leave this place. It doesn't occur to me that, as some with 6% of the vote, they hold a million and a half people hostage to their imaginations in size, not thinking about the personal act of resignation, that after the election, where in many municipalities in the area of the autonomous province they haven't even crossed the censorship, let's say in Indjia, let's say in Bačka Palanca, in many other municipalities. The time has passed for usurper in Serbia. I hope it will be so in certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia where they still exist and admire their political and not knowing what size they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12713	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Stefanovic said he was sorry that Minister Selakovic did not explain everything he wanted to explain to him. He hasn't explained more than a month and a half to us why he escaped from the scene of a car accident that he caused because he couldn't walk 812 meters, but had to use the official car of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so it would be good for the MPs to get an answer to that question. The SNS parliamentary group will support both proposed laws in the voting day, and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of immovableity for all reasons that are very detailed, very argumentative, very professional, very studioy and professionally explained by Minister Selaković. There is no doubt that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration and Amendments and Supplements to the Transport of Immobility Act meets all reasonable and professional demands of lawyers. What is at work in the Republic of Serbia is, on the one hand, a violation of the Law on Lawyerry, and on the other hand, the circumcision of all lawyers in RS against the RS government. It's clear to the little kid that he's so-called. The lawyer's strike, which we have now heard from the distinguished Mr. Stefanovic that this is not actually a strike, but as it was said in communism, the suspension of work is absolutely and only against Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic and of course against the RS Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, and there is countless evidence of it. The first government in Serbia to have the strength to fight organised crime and corruption in Serbia is the government of Aleksandar Vukic. The first government to force the country's judicial system to launch proceedings against Miroslav Miskovic and a whole series of others, suspected of robbing this country, is the government of Aleksandar Vukic. Some kind of procedure, some kind of process that wants to stop. Someone wants to take Serbia back to that bar, in the toads, in the mud in which it was in 2012 or by 2014, to tycoons, to mobsters, to have corrupt people run the fates of us and our children. The SNS parliamentary group, the RS government will not allow that. As for the so-called so-called. A lawyer strike, which we've heard isn't really a strike, but it's some legitimate suspension of work, that's what it was called, if memory doesn't cheat on me, Mr. Atlagic, at the time of Cardella, right? At the time of communism was not allowed to strike, so when a strike took place in a factory, then communist executives would not maintain the illusion of a paradise in which the working class lived—so it is not a strike, it is a ceasefire. Now, these new communists say what's happening in Serbia right now isn't actually a lawyer strike, but it's an end to work. Here's the thing. The Law on Lawyerry was passed in 2011. So, with this Law on Lawyerry, neither Mr. Selakovic nor Mr. Babic, nor I, nor Mr. Vukic, nor the SNS have absolutely nothing to do with it. This is the law the DS passed. What does it say in the Law of Lawyership that brought in the DS? It writes a lot that does not contribute to those who are running Serbia's Bar today and that there would be no confusion, the SNS, the SNS parliamentary group, is in no political or verbal conflict with lawyers in Serbia. We're just trying to point out that those who lead today, so a few people, Serbia's Bar Association, in my opinion, and that they abuse the Law on Lawyership that was brought in 2011. The law in Article 9 of the Law states - I swear that I will carry out my duties as a lawyer with certainty, that in my work I will abide by the Constitution, the law and other regulations, the statutes of the Bar and the Code of Professional Ethics of Lawyers, and that I will maintain my reputation as a lawyer by my actions and conduct. Then what happens? It happens that, about 20 days ago in Shappac, a husband stabs his wife with a knife, the police arrest him, bring him to a competent court in Capco, he's supposed to be in custody, it's a serious crime of murder, he can't determine detention because the defendant, i.e. The suspect doesn't have a lawyer. No one wanted to take the job of representing the suspect for one serious crime, for the murder. Tell me, is that in accordance with article 9 that contains the text of the attorney's oath? It's not. Next, in Article 15. The Law on Lawyerry, which has not passed by the SNS, writes – the lawyer is obliged to practice law in real and permanent terms, so that he is really and constantly engaged in law enforcement, to provide legal assistance professionally and securely in accordance with the Law, the Statute of the Bar Association and the Code, to keep the attorney's secret, to keep in professional work and in a private life that is accessible to the public the reputation of the attorney. What do we have in practice? We have in practice that individuals who run Serbia's Bar have given themselves the right to seek the resignation of Justice Minister Selakovic. It's a couple of excellent political issues. A lawyer's chamber is not invited to request the resignation of any state official. He doesn't have that right. And then you tell us -- well, lawyers are independent and independent -- that's what they do for any political party of the former regime. Of course they're all on the same assignment, both the former regime parties and the tycoons and individuals who run Serbia's Bar Association. It needs to be torn down, the RS government needs to be destabilised, Serbia needs to be returned to the toads, so that tycoons and mobsters rule. We need to stop the SNS. It is necessary to stop Alexander Vukic in an attempt to make Serbia a better, more decent country in which our children will live safer, better, than we do today, who live hard, not because the RS government has decided from some whim to take heavy measures, but because those who ruled Serbia for 12 years and now rule the Vojvodina for 14 years, and have 6% support, have ruined the lives of many generations in the Republic of Serbia. Here were the words that some public notebooks had become rich thanks to Minister Selakovic and thanks to Mr Dejan Djurdjevic, director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. Now I'm going to read you a comparative review of the legal and public-book tariffs. In the case of a contract worth 450,000 dinars, the legal tariff of 11200 dinars and the public-book tariff of 9,000 dinars. In the case of a contract worth 750,000 dinars, the legal tariff of 15,720 dinars, and the public-book tariff of 15,000 dinars. In the case of a contract worth 1.5 million dinars, the legal tariff of 27,670 dinars and the public-book tariff of 15,000 dinars. In the case of a contract whose value is, imagine, 48 million dinars and more, the legal tariff of 84,000 dinars, and the public-book tariff of just over 93,000 dinars. How things stand in legal matters where the value of legal work cannot be established: in the case of pre-contractual – legal tariff, i.e. The legal reward of 24,470 dinars, with a public notary of 15,000 dinars; in the case of a legacy, i.e. a will – the legal reward of 21,470 dinars, the reward of a public notary of 15,000 dinars; and in all other types of contracts where the value of legal work cannot be established – the legal reward of 21,470 dinars, the reward of a public notary of 15,000 dinars. Unlike the former regime's MPs, who like to talk casually, some public notebooks have become rich, some state secretaries, some ministers, some officials do this or what, we in SNS speak the language of fact, as the people would say - pop, and Bob Bob. Here, Mr. Minister, we mentioned the real estate trade and we mentioned one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, Adu Kale, where the government still has 6% support and the largest city in that democratic Ada Kale, Novi Sad. Here's what happened, now I'm going to tell you exactly in 2007, so if you only have a few minutes to listen to me. So it's an apartment shop, a real estate store. Here's what happened. The then president, i.e. Head of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund Momcilo Milovic, later General Consul of the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken, in Trieste during the former regime, bought from the Business Society "Gardi" d.o.o. from Novi Sad, an apartment of 78 squares, on 82nd Street Boulevard of Liberation. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: Is this a theme? ) This is all about explaining to Serbian citizens how trade...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12715	Mr. Stefanovic, please don't throw away. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: He brings out where he lives. ) Unfortunately, I cannot enter the speaker’s speech if it speaks about the subject, and here are examples of whether a law is good or bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12716	Mr. Chairman, very heavy accusations have been made here, flat-rate and unproven at the expense of Minister Selakovic, at the expense of the director of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, that they have allowed someone to acquire hundreds of thousands of euros. I haven't heard a single name. I will now read you names, data, dates and figures, to see how DS robbed and how unfortunately still looting the citizens of Vojvodina. Here's the thing. So, Director of the Capital Investment Fund, you can wave your hands, I'm not afraid of you, so feel free to keep doing it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: And we are afraid of you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12717	Mr. Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12718	The then Director of the Fund... Ask him why he ran off the scene when he crashed the official car? So in 2007, Momcilo Milovic bought an apartment from this company at the price of 16.550,000 dinars on 3 September 2007 and the deadline for paying the purchase price was 31 December 2007. According to the accounting status, on 31 July 2013, when the last booking was made, on the card of customers of natural persons PR “Gardi” d.o.o. from Novi Sad, on Contact 2021, Commissioner Momcilo Milovic owes 2,175,847 dinars, or in Euros 27,500. What's going on, Mr. Minister? With the payment of the purchase value of the apartment, Momcilo Milovic stops at the time when the company "Gardi" d.o.o. starts. from Novi Sad on the affairs of the execution of works, financed by the Fund for Capital Investments of the AP Vojvodina. What do I want to tell you? The apartments were bought at the expense of the citizens of Vojvodina Stans by financing contracts financed by the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and doing so today. That is why political performances are being held in Vojvodina every day in Novi Sad for the reconstruction of the Regional Government. That's why the parties of the former regime rule out each other from their parties today, tomorrow because they supported the current province prime minister. Why do they care about maintaining the province's power? To hide the crime they've been dealing with since 2000. It's the essence of their government. They don't care about the people of Vojvodina. They don't care about European fluids. They don't care about the fact that these notaries exactly had the largest foothold in Serbian history right on the territory of Vojvodina. When in Serbia, in that Turkish part of Serbia, there was no mention of public notebooks, there were public notebooks in Srem, Banat, Bačka, etc. Today, trees and stones at the Institute of Public Note from those representing themselves as great Europeans, as great duchess, as advocates of European values. Since I'm going to put a few minutes to the end, here, I'm not going to read the names, I'm not going to tell Mr. Minister or the name of the court, but here's what some lawyers are doing. Some lawyers, not all of them. There are honest and honest people here. But what do some lawyers do? Apparently, they're on strike or they're in this communist suspension. What are they doing? Here's the court's entry stamp, October 14, 2014. Is it a lawyer strike? Yes, it is. You've got a lawyer's office stamp here. It doesn't matter who it is. You have a lawsuit, and what did they come up with? The lawsuit was filed by a lawyer, charged, asked for God's price. Probably in cash, which is why a public notebook by law can't work. What did the genius think of? The prosecutor, this one and that one, the physical person, his signature, and the lawsuit was drawn up by a lawyer and charged, and they say – we are on strike, we are looking for Minister Selakovic's shift, we are not good with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But they like people's money, especially cash, especially cash. And shut up Dragoljub Djordjevic, defender of Predrag Filipovic. He says it has nothing to do with Miskovic. The president of the Serbian Bar, correct me, Mr Selakovic, is Predrag Filipovic, the fourth indictee in the case against Miroslav Miskovic, former CEO of Delta Broker? Now it's an accident? Is it by chance when Nikola Sandulovic, a former member of the DS board, breaks into the lecture of Alexander Vukic? It's a coincidence when a cop brutally beats up a brother, Alexander Wolfich? Is it a coincidence when a hack starts here that Andrej Vukitch has a private firm? I have evidence here, probably one of the former regimes will answer, so I'll have time to say something about it too. So, all of this is also directed against you, Mr. Minister, against the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is primarily directed against President Aleksandar Vukic, to stop reforms in Serbia, to make Serbia the way it was in 2012. That in Serbia, criminals, tycoons, rule of lawlessness, that our children live in fear, that we must send them abroad, that it is better to live in Canada, Australia, who knows where, only not to stay in Serbia. We don't want that kind of Serbia. We lived in such a Serbia. Citizens said they didn't want that kind of Serbia. Such a Serbia is wanted by those who have 6% of the vote and who are struggling to preserve power in Vojvodina to see the light of day. Sir, the Ministers will have all our support in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12719	The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12720	You see, Mr. Chairman, we've heard a series of insults, untruths, lies presented by fellow Friday, known for having five salaries and five scientific papers in a row forging, just changing names. But since this isn't worth it, we have a strike. You know, I contacted my lawyer to sue my colleague, because he kept telling the truth that I crashed the car and sang. Just as much as Prime Minister Vukic crashed and ran away. Just as much as President Nikolic and as much as Ivica Dacic's wife crashed in an official car. As guilty as they are, so am I. That's the first thing. The other thing, Mr. Friday knows that the damage to that crashed car is less than his one salary. But I'll tell you one other thing. You've allowed charges and parts of the investigation given to him by the minister to be read here, just before this event. The Serbian judiciary was completely, once again derivated. You know you can't do that. They're now reading about this man's indictment by who knows which time. We have both the prosecution and the court and the police, it's so unselective. None of you are responding. It's not your idea to react to things like this. On Mr. Friday, five salaries, five scientific papers falsified, reads a man, doesn't care. You want us to leave the session, that's the point. You want to insult Ada Calais like this. Do you know what happened to Adi Kale, Mr. Chairman? I see you didn't react, maybe you didn't know or didn't hear, I don't know. Serbian uprisings were killed on Adi Kale. In the most brutal way in the mud of the coast they cut them with sabers. Since we're odors on Ade Kale, let me explain, so that's what we need to happen. Why is there something stopping some member of the SNS from, say, not on the job list, not getting straight from the party, getting a nice stick and catching us out here and ending up with us like a breather? Is anyone thinking about it here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12721	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12722	What? So, I'm sorry, I'm finishing a sentence, which because of this rudeness and primitiveism, I can't ask the minister any more questions right now. Do you see? Now, look what you've made possible and why you let a man make incidents for someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12723	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. You wouldn't be able to ask the Minister a question at this point, and secondly, the charges in your speech and in the speech of the previous speaker, as you say, we can't interpret as chairman. You present your view of the bill in one way, as well as someone else on the other hand, and we cannot enter the way you speak and speak if you talk about the subject, and the previous speaker spoke about the subject in his own way and presented some details that he thinks can help to support this law by the MPs. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: That we should be killed. Do you know what that means? Don't, please throw away. I say what you asked me. What I don't know is I can't even... That's not how I heard it, if I heard it, I'd react. Thank you. The word has Professor Alexander Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I fully agree that Mr. Stefanovic is smarter than I am. It's also proven by finishing law school at a time when I was a master of legal science. It is not true that Prime Minister Alexander Vukic escaped from the scene, as he did. So Alexander Vukic waited for the police to come and see. Mr. Stefanovic didn't do it. I don't know what bothers Mr. Stefanovic when the facts are presented here. He says the Home Secretary gave me the information. Well, that's not true. They gave me people who have been working at the Capital Investments Fund, who have been looking at the face of 2006 to this day the eyesless robbery of the people of Vojvodina and who simply can't take it anymore. I can list thousands of these things for you. There are no municipalities in Vojvodina that you haven't eaten by fixing contracts, inflating prices, taking commissions, etc. As for Ade Kale, I used that term metaphorically. When Serbian uprisings conquered Belgrade, the odors, four odors fled to Ada Kale. No one here calls for any murders, but I want to tell you that those who ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2012 ruined us that they couldn't go up there, ruined our children's lives, now they're like breathers running off to their Ada Kale. Today, the odors, in a political sense, are urging Selakovic to resign. The Serbian Progressive Party is calling on the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, which is moreover, ask God to resign because the citizens of Vojvodina will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12725	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12726	Imagine, Mr. Becic, what kind of Phariseeism it is, what hypocrisy it is to call for the resignation of a man in the government who received almost a referendum, the above-average support of Serbian citizens in the last elections, those who have barely crossed the censorship with all Zivkovics, Pavicevic, ask God with what kind of people who have ruined Serbia along with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12727	The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. This closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12728	So it's really below all levels, but I have to say that Mr. Friday will have to explain in court that I crashed the official car and ran away. Since the doctor is supposed to be, or he is, he'll be able to explain it. Otherwise, I graduated at 25. So much for lying. But, Ada Kale, please, once again it's said and you're not responding, the minister with sympathy looks at the invitation to a lynch opposition. Minister, correct me. Tell us, do you feel comfortable with the insolence you've heard, and do you approve that someone who is a political opponent, not an enemy, can be hated so much, to be defiled and to lie about people? You know what our ancestors, the Serb liberators in the first Serbian uprising, were doing with their breaths on Adi Calais? Did they kill them? I guess we'll all agree. So we're breathers on Adi Kale for Mr. Friday. I ask you, did you bring down the 2010 and 2011 judicial reform? Yes, it is. So how is 2011 better solutions, Minister? That's what you tell me. Are the public notebooks networked with courts and disaster, not each other? That's what you tell me. So those are the questions. That's what we talked about today until this little incident came along, a morally small incident. Why do we have to listen to this? I don't know. Because it's an old school of people who are today, you heard honourable MPs, read the oath of Serbian lawyers, not people who should even talk about oaths because they ate Seselj in church, so they stepped on it. It's a bit of an awkward thing for you to talk about oaths.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12729	Time. I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Martinovic, you have no right to a replica. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replication to personal mention. Here you go. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12730	It is clear that the replica is caused by one senseless mention by the predecessors who in his pointless campeque speech repeated everything that is in fact the mark of a poor, bad side of our reality in the last twenty and a few years. The fact that you think that these texts you learn yourself or someone adds to you as a note as a minister just now, if you think that the thing is that you're talking for half an hour, you're making up a new lie from moment to time, if you think that's the solution to the problem in Serbia, you have a big problem. I am sorry that because of your problem, this big problem will be the problem of the largest number of Serbian citizens, this movement of lies, half-truths, lies, fiction. You're the former regime. The former regime is the former government. You were the former government. I don't know if there was a minister present in that government. I don't remember, but you're the former government. That there were bad solutions in the previous period, of course there were and of course there was a need to react to them then and of course serious people in Serbia did, including me, and you then respected your founder, who was not your member, but founded you and his regime you suffered until you strengthened. I'm really sorry that in the Serbian Parliament we also have inventions like your colleague said earlier that someone was throwing something out of Darwin's theory of evolution. Here's a stenogram where of course there's nothing about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12731	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12732	I ask you, President, to protect the honor of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12733	I will, of course. I'm worried about that. It's no big deal. For the sake of the public, let me just say that the allegations of Serbia's Bar Association are completely untrue, after they have spoken to the public and said they are not allowed to attend this debate, which is absolutely untrue. I suppose they're following this session mediaically, I don't know how else to address them, there's no reason for anyone not to attend the session, but they have to follow all the rules of procedure of this respected House of Parliament. So they know very well that a request is necessary to provide a list of lawyers, or persons who want to attend the session, to enter this room. This applies to all professions, and so does respected fellow lawyers. As they spoke to individual parliamentary groups earlier, I think the MPs were obliged to instruct them in the procedure of entering this hall, so that there would be no need to misinformed the public that something was banned and to give character immediately in a statement by the authorities, as their reason for the professional presence here was passed, they wanted to follow the debate, and here they gave strict political evaluations. I'm looking in your direction by chance, because I prefer to look in the direction of the opposition. So, I ask the representatives of the Serbian Bar Association to respect the procedure of this respected home and not to misinform the public, because it is not necessary at all, it is a serious issue that we are seriously discussing. The minister has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12734	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Madam President, you can say that and so it's very linguistically correct. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been asked one question that I have to answer - have I ever seen a political hatred like this? I've known a colleague Martinovic for a long time, and not that his last thought was to call on someone's lynch, but a man doesn't even have a shred of such a phenomenon in his behavior. He is known as one of the best speakers in this congregation. But I have to say something else based on what's been going on in the past few months, when the great human rights defenders have been silent when they're looking to frame the incident of the Prime Minister's son on an abortion in Belgrade, so they're not answering. All of a sudden, no one's going to criticize the police. So when the whole of Serbia was terrified, she watched his own brother beat himself up and torture him and keep quiet about it. No, it's not any political hatred. No, it's just not the same when he gets beat up by my brother and gets beat up by a political insinuator and the police, a cop, or whoever. No, they're, you know, government officials, they're not human rights people. No, these are the people you can hit and spit on and attack and do whatever you want, so when you send him and organize, not you, but someone does it, the messenger of death to the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and Nikola Sandulovic was the messenger of death to the late Zoran Djindjic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12735	Minister, you've got two minutes and 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12736	... Then you can do it. Well, he can't. I'm done. If you think we're gonna watch you beat up our family members, how you're sending us the death certificates of those who did it, if that's what they thought, so don't let them think that they're looking at us to step in front of them and not engage in a fight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12737	Thank you. The replica has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not sue Mr Stefanovic, because I do not have that practice, I fight politically, although everything he said on my account is not true. But I'm surprised Mr. Zivkovic hasn't resigned until now. Here is the solution of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade – an economic criminal case is suspended against the accused "Asumakum d.o.o." from Belgrade, Student Street No. 15, as a legal person and Vucic Andrej from Belgrade, Krunska No. 47, as a person’s liability, due to the economic offences referred to in Article 68(1) point (12) and (1) of Article 2(2). Accounting and audit laws. What, Mr. Zivkovic, do you not resign, and you promised? You're a moral man. Here is your official note – Ministry of Finance, Tax Administration, 9 February 2011, former regime in power. What does the official note say? A further check was carried out to compare the photocopy of Andrej Vukic's identity card, which was obtained from the "Findometics of the Bank" with the ID card that Andrej Vukic made to the tax police inspector and was found in 2011, during the former regime, that the photo of the person from the photocopy of the ID card did not match the character of Andrej Vukic, that the photocopy of the ID card as a serial number was listed SR16252141, and the date of issue was 15 February 2007, while Andrej Vukić made an insight into the tax police inspector with a serial number of completely different and the date of issue of the same March 7th 2007, that no change of residence was recorded in the photocopy, while Andrej Vukic was recorded in the personal card of Andrej Vukic's residence at the address of Novi Belgrade, the Antifascist fight. 17/34. Why don't you resign, Mr. Zivkovic? The tax administration of the former regime has proven you're wrong. This is where you publicly invited the Prime Minister to resign, or he or you, if proven wrong. Why don't you resign? Here's your proof.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12739	Time. Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic wants to answer the question or... ? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) You are responsible for your replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You won't give me? It's a sequel... Yes, the dictatorial regime. I really like that dictatorial thing. And you have to be sure, or are you gonna slap me or what? [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am asking for the right to replication.]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: As usual. As usual? Here you go. I want to show what violence against the chairman looks like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12740	Your job is to hold a session of the Assembly, not to prove anything. I've never in any way hurt you, or offended you, or threatened you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12741	Don't rephrase to me. You wanted to answer the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12742	... And you're replicating me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12743	I'm not replicating, I'm deciding whether to give or not to give the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12744	To the previous speaker to read - APR Republika Srpska, Agency for Business Registers, search of companies, the company is called "Asumakum d.o.o." New Belgrade, today, means, it is current data, the name and name of Andrej Vukic, the personal number of this and that, coincides with the date of birth. I don't want to educate wise lawyers, but whether it's a fake or not, it doesn't determine either the tax administration or the police or the prosecution, it's decided by the court, so you, like Friday or whatever it's called, don't know what Mr. Stefanovic said, you should know that. That's what kids at law school know. So I expect you to know that. I don't know why it was the subject of all this. I have not offered anyone a bet in this House, because I leave these bar manners to those who have brought them to this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12745	Don't call parliament a bar, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12746	I didn't say that, and I'm asking you to listen to me. So, those who brought bar manners to this sacred home called Parliament. Do I have to do it again?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12747	Repeat, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12748	So, the fact that radicalism has started to contaminate again here, that we have people here who break Article 107 with their presence. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it has nothing to do with me or any other brother's company, and leave bets outside, you're dealing with facts here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12749	I thank you for the time you've devoted to me. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12750	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, and it is a matter of dignity, because you did not warn in time, while you were in the O.R., Mr. Minister Selakovic, and before you came to Mr. Martinovic's room in the part where he spoke of a certain...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12751	Be kind, only by direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, while you were in the O.R. 45 minutes ago. So he can't. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12752	How can he not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12753	No, you can't. It's a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12754	Here, until a few minutes ago you were in the O.R., Mr. Selakovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12755	You said when you were.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12756	Can you give me back my time, 'cause this really isn't right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12757	I can't give you any time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12758	I don't have enough time for one minute to explain the conduct of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12759	I guess. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12760	Mr. Minister, along with Mr. Martinovic, mentioned on several occasions a certain Sandulovic who was once a member of the DS board. I know it's a complete lie, number one. Under number two, it is neither the first nor the last time that the representatives of this regime from those days and today continue to be accounted for in this way with Zoran Djindjic's policy and attempted criminalisation of that policy and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12761	Please don't mention Zoran Djindjic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12762	Please warn your colleagues not to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12763	I ask all MPs not to mention the murdered prime minister. I beg you, on my behalf and on behalf of the family, with whom I am very close. Therefore, I personally ask you, not as president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12764	Then act on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12765	I hope that my request will be met, and many people outside this building. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12766	Mr. President, I've been on the phone for a long time. Art. 106th and 107th.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12767	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12768	I think so. Just to explain, the minister did it directly. I just want to ask the minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12769	He can't. Please find a member we haven't hurt yet. There's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12770	I said, "Article 106."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12771	Article 106 can, Article 107 can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12772	So the minister is completely off topic right now saying something that's not only off topic and it has nothing to do with what we're talking about today, and I think you had to react, you were in the O.R. Minister, I don't mind you saying, absolutely nothing, just one sentence I ask you to publicly apologize for. You said: We will not allow you to beat our relatives, friends and brothers. And you looked at us and you said, "We won't let you beat us and attack us on the street." And you know well that we have condemned the attack on the prime minister's brother, as we have condemned every act of violence and the use of excessive force that has clearly occurred. Why did you just say that? And why are you telling us you won't let us? We attack you on the street? Are you aware of what you said? Who's going to attack you? A small opposition? You, who have all the levers of power in your hands? We attack you? It's the only thing that bothered me. Everyone heard that. Either specify what you said or apologize. Because it's a very hard charge. So we attacked the Prime Minister's brother? Please, don't do that kind of thing. Because someone might think...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12773	You are now replicating, and you have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Borko Stefanovic, from the scene: I told you what mattered to me. I know, I'm taking two minutes for it because you admitted it yourself, you said – I said what was my intention. Two minutes less groups. (Borko Stefanovic, from the scene: I told you what was important to me about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's a done deal. Article 106, do you want us to plead for the injury? No, I don't. Mr. Stefanovic, you've been written by the Bar Association. It is not correct that you did not protect parliament and that you did not give them instructions on how to enter parliament. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Who says I'm not? Why do you speak directly to me that way? And the others got the letter. How do you know I didn't give them the right information? How do you know? Or maybe you doubt me? Now you're telling Mr. Stefanovic, now you're surprised it doesn't suit you... Say it all the way. I gave them instructions... () Answer the word so I can replicate it for you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: It's okay, but no one heard what I said. ) I think that the conditions will soon be obtained to replicate the dictatorial regime in parliament and to respond to the violation of Article 106, which was not there. What this chairman will never do, that is, what my predecessors did, or one predecessor, who excluded MPs who did not attend the assembly meeting and forbade them from participating in the debate for 40 days. So much for the democratic regime before this regime. If you want us to vote on Article 106's injury, we'll vote. And this I guarantee you that the president will never rule out a parliamentary group that is not present in parliament during the session. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Do you know that sounds like a threat? ) No, that sounds like a response to the violation of the Rules of Procedure from your parliamentary group, three or four already injured Rules of Procedure, and you are threatening the chairman rather than chairing in the opposite direction. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12774	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no idea that I apologize for something I haven't said, especially when part of my sentence is ripped out of context. Look at me as you looked at me just before I said: I am not speaking to you personally, but to whoever is behind it. And you can see it through the stenographic notes. I, as responsible minister in my government, will every time I react to the president of my government and the government of my country, someone sends someone to the foreign country of the messenger of death of the murdered Serbian Prime Minister. And I mentioned Sandulovic in that sense. Nikola Sandulovic announced death to the Serbian government four or five days before the 2003 assassination of the Prime Minister. And this man was sent by someone organized to London to make a scandal, to insult the state of Serbia, to insult its Prime Minister. Whoever did this, I call on law enforcement authorities to establish it and say it. That's what I'm calling it. But don't tell me that I accused you of something like that. As a party, you've been through something that I don't want any of the foreigners in Serbia to go through, which is that the president of the party and the man who was the Prime Minister, whatever he thought politically of him, was the Prime Minister, my, yours, ours. It's a horror when someone's president of a government kills. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country where someone did it a decade ago. I do not want Serbia to be a country where it will ever happen again. But personally, as a minister in this government, as a man, as a member of the SNS, I am concerned about the security of my Prime Minister and that is why I have to react when you talk about the lynch, because he is being held over someone's family members.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12775	Time. Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept everything Zoran Zivkovic said about me -- and that I'm a radical, and that I'm a war criminal, and that he's my founder of the party who knows who, I didn't understand him, but it doesn't matter. But what's wrong with the next one? "Employment of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade – An economic and criminal case against Andrej Vukic is suspended"? Here you go. Furthermore, what is radicalism, what are the bar manners, is the official note of the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, where it is said, in addition to the allegations that all the falsified ID card of Andrej Vukic: "On the basis of the above, it has been found that the registration of the company "Asumakum d.o.o." from Belgrade, as well as the opening of the current account of this company at "Findomestik Bank" was carried out on the basis of falsified ID cards by Andrej Vukic and Ivan Bozinovski". This is on page 3. On page 4, it says: "The verification did not determine who forged the identity cards of Andrej Vukic and Ivan Bozinovski, whose photographs were on forged ID cards, and who was actually doing the business of Asumakum d.o.o. from Belgrade." Key line: "On the basis of forward facts, there is a reasonable doubt that the company Asumakum d.o.o from Belgrade can be classified into a group called the so-called "Asumum d.o". the company’s concept of companies, i.e. companies, which, in a significant extent, avoid paying taxes.’ When a man here reads official acts, the official papers of the Serbian state, though under the former regime, not under the regime, as you say, Alexander Vukic, then I am a radical, war criminal here, ask God what I am, and you as a moral man should say nicely – Mr. Vukic, you were right, I lied and I am resigning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12777	Replication expired, two minutes. Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Babic is waiting on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12778	I thank you, Madam Chairman. We've heard different excuses here. A few weeks ago, what he referred in response to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Zivkovic, was not a bet. The bet is when you say - I can do this better, let's bet I can do this better, or I can do it faster. But to say -- that's not true, because if it's true, I'm ready to withdraw, and if you've said something that's not true, back off, it's a matter of honor. And whoever disqualifies it with some terms, the barman, who has polluted this Assembly by threatening Mr. Shormaz to be on the lamppost, telling Mr. Vuceti Toskovic for a moment, that he is a member of an animal species, I do not want to mention it, and of course he is not in the stenogram, because there is one who was speaking in the stenogram, and that is Mr. Petar Petrovic. I wish the gentleman who calls it that often confirms to the academic honor that Mr. Zivkovic did not say such a thing. But what to expect from those who question honor, the question of responsibility brought before all 249 MPs by Mr. Vukic, before the Serbian public, which Mr. Vukic presented, the willingness to defend the truth both with his career and position. No, on the other hand, we have one who's going to step over that honesty because it's gone, just for staying in a position to repeat and repeat lies, inventions, plantings, just to bring down one system, which of these countries, since two years ago, has started to create a decent and normal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12779	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12780	We got one interesting thing, it seems to me a very expert explanation of what a bet is, which is not, which is to call on one another and I'm not surprised, because we really had an expert in this area, so the matchmaking is one serious part of the action in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12781	Can we do a little language today?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12782	That's what I wanted to tell you next. Otherwise, the stenogram says, "What is it, monkey?" It's written in two places. He writes what a monkey is and writes what a monkey is. It says here that you said it to a respected colleague, a bet expert. I don't see any reason for you to say what you said, and it says here, that you're telling me. You read it. I've been reading. As for the previous speaker sitting next to you, you can repeat it a hundred times. That's what I said last time, I'll tell you again. What is a fake, and what is not, Mr. Honorable Lawyer, under the nickname given to you by a respected colleague Stefanovic? It's the court's jurisdiction to determine what's fake and what's not. With all due respect and deputy director of the tax administration, which stands out to sit at the coffee table in one of the morning programs, with one of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12783	MP, we're not gonna talk in the media right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12784	No, we're not talking about the media, because I don't think you have a concentration today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12785	I do, I don't want to characterize the media. You're a supporter of that to skip the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12786	If you want me not to talk today, let me know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12787	But it's already been seen. That caliber syndrome, I don't think the public is responding to it anymore. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12788	I hardly look like a callimeter to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12789	You have as many rights as the citizens of Serbia have given you. I'm nothing here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12790	You have a whole chicken farm near you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12791	Thank you. The public will judge how I lead and how you express yourself. A break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, regular. According to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Are any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the list of registered MPs. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12793	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are before us two laws, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Registration and a bill on amendments to the Law on Transport of Immobility. I must point out that in August of the month before the National Assembly there was a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration, as well as the Law on Transport of Immobility, that public notebooks entered the territory of the Republic of Serbia on 1 September and that it is indeed a small but historic step in legal certainty for both Serbian citizens and potential investors, as well as for the Serbian state itself. The adoption of these laws is important from the point of view of legal certainty, but it is also important from the aspect of economic security, from the aspect of those who want to invest and those who want to have clear legal legislation in this regard. I also want to point out what no one has pointed out so far. After 84 years, this government and this Ministry of Justice for the first time introduced a notary profession as a highly professional legal profession which, of course, has public authority. Therefore, it is certainly a step forward, but great praise for this government and for the competent ministry, because in developed Western-European countries these notary jobs have been done for centuries. Let's not only touch the regulated Western European countries, which, of course, the SNS, this government and this minister are trying to turn around a little bit and around our neighbours. All countries in the region have public notaries, or notaries. I must point out that Macedonia, as one of the former member states of the former SFRY, has had this judicial category for 10 years. Also, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, Slovenia have in their legal regulations and interest notaries. As the minister himself noted in his opening statement, so-called The Republic of Kosovo has managed to introduce this very important profession into its judicial system, which is a notary profession. Of course, in the period from 1930 to 1944, this profession existed in our country, but unfortunately, from then to September 1st, this profession was unknown. I have repeatedly said that the jurisdiction of the justice minister is extremely responsible, extremely large, because in a broken judicial system as it was, as the representatives of the previous regime left behind, it certainly wasn't easy and it couldn't move forward quickly. The collapse of the legal system creates a significant space for corruptive action, for crime and corruption. The ministry run by Minister Selakovic also adopted a strategic document on crime and corruption control. It is precisely in the repression of crime and corruption and that legal certainty is important for both citizens and the regulated legal order of a country. What is on our agenda today is that Article 1 amends Article 4 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Transport of immovableity Act, and the essential addition in fact refers to the fact that in the transport of immovableity which can be drawn up as a public record can also be drawn up in writing, by the fact that the citizen is obliged to take this contract in writing to the public notary for the sake of solemnisation, i.e. for translation and for the non-public document. I must point out that for the overu both of the public records and of the written contracts, the authority of the public notary is excluded by the authority of the public notary in which the immovableity is located. I think that each of us has a longer memory and each one of us, and I personally know more than five people who, in the previous regime, made contracts, were left without their real estate, or had no apartments purchased, precisely for the reason that only the oversigned signatures were carried out without the essential entry into the character of the contract itself, so there were more owners on the same apartment. Whoever first entered that apartment seemed to be staying in that apartment. All other owners had to press charges to get their assets legally regulated by the contract. What I want first of all to point out is that these amendments and additions to the law continue to protect citizens' interests in the best way. For what reason are the interests of the citizens protected? The first reason and first objective of certification and these written contracts in public notebooks is the aim of authenticity. What's the point of authenticity? That means it's almost impossible to forge. The second goal to be achieved is precision and accuracy. What does that mean? Public notebooks are in accordance with Article 71 of the legal obligation to take in detail and precisely in their statement free of charge and to state such will, the Contracting Parties, or parties wishing to make a contract. What else is very important to achieve? Implience. What does it mean to be full-time? Fullness means full compliance with the law and with legislation. What I also want to point out is that, as far as the amendments to the Law on Public Records are concerned, there have been some changes, and these changes relate to the part relating to the seat and board of the public notebook, i.e. that the public notebook can change the residence if it is selected as a public notary until the moment the oath is taken in the seat for which it is designated. It also amends a member of the law relating to the competition of public notebooks, which is that the competition is announced for the needs of a municipality, but of course it can also be for more units of local self-government, so this member of the law is changed in the sense that the candidate can compete not for all and individual ones, but for all units of local self-government for which the competition is sought. Of course, the SNS in the voting day will support these amendments to the law, above all, because they contribute to the rule of law and to the legal security of citizens. Finally, let me not forget, the Serbian Progressive Foreigner, this government, and all of us in the first place should be the interests and needs of citizens. I would hate for it to happen that in the protection of those most vulnerable, and these are minors, as the case almost happened in Sremska Mitrovica, there is no adequate legal protection for a minor victim of rape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12794	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12795	Another example is that one bad government and one bad government can destroy something that is essentially a good thing and a good intention, which is in this case a public record situation. From whether there is a constitutional basis for forming such a public function, because some who know right much better than I do, that Article 67(2) does not give that constitutional possibility, until the whole process of establishing this function is compromised, demonized, criminalized, and all from the position of government. The beginning of all these bad things is in the previous government, the one before 2012, but the worst things about it have been done by those who hold power today, i.e. the current government in the resignation, to which the present minister belongs. What happened? It happened, among other things, that in the last 30 days and a few days from the same minister from the same ministry in the same government, we get two versions of the same law. 30 and a few days ago, the Real Estate Transport Act was presented as genius, as the highest level of legal Serbian theory and practice, and today we have an even better solution, allegedly. In this situation, the New Party will not be appointed as a judge between the ambitious Ministry, Minister and Government, lawyers and notaries, but it is our job to take care of citizens' interests. It is for the interests of Serbian citizens that one important function, which is passed on by these laws to notaries, is to be transferred into an atmosphere that will guarantee the legal security of Serbian citizens. That's not the case today. On the contrary, it has never been more threatened by the legal certainty of citizens than today. There are great stories about notaries to solve all problems, that real estate traffic will be perfect, that the record of a public notebook will remove all potential problems from someone who sells or buys real estate, which is completely untrue. No notary record can give any guarantee. The fact that, in the near and distant past, situations have taken place for people to buy an apartment, so they can't get into it, that's the same question for the state, that's neither a question for lawyers nor an opposition. Thirty percent of the fees of notaries, the exclusive, the most special people in Serbia, which are only 94, 95, goes to the budget with this proposal 30%, i.e. the judiciary budget. And what's the matter so far? Where'd that money go now? It is a public secret that the notaries in the last month since they can do their job in Belgrade earn from data from Belgrade's tax administration between 50m and the extreme 180m euros in one case and that the division is such that they remain 20% and that 80% go to those who have placed them on those functions. Now those who have placed them on these functions, through the criminal approach of their choices, exams and all that preceded their appointment, are now denied 30% generously. It also throws itself at honest notaries, which, of course, it has. And there are honest people there. If it's really the most important job in the country, what do we think it is, so why doesn't it keep doing the state, like it did in the last 30, 40 years? The New Party's proposal is to put out of office, namely to abolish the Notary Act, to approach the creation of a new law within the next six months, of course, with the new Government, since it resigned and to get a healthy start in this situation for an important function. Finally, the minister mentioned a certain Sandulovic earlier as the man who announced the murder of Zoran Djindjic. The murder of Zoran Djindjic was announced by Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12796	Ambassador, please... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I can give you evidence, so you can turn off 100 times the power... I'm gonna shut down how someone's gonna talk about killing the prime minister. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12797	Madam President, again in a similar manner in the last word, in the last sentence, when you can't really react, it's true again, and that's that the government is resigning. I answer to everyone – thank you for asking, we are fine, unfortunately for you, but for the joy of the citizens of Serbia. This government is working under the leadership of Mr. Alexander Vukic, because it is a wish not for the citizens who voted for the previous speaker, not for the most immediate relatives who voted for them, but for more than 50% of the citizens of Serbia who went to the March elections, giving both the legality and legitimacy and Alexander Vukic and this Government of the Republic of Serbia. This government cannot be torn down by a man whose resignation is expected in the public as well, that he has political and parliamentary congratulations on the office, but 249 MPs are also expected. So the answer to the lie is not the first, and I'm sure not the last time. The government is working on reforms, the government is working to change our country, to change for the better, on a clear European path, and the only resignation expected, if it were political congratulations, would be from the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12798	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because it's impossible to know what the speakers are going to say in advance, but it's been repeated so many times that I really don't want to comment. The word has a folk MP, Marijan Rističević, let the MP Vesna Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12799	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you've all heard that my colleague, a farmer, in a vineyard-calemarian manner, has accused the authorities of sharing with public notaries the money from a public-recorded reward of 80% to those who have placed it and 20% to the notaries. So if I'm not telling the truth, I definitely need to check the stenogram, and I think my colleague just used that expression and those sentences to share income notes with those who set them up, or 80 to 20%, and 80% to those who set them up. So it's a crime of corruption. In the knowledge that a crime was committed, my colleague was to file criminal charges against all those involved in the corruption shop. If there is no crime, then there is a crime called a false criminal record. I ask Mr. Martinovic to take this into account and to draw up a criminal report as a lawyer in connection with the criminal offence of false reporting, unless my predecessor's colleague has reported a criminal offence charged by the pregnant authorities to share with public notebooks income from a public-book prize. As far as the bill is concerned, I will certainly support it, although I have most often discussed these amendments and amendments to the law, which was passed in 2011, even adopted one of my amendments, which extended the application of the law by six months from what the government had proposed, because then I knew and assumed that the implementation of something new in Serbia, as it turned out, would go very hard, that this would come across many resistances, but I did not believe that such resistance would be, especially with lawyers who had some objections. I welcome the fact that the Justice Minister has found a common language with lawyers. I support even some of the demands of the lawyers, who are moderate and for the benefit of the citizens. I support the opinion of the Citizens' Protector, I hope you have all received and read, which on the Law on Public Libraries and in the situation which arose on 31 October, but I am surprised that these objections, which relate to the law and to the public notebooks in general, followed the proposals adopted by the Government a day earlier. So, on the 30th, the government corrected what the Citizens' Protector drew attention to the Law on Public Records on 31 October with his own opinion. I have objections, and I would like the minister of justice to examine the amount of tariff, especially for farmers. It is a wonder that my previous colleague did not discuss this, especially about mortgages, because farmers do so every year, in order to renew agricultural production, to obtain re-promatter, to restore machinery. Every year, they lay down their assets, so they can rebuild the seed year. With that in mind, it's not a classic mortgage you give once in 10 years. They give it every year. I had amendments to that kind, and in such cases I should also consider that in these situations, which arises from the renewal of agricultural production, where mortgages are often given, and sometimes several times in the year, come into contact with agricultural producers, that these statements that verify, that the tariff is lower than for citizens who do so for credits, work once every five years because the agricultural profession is special, because money is hard to come by, because money is turned once a year, and sometimes over several years, because every year you have to sow and plant, while for that purpose you do not have enough money, you have to pawn some of the property every year. Therefore, for them it is in a certain way too expensive and it should be considered that in such situations this public-book tariff, in all other justified situations, is reduced. As for the Guardian's opinion, I respect him in part. I'm glad the Ministry respected him, too, by what the Ministry did a day earlier, before the Citizens' Protector mustered the courage to announce it. I welcome that in certain positions the Guardian of Citizens and the Ministry of Justice has been found. I am one who, unlike you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not just have words of praise for the Guardian of the Citizens, because in his opinion he forgot the citizens. So he sided with the lawyer, and I say hello. Lawyers are part of a civil society. With full right, he has the right to protect certain citizens, but in his opinion he forgot that he very selectively assessed citizens' rights. What about the rights of the citizens, the victims, the rights of the citizens who have been damaged in committing crimes against certain persons, who have been released because of a strike by lawyers? Thus, such an act can be repeated against the same or other citizens. I wish the Citizens' Protector, in addition to this opinion, which mainly referred to the Ministry of Justice, had found it appropriate to note, in his opinion, that the right of citizens to be punished by a certain act of detention, because the perpetrator may commit a new crime against him or anyone else. So the rights of the victim and the rights of the victims were compromised and the Protector of the citizens had to deal with them. I ask – what about serious human rights violations, the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security? The right to freedom, Mr. Minister, is one of the fundamental rights and the greatest right of one man, one individual. So, for no time, the Guardian of the Citizens has wondered what is wrong with the rights of detainees, whose detention takes 50 days longer than anticipated because they do not have a lawyer to be present, in order to end the detention measure. The right to freedom is one of the fundamental rights and the Protector of the Citizens, who was to be raised that detention lasted five minutes longer than anticipated, was to raise himself and his assistants, both before, which he and his assistants have paid between 310 and over 350,000 dinars a month. The freedom of any citizen and detainee, who is not yet guilty, that is the stage of the investigation, should have been sacred to the Protector of the citizens and to one whose freedom is threatened, or abolished. Apparently, the Guardian of Citizens, whose opinion here is ahead of us, is selective. He said here in the middle of the assembly that my rights do not interest him, that I would be the last one whose rights he would protect. I thanked him on that occasion and said: "When he protects me, then I am surely done." Except for some high salary and political statements he makes, I don't believe, and I don't see the Guardian treating all citizens and lawyers the same way, and among the lawyers, I have to say, there are over 50% of those who would work and their right to work is also compromised. So, as citizens, as lawyers, as someone who has the right to work, his rights have also been compromised, and thus the High Protector of Citizens has not been engaged and I fear that he is engaged in protecting his non-small rights and his large salaries, on which, Mr. Minister, the Protector of Citizens and some other representatives of the regulatory bodies, took £600 a month to write, from an international donation, a draft law on alarmers. Eighteen months they were taking money to write a very bad draft, and that's an addition to a salary of 310 to 350,000 dinars. Such a Protector of citizens should sweat well for such pay and take care of the rights of citizens. As far as these laws are concerned, I'll definitely support it, no matter what law I don't know which way it changes. So the government of the people of the people for the people should rule in the name of the people, not just rule over the people. I'll support this. As far as my colleague's predecessor is concerned, I'm asking the Minister of Justice, since there's been a lot of talk here about a certain murder, I'm asking him to check these photos. It is a performance that my predecessor, together with the Republic Interior Minister, held in favour of the Special Operations Unit at the end of 2002, and as you know, an investigation is under way and the Citizens' Protector should be dealt with by you, Mr. Minister, as an investigation into the political background of the murder is under way. So, I'm asking you when it's been discussed, I'm going to give you these photos...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12800	Ambassador, please return to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12801	I'm going back on the subject, so I just support this law, and I'm going to hand over the photos to the Justice Minister and let him see if they're authentic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12802	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12803	Just to spend a little more of my time and the time of the unfortunate citizens of Serbia under this authority and to deny what is clear to everyone, which is that "it" has again brought the lie. It was a concert, if I remember correctly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12804	Ambassador, I didn't understand this now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12805	... that it was a concert held in 2002 organised by the Serbian Ministry of Interior for Citizens of the Tower. It has nothing to do with the Special Operations Unit, which was then part of Serbia's MUP, but it's only one extension of something that would... How can I tell you, if I were to explain what the predecessor said, I would have to use many nasty, disgusting expressions that would surely disrupt the peaceful dream of Serbian citizens, which is not my goal. It's enough for Serbian citizens to have a government like this, in resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12806	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't claim anything. Since certain photographs were delivered to me, it was my duty to check it by handing over these photographs to the justice minister and not claiming them to be authentic. My predecessor most likely confirmed with his speech the authenticity of the photographs that took place, according to what I received in late 2002, a few months before the assassination of the Prime Minister in Coola, where he...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12808	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12809	I'm sorry, I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12810	Keep going, please just pay attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12811	Madam Chairman, you have those photos, I've got them. My obligation was to hand them over to the minister of justice, as at the end of 2002, it reportedly took place, with the organisation of authorities, the republican alliance, with the presence of the federal and republican interior ministers and future vice-presidents of the government, to have a party in favour of the Special Operations Unit, who was later suspected and certain members convicted of killing the prime minister for whom I voted. With that in mind, I had no insinuation, I just forwarded the photos to the minister of justice for further treatment, to assess whether it was the original photographs or the photo montage. My predecessor seems to have confirmed all the allegations I got with those photos and something else in the end, he can try to insult me as much as he wants. Insulting me can only be better than me, worse ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12812	The word has the People's MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government in resignation, as far as I know, Mr Selakovic, honored guests...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12814	Ambassador, I will no longer allow you to say that there is someone in the resignation if it isn't. We keep talking to the public, for 24 hours, and we stand responsibly behind the words we say, but you tell the truth. I've tolerated the full seven days since it started.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12815	So I think he's a injured member of 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which paragraph 1 states that the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda under investigation. I ask you, Mr Risticevic, who spoke before and before, he did not speak twice about what the agenda point was and most of the time in his speech dedicated something that had nothing to do with our debate on public records and on the traffic of immobility and these bill proposals. First he spoke of the Citizens' Protector, who had given his opinion, but he used time to criticise the Citizens' Protector for not being a subject, and then he showed up here with some photographs that we also concluded were not about our agenda, so the debate on amendments to the Law on Public Records and amendments to the Law on Transport of Immobility. There are other places, respected presidents of the National Assembly, where every MP can show, present or show any photographs, and then talk about these photographs, but our Assembly Hall here should serve for one, as the minister said, appropriate, precise, clear and verifiable debate on our bill's proposals, respected presidents of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12816	Thank you. Article 106 wasn't hurt because in this second part it was a replica, as far as I know, and the photographs were submitted. I'm not going to tell you what's on the photos and which site it was downloaded from, so it doesn't prejudge the investigation. Please adopt the suggestion of the previous speaker, MP Risticevic, so repeat that tomorrow and refer the question to the competent ministry. I return the photos to the Minister of Justice. You want to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12817	The Rules of Procedure of Madam President, article 107, has been broken on two occasions. Once a colleague of Zivkovic called Mr. Marijan Risticevic twice a colleague, a colleague as an MP and a colleague as a farmer, a farmer with a word – that. In this way the MP, Mr Risticevic, is also belittled, and the National Assembly. I would ask that part of the stenogram be shared with all the MPs and all the people, the journalists in the National Assembly's lobby to see what we are facing here and what kind of street jargon. On the other hand, this Rules of Procedure is being abused. When Mr. Marijan Risticevic spoke and held these pictures he brought and directed to the minister of justice, Mr. Selakovic, of course it had something to do with this law. He sent these pictures and photographs to the government's representatives to solemnize to determine the actual state. You see that we need notaries, you see that we need to determine the truth, you see that we need to solemnize, you see that it is necessary to determine why children were used in these images for political purposes, and who appeared from the former JSO and what the ministers were doing, not in The Tower, why didn't they come to India? They didn't come to India because it wasn't JSO in India, but don't let anything Mr. Risticevic gave, brought out and used to solemnize, to determine all the facts, to talk about it as a violation of the rules of procedure, because Mr. Risticevic behaves and works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Labour.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12818	Thank you. I ask the services to accept the suggestion, to share all MPs, all 250 MPs, part of the stenogram in which MP Zivkovic addresses Marijan Risticevic as he lectured some photographs of the minister of justice. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. We're back on the subject. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Let MP Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12819	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, for me today's agenda was first good news because it was obvious that the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Records and the Law on Transport of Immobility, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, admitted the mistake it made at the end of August of this year and proposed a correction and its mistake, which is certainly a good thing, especially when without great pressure, this error and correction were made. However, the bad news that follows this good news is that the RS government's recognition of a mistake is not complete. It's not complete. It is a declarative amendment which again puts public notebooks' interests in the first place and, above all, the financial interests of public notaries, and much less their professional interests, and has not been taken into account again whether the proposals were in line with the Constitution and the legal order and again did not take into account the protection of the interests of citizens or the protection of the interests of lawyers and courts. I'll take the turn. As of September 1st this year, it began with the work of a public record service with the exclusive right of public notebooks that only they and no one else, citizens themselves, or courts, or lawyers can in the form of a public record make a real estate contract. For nothing are the most professional people in this country, top lawyers, such as Prof. Vesna Rakic Vednelic, former Supreme Court judge Zoran Ivosevic and many others, then the Association of Judges of Serbia, then all of the legal chambers warned that it was contrary to the Constitution and the legal order, that only public notebooks could produce and verify a real estate contract. The RS government and the ruling parliamentary majority in this assembly voted on such a proposed text of the law that gives exclusive rights to public notaries to draft and certify fixed-state contracts. This led to a complete collapse in the state's legal system, and I will look back on what I am personally concerned with as a lawyer and which I am directly familiar with. So, all the lawyers, in protest over the adoption of such rules, suspended the work and the minister of justice instead of immediately starting talks with authorised representatives of the bar, tried first to make a decision at the government's session that puts aside instructions that the government had not even taken, so it couldn't even put out of force. Not to compromise on public powers that have not been transferred to the bar in that segment, and the RS government has no real control over that part of the chamber's work at all. Then when that didn't give the expected result. In the media, there were threats of prosecution for something qualified as obstruction of justice. There have been attempts at personal discrediting of many fellow lawyers and have tried in every way to disrupt the unity that has been achieved in the bar. I must truly confess that you have succeeded something that neither Broz nor you have called upon him in the previous part of the debate. So that's not even Broz was able to get together with one unity and lawyers who are guilty and lawyers who are litigators and lawyers who have decades of work experience and those who are beginners and lawyers from all possible parties and non-party personalities. So that's what you really did. Lawyers live off the law. When lawyers stop their work, they don't work. When they don't work, they don't earn, and the great pain has made them stop their work. No one, without great reason, will stop their work and deprive themselves of the opportunity to earn. We'll agree that the reasons for such a thing are big and serious and that's exactly what happened. I very much respect that in the previous days you have made an effort to find a common acceptable solution with the representatives of the bar, but we seem to have lost valuable time. It seems to me that it should have come to this right away and it seems to me, however, when I saw the proposed changes that it was actually made to create a cover for these changes of the law. Therefore, the proposed changes are completely disregarded the right of citizens to decide independently in the area of private law, as well as to decide whether or not they will seek legal assistance from whom. It is not respected by the proposed amendments or by the attorneys as an independent and independent service, which, under the current Constitution, provides legal assistance, which is to provide legal assistance between all other scopes and the right to draw up, i.e. making legal transactions. What concerns me particularly here is that the Constitution does not respect the principle of independence of the judicial authority, especially with regard to the executive power, because now the executive authority is devoting the judiciary and all its trust to the public record service that started working only on September 1st of this year. It hasn't grown enough yet, it hasn't left itself alone, and not only now, in terms of court jurisdiction, the courts are being dissipated, but what can be even more significant, which is to dissipate financially. Now that it is proposed that 30% of the total revenue charged are due to the notebooks to pay on the public revenue account, I first don't know where the 30% percentage is from, why not 50, why not 45, why not 20? The other thing that's causing me a dilemma, what's the kind of imposition now for public notebooks these 30%? Is that some new tax? Is that some new tax? What exactly does this 30% represent for public notebooks? I am not in any book, and I have really many of them that concern professional literature, and not even in the Legal Examining Manual, I have not been able to find them, looking through the historical aspect, through comparative law, what is the interest of the state to interfere in private affairs that fall within the scope of bond law, therefore, in private law, and therefore insisting on public documents. By the way, when I talk about public documents, I have to correct some colleagues who obviously mix public justice with a public executive, because every public document doesn't have to be automatic and enforceable, and secondly, when you have an executive order, Minister, then you don't go to the police with an executive order, but you're talking to the court to initiate an enforcement procedure or you're talking to an enforcer, but you certainly don't. So, I think it's completely unnecessary to involve the state in what's called private citizens' rights. Public notaries are given some super powers to assess what is in the interest of the immovable owner, what is his rightful will, whether the price achieved is real market or not, etc. And I really don't understand what public interest is in it. You said that the public interest, here, I wrote, is that in some previous period, multiple sales of the same immovableity are increasing. So, the situation where the same seller sells the same immovableity to different persons. But, please, it's not a contract issue, it's a contract record problem. By introducing a public notary, you will not increase the level of legal certainty. I'm particularly telling you because, given the circumstances, I have here a copy of the public record, but in mass all the records with the same content, where the public notary says that the parties involved are responding, so not the public notebook, but the participants are responsible for the accuracy of the documentation delivered, without the obligation of the public notary to personally verify the submitted contributions. Now tell me this guarantees legal certainty. No, this only guarantees that the public notebook will charge its record-making service, i.e. the contract's verifications, without making a minimum effort to make sure that the documentation, provided by the parties, is indeed checked in the Catastres. As far as I'm concerned, as someone who's an MP from the opposition, you're a great minister to me, because what you're doing practically, I think you're underestimating the level of legal literacy and citizens and professions, and the profession and citizens remember that well. As they remembered about the judge's reelection case, I'm afraid they'll remember well in the election of public notebooks. But, as a colleague of yours, I really call on you and I urge you to make another effort and, together with, not just lawyers, but people who have spent their whole life committed to the matter that is the subject of these proposed changes, to find a solution that will really contribute to what we all want, which is legal certainty and simplified legal traffic, above all immobilities. Therefore, I propose that the fixed-state contracts be concluded as so far, so in writing, which public notebooks will either legalise or solemnize. Therefore, either they will only verify the signatures, or, if the parties involved in the proceedings have some interest in making this private correction public and solemnising, they will verify their content, not to condition the conclusion of the immovableity agreement by making public records, so that, in so doing, they do not type the text that the parties have brought to the public notary on the cover, but that a special public record act would be attached, which would be an integral part of that legal work, and would, in fact, enable both citizens and lawyers to make their own contracts. This is how we stay at the level of mere declarations that will in practice have no application. I also urge you again to consider the amendments that we have submitted carefully and to go out to the citizens, not to a small number of people, so small that even their chambers were unable to establish in accordance with the law that this Assembly has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12820	The People's MP Marko Atlagic has the word, and let Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12821	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two draft laws are very important to us. That the Notary Service is very important for the legal order of the country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia also says that it was used in these areas back in the 12th century. There is a notary service in Dubrovnik already in the 12th century, and the Serbian Notary Office was formed in the 13th century in Dubrovnik, which published and wrote documents with Cyrillic letters in Serbian, or ancient Slovenian. I will mention only one charter of the 1254th year, written in Cyrillic letters, with which Dubrovnik rule, the prince of Dubrovnik and the entire commune swear peace and friendship with Serbian King Stefan Urosh. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 15th century Kotor mentions the Serbian office, which issued a charter with a Cyrillic letter. This is proof that the notary service is more than 80 years old, as predecessors were, and Serbian notaries in Raska in Serbian statutes date back to the 14th century as a public notary. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, it's good that I don't say it's great that the institute of a public notary or notary, which was supposed to be alive during the previous period of the former regime, and it wasn't. It's great that over 90 lawyers passed a public record exam, although it was necessary during the former regime, and it wasn't. It's good, Mr. Minister, that a public record chamber was formed, although it was necessary during the former regime, and it wasn't. It is great that the introduction of notaries ensures legal certainty in the transport of immovableity for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is what is most important. It will also be welcomed by the citizens of Serbia. The process of introducing public notaries or notaries to the Serbian judiciary has been launched with the aim of dissipating the work of courts who will be able to focus on the trial after the introduction of this profession, as is already under way. The notary aims to establish legal certainty for citizens, especially in the transport of real estate, to reduce the duration of proceedings that are now in the jurisdiction of the court and to facilitate the country's tax collection, as it seems. Otherwise, the Republic of Serbia is late for Europe and for the introduction of notaries, but also for the environment, because all surrounding countries have for many years a notary system that works impeccably, and the previous regime has not really introduced it, which serves them honourably. The process of setting up the Notary Service was slowed down in 2012, when only 23 candidates passed the first public record exam of 303 candidates. The situation was somewhat improved within the next two deadlines, when it passed another 69 notes, totaling 92, which approached the figures of 100 needed to form a chamber that was, meanwhile, formed thanks to you, Mr. Minister. As a whole, the notaries will increase the efficiency of the judiciary, and the legal certainty of the parties will rise to a higher level. They will guarantee with their property the content of the document, and when the legal act is concluded, the notary represents all parties, and not as lawyers until now, and will be an impartial trustee, it will make sure that all sides are satisfied. Dear ladies and gentlemen, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the notaries mean that the deadlines for resolving many issues now being resolved exclusively in courts, such as desert debates, but also greater legal certainty when it comes to selling real estate, etc. The notary also brings great benefits to citizens by making their own contracts such as power of attorney, rent and sale contracts, with the obligation to warn any party in the event that there is a risk of damage. The notaries will also have responsibility for the content of the contract, not only for the formal side of the contract. The establishment of a notary system is the process of reforming the judicial system, which is one of the main pillars of implementing reform of Serbian society, which contributes to the modernisation of Serbia, which is being advocated by the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by our President Aleksandar Vukic, assisted by the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic, which was also defined by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a strike by a lawyer on a flat-rate tax basis and an abominable takeaway of a job to be given to the notaries is not the real reason. That's my personal opinion. The real reason is for certain tycoons and individual politicians, including former government presidents, to block the judiciary, because someone's goal is not to condemn certain tycoons and destabilise the entire state. Who runs Serbia's Bar Association? The man arrested in 1999 for taking bribes, and today he is one of the defenders in the Miskovic process, etc. I'm likely to have a lawyer strike financed by some of the people who bond...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12822	Ambassador, please about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12823	Of course, I'm talking about a strike lawyer who's a direct cause, about the Notary Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12824	Please don't, if we can talk about matter without talking about lawyers. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12825	Let me finally say, a mess in the state won't go away. Reforms and the introduction of order in the country cannot be prevented, because that is why the government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia have decided. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this is your 40th arrival in the last two years in this House, more than half of the former government. You're a great minister. Not only do I think so, but not only do most Serbian Progressive Party MPs think so, the opposition MPs sitting here, and they cannot say that because of party discipline. That's what most Serbian citizens think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12826	I thank you, MP. The word has Vladimir Pavicevic, let Dragan Nikolic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected gentlemen of the Justice Ministry, Mr Selakovic, I am one of the opposition MPs who believes Minister Selakovic did not do well and that our debate today, I think, is also a sign that Mr Selakovic did not work well. We MPs of the New Party will vote against the proposed amendments on additions and amendments to the Law on Public Records and this Law on Transport of Immobility. Dear Mr Selakovic, I will try very clearly, precise and verifiable to say, to announce to you this two groups of arguments that make me think you should not accept these changes that you are defending today on behalf of the Government. Here we go in a row. The first argument – at the end of August and here we all witnessed it, we discussed here in this Assembly on amendments to the Law on Transport of immovableity. Then it was clear that it contained this bill, you said it, I mentioned it, we all said it, that it contained this bill in direct connection with the Law on Public Records, Mr Selakovic. Then we told you, if you remember, we discussed here two days, August 29th, and August 31st, that the early adoption of that law, that there were serious doubts about the violation of some public records law procedures, for example, the formation of a chamber, and the assumption of forming a chamber of notebooks was that there were hundreds, there were 94. This all meant one violation of the rule of law and your involvement with Mr Selakovic in the assembly debate today is proof by my court that we opposition MPs were then, at the end of August, right. Here's two things that make me see that we were right. One thing, today it takes me to understand, here you tell me if I understood it correctly, today it needs to change what we adopted two months ago. Gentlemen, therefore, we were right to claim in August that the adoption of that bill was premature. Well, I don't think it's a natural situation for a two-month change to some law that's passed in this congregation. The second thing, the reason for this almost two months now, is that your actions as well as your actions as Mr. Selakovic for the adoption of these laws. Then I conclude the following, be careful, we say – responsibilities ethics must be one of the principles in politics in our country. That means, Mr. Selakovic, if it's been a while that you've had some results and some action. If it is seen in that time that you have sinned, then we must in some way evaluate your actions, and if you have sinned, it means that there must be some consequences. So the ethics of responsibility as part of modern politics in this case means that and that's the first argument. The second argument, gentlemen, I have now been informed of this debate, in courts in Belgrade, for example, I hear from the judges, often there is not enough paper. Sometimes there's no toner in some courts. Computers are bad, they say – it's leprosy, it's now said. It is said that there are no basic working conditions, and notaries, public notebooks, respected gentlemen, have inappropriately high incomes. For example, Mr. Zivkovic mentioned this earlier, the data from the Tax Administration of Belgrade is that income, for example, is one notary of these 94, that the man's income in September was 180,000 euros. Gentlemen, here 1,000, 1,500, 2,000 or several thousand dinars are reducing pensions, and the notary, for example, according to the tax administration of Belgrade, one, I say not all, is the first one on the list, with 180,000 euros. Mr. Selakovic says here that one push on the tax administration button we have a review of all the receipts of the notaries. Then I wonder, Mr. Minister, what is waiting for that button to be pressed? To see how much income that is. Here, now I'm here to announce the income of one. Citizens, therefore, suspect that precisely this huge money, Mr Selakovic, is the reason he insists on this law and its contents. I think you're wrong about both justice and justice and the rule of law, and that's why we're not voting for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12828	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12829	I would like to ask the Honorable predecessor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as he says, as he says, to read the name of that public notary and say where he has his seat. So, you do it immediately, and then according to the ethics of responsibility that should exist on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia to be ready and to bear the proper responsibility for it. Of course, given that the MP has, he should enjoy immunity and that any spoken word in this National Assembly should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12830	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12831	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected National Assembly Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mr Selakovic and guests from the ministry, there is a man I have determined according to the Belgrade Tax Administration that in September his income by notary jobs was 180,000 euros. Mr. Selakovic, you said here today that one push on the tax administration button has recorded all the incomes of each notary individually. I ask you, Mr Selakovic, to press this button, Mr. Minister, to check what revenue these notes are and to publish to Mr. Selakovic all notes according to the tax administration's data, so let's see if the truth, gentlemen, is not only that one of these 94 has an income in September of 180,000 euros, but that it is true that the income range is dominant among the notaries in September ranging from 50,000 to 180,000 euros, gentlemen. I also ask Mr Selakovic to answer another question here and to act as one responsible minister as expected by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. So this is where I mentioned someone measuring your work in the last two months. Do you accept that you were wrong, Mr Selakovic, that our debate today shows that we were right when we claimed in August that the adoption of this law was premature, that we now have to sit here again, that you are coming back with something that is not agreed, not with lawyers, and that it is possible again, for example to host you here in two months? Mr. Selakovic, these are all questions for you, you are executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12832	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12833	Member of the 107th Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the reputation of the National Assembly is further marred here and violates the Rules of Procedure by telling ministers we elected in this National Assembly that they should press buttons. Ministers are making drafts of the law. For these bill proposals come here to parliament and receive support, seek and receive support from the National Assembly, make sublaws, follow the course of these laws, and not press buttons. For those who press these buttons, so they came from 50 to 180 thousand euros, you see, I would be happy as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. You know why? If one notary made traffic for 180 thousand euros, forty-two percent not full, it seems to me Mr. Minister that according to the 30% that goes directly into the budget plus the part that goes VAT, 42% goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Tell me one lawyer who will invest 70,000 in the Republic of Serbia's budget in one month. Tell me. Do you defend yourself in this way, that these 70,000 disappear somewhere in some other nature funds, to feed the fatty goose, as the citizens of Serbia say, although I want to argue with the lawyer because there are indeed a lot of, most honest, correct people, who, by force of opportunity and wrong privatisations and bad moves in the judiciary of the former regime, have forced the following work that is difficult and responsible and cannot be generalised on the basis of several individuals who had such intent, but tell me one lawyer who paid 70,000 euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget in one month.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12834	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: President's Rules of Procedure. I don't think so. The word has Minister Selakovic, you will get after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12835	I was very clear, and I did not have to be louder than this tone I spoke, and usually in the vocabulary they say – who insists on the strength of his voice there is no basis in the facts. I asked Mr Pavicevic very clearly, so I asked Mr Pavicevic to tell me the name and name of the public register he said he had earned 180,000 euros. I think Mr. Pavicevic, in line with his ethics, will be able to answer the name of the public notebook who earned that kind of money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12836	Vladimir Pavicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, a respected guest from the ministry, respected Selakovic, and I must also say to the respected Mr Babic, so I did not, gentlemen, mention the buttons here first. Minister Selakovic, if I understand that correctly, and I think Mr Selakovic understands the tax administration's data well, so it's not my data, it's the tax administration's data. Minister Selakovic said one push on the button, and Mrs Gojkovic heard this from Mr Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12838	Tell me your name, please don't keep me in suspense. What's the name of the man who made 180,000 euros?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12839	Mr. Selakovic said that one push on the tax administration button we have all the receipts of the notaries. Mr. Babic, he tells me, so as he mentions some buttons, it's not serious. Minister Selakovic mentioned that there was one button, and here I have now concluded that Mr. Babic obviously knows the name of that one notary who, according to the Belgrade Tax Administration data in September, achieved an income of 180 000 euros, and to me seems respected to Mr. Selakovic, here, and in a calm tone to tell you, since you, as far as I understand, expect such a tone in a decently appropriate word, that you, through that one button, have therefore the chance for Mr. Selakovic to present to all citizens of Serbia, Serbian citizens and presidents of the National Assembly Mrs. Gojkovic, to say what the incomes of all the notes are, and whether these revenues are true to our pensioners, Mr. Selakovic, from 50,000 to 180 thousand euros, respected gentlemen, while pensions are reduced, by thousands of dinars, two thousand dinars, which means our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12840	Thank you. Such a traffic of immovableity in Serbia is amazing, that you brought it out. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12841	What do you say and not spoil? All but responsibility, honor, seriousness... (Marco Atlagic, from the place: I congratulations. I'm a congratulatory man. Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. We heard from Mr. Pavicevic a dropped smoke bomb here, to cloud reality, to get us all squirm now, how someone has earned 180,000 euros, how he has knowledge, how that -- when I get there, I'm going to do you a lot of things. I mean, it's really unserious for a serious debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not surprising to me, Mr Selakovic, because it is part of the folklore, the predecessors of Mr Pavicevic and his party colleagues, there are not many of them, that they have spoken in this way both about Mr Vukic and all sorts of other things, but that weapon is not even polished, but it is definitely empty. Definitely, there is no one to hold, because it holds only one who has cheeks and honors, congratulations, so when he says something then stands behind it and confirms it, and here I once again invite Mr. Pavicevic on behalf of all of us who are in this room, but also in front of whom we are watching this debate, say once or apologize to Mr. Selakovic and the Serbian public because he has to suffer such tirads and such untruths or join your fellow leader, both of you, because you are using the same ways that are inappropriate for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12842	Minister Selakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12843	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of sixty MPs, an ethical responsibility has been called upon by one who is not telling the truth. Therefore, in accordance with the principle of ethical responsibility, I really once again appeal to hear the name of the man who earned 180,000 euros in a month? So, which is the name of a man, because here citizens are given information that I am responsible for, and in accordance with the principle of ethical responsibility that we have set up and established, that such persons are not among public notebooks in Serbia. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Perhaps in Montenegro. ) So maybe there are in Montenegro. Sure. Perhaps Mr. Pavicevic can say that, but here is something he is trying to slowly divorce. The first is categorically said – one person earned 180,000 euros, I have data on it from the tax administration. Then it is said -- the person I have found to have earned 180,000 euros, and then it goes the third time -- between 50 and 180,000 euros. What's next? I beg you, say, in front of the public of Serbia, which of the public notebooks earned 180,000 euros in a month? If that's not true, and I claim that's not true, that's not true, and I'm not afraid to tell the truth and respect the absolute principle of ethical responsibility, then I also call on that principle of ethical responsibility to respect the one who called for something like this. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12844	You have no right to a replica. He can't rephrase when you don't want to say his name. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Let Ivan Jovanovic prepare himself. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. The replica is gone. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic, on this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12845	Madam President, I wouldn't react, really, but I think it's broken Article 107, because at one point in time this otherwise interesting debate was used as an argument, in the absence of others, which points to someone's origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12846	That's not true. I'd react. Don't, Ambassador, you weren't in the O.R. You don't know what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12847	That's not true. It's given a last name in an inappropriate manner and by a minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12848	The apostle insisted that his last name be properly pronounced.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12849	But Montenegro was also mentioned. I don't think that should be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12850	Montenegro is not mentioned negatively. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12851	I'm not saying if Montenegro is negatively mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12852	Can't even be mentioned positively?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12853	I don't have any attitude whatsoever. I just have an attitude towards stressing, and it's aggressively, by the leaders of the majority and the minister, something like this, when you can't talk normally, then you make such an argument. It bothered me, and I'm asking you not to do it. So I'm not going into the rest of the debate at all, I'm just saying that something like that is wrong. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12854	Thank you. No injured Rules of Procedure, no one mentioned the origins of any MPs or any neighbouring country at all, and I ask that you react equally when the name of Minister Selakovic is mispronounced. I hope it bothers you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. I won't give a word to anyone until you say yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12855	Madam President, honourable ministers, Mr Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr Pavicevic, you have remained in debt to Mr Selakovic, you have remained in debt to Mr Babić, and now you owe me the answer – who is this magic notary from Belgrade, which only in September has made 180,000 euros in cassation? If that's the case, I'm going to take the notary exam right now and I'm going from law school to notaries, just tell me what his address is. It might be a good idea to get involved, so we'll split 90,000 euros a month. It's an income that doesn't even come true in America, and I don't think even in New York it's possible to make so much real estate traffic and verify so many documents, which is the basic job of notaries, and make so much money. The other day I spoke to a member of the board of directors of our chamber, a lawyer, and he told me that some lawyer in Capco had earned 80,000, and then they told me that someone had earned 50,000 euros. When I sent him a message earlier to give me names, to send me amounts, he didn't answer. He stopped answering, because all he had to do was blur the whole situation, go too far, so we couldn't go back. I just want to start with what's the beginning and what's been going on today that we're discussing these amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration and the Law on Transport of Immobility. This spring, we lawyers were strikers, or we stopped the work. It may be a mocking expression, but that's how we stopped work because our taxes were accounted for in the middle of the fiscal year, with a new solution, went with an increase of 100, 200 and 300%. At that time, I asked the Minister of Finance and the current Minister of Justice, Mr Selakovic, to continue to work at the meeting with the lawyers as soon as possible, because one of the pillars of society in that division of power, which is the judiciary, must work. And so it started, and there were conversations, and there were some shifts, and there was some sort of deal, so that we would all of a sudden get requests, and I would say to nothing, and again there was a tax, and suddenly there was a Law on Notaries or public notebooks, and as a third request to resign or shift the minister of justice. That's what we lawyers are looking for. I, as a lawyer, will of course vote in my chamber, in my community, for these demands because the first one is most important to me. If I don't vote for the first one, then neither the second one nor the third one will be adopted and we won't get into solving the issue that is burning and painful for me, as well as for all the other lawyers in Serbia. Where did that request for resignation come from now or the replacement of the Minister of Justice come from? What does our esnaf have to do with the minister of justice? What is it that the Minister of Justice did that doesn't satisfy us and we're looking for his resignation? Notary law. The law was passed in 2011 on 5 May, at the same time as the Law on Lawyerry. And that's when we lawyers strike or suspend work, not for tax purposes, but for trying to get us into the fiscal registers. And today I'm against it, and I will always be, but that's when we strike for it. We didn't strike for the Notary Act. Because that's when we all said we were for Europe. And now it is those who point out that they want European values, that they want us to go to Europe, against the notary system. I will remind you that we are the last country in this part of Europe, therefore, across Europe there are notaries or public notebooks, which have introduced a public notary into the legal system. We put it off on two or three occasions, for various reasons – because many have not passed this notary exam which, I will remind, is not easy, which is complicated and it is necessary to achieve certain conditions, to complete many schools, to have experience, a passed judicial exam to be able, after which, when you prove yourself, to become a notary. Now someone keeps trying to confront our lawyers here with notaries, our lawyers with the minister of justice all with one goal – to keep the porridge as dense as possible, to destabilize the more things here, that two months, that is, today is the 55th day my office does not work and all because notaries have the exclusive right to verify real estate contracts. We asked this request, which was a month and a half ago, for this exclusive right to be abolished, that is to be given to all, to lawyers and citizens who are parties to the procedure to make their own purchase contract. Now that the minister with that proposal has gone to the government, the government accepts and votes this proposal, that it is not good for us MPs again. Now that you've met that request that we've made, it's a little bit again. It may also be required to amend the Public Procurement Act. You know, when you give one finger, then he asks for a hand, he'll ask for more. In my office's business, as well as in the business of the offices of many lawyers in Serbia, the construction of an immovable transport contract may be ten percent. In my office, I think it's 0.01%. I don't remember when I put together a buy contract because people do it themselves, they take it from the neighbor what it looks like, who's the buyer, who's the seller, they take it to court, and then there's the problem. In order to create one legal certainty, it was necessary to introduce a notary system. When we talked about amending the Law on Transport of immovableity, I absolutely explained then that notaries have both material and professional responsibility and the obligation to make what they put together true, based on the law and, what you've been pointing out all day, Mr. Minister, that such a public record has an executive title. Because of Serbia's public and because my colleague Martinovic tried to explain it, I want to say that when you buy a house, when you buy an apartment or any other immovable property, that public notebook records it through its record and there's no need to press charges, you got an executive title at that point, you got an executive ruling. Translated in Serbian, whoever challenges your right, you have the opportunity to get him out of that apartment or out of that house. Of course, it goes through a court executive or goes through a private contractor, but it shows how powerful it is that it draws up a notary. With this proposal that you've made, you're giving us opportunities, you're giving us lawyers, you're lowering the price of making that deal 40%, and you're leaving us the opportunity to fit in that 40%, because it's impossible to meet all these tariffs that Mr. Martinovic read today. The construction of a contract in Serbia is 50 or 100 euros, 200 euros is maximum, all colleagues who know the job know it, and here want to imagine they can charge 700 euros, or 70,000, 80,000. It's a complete nonsension, it's impossible in the country of Serbia, nor will it ever happen. So you gave us the opportunity, and you gave the party the opportunity to do it, and you gave your hand to all of us. Now it's up to us whether we accept it or not. Now I'm talking like a lawyer. You have to understand me, Mr. Minister, it's hard to be in my position and talk, because a lot of lawyers are here and MPs, but they're not in the O.R. right now, a lot of people could have called to say they're talking, so they didn't answer, and it seems to me out of fear that they're not saying what they're thinking, so after that, they have some consequences, they call them what they called me that I said when we were talking about notaries that they're lawyers. It was spread across some of the community's attorneys. I entered the Court of Justice of Vranje as a national envoy to the President of the Court, in order to agree on a reconstruction, you know, Ministers, what it is, and about the furniture that is necessary over there, because it can't be done there. I was reported and almost got suspended, because someone saw a MP and lawyer, Dragan Nikolic, entered the basic court. So, do I have freedom of movement? Can I move and enter the institutions of the Republic of Serbia or not? Who made that up now? How and why? Also, the novelty you've introduced, which is that 30 percent of the notary prize goes to the budget, from the clean part, untaxed. The VAT that is 20% is 41.66%. It is the first time anyone has thought of caring for Serbia's budget, it has fallen short of being charged by citizens, not everything goes in the pocket of those 180,000 invented by Mr Pavicevic, but goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's what to insist on. That's what needs to be said and what the citizens of Serbia need to know. Of these money will go for pensions, it will go for public sector salaries, and in this way we will create security and a safe source of income, and we will not work as the previous government did, by taking loans, by spending them, and then taking credit again to spend them again. One more thing. I'm convinced that with these suggestions you've made, you've given your hand to our lawyers. I think cold heads in these two days need to think about a few amendments that have been given and that I think are too high, which may be able to improve, and I'm sure they'll improve this text of the law. You have to think about it well, to accept, because you've shown greatness, you've shown that you're not the Ossion Minister, you've shown that you're not the Minister. By giving us this proposal, you show that you understand the situation of life, you realize that the devil has taken the joke, that it has become very serious, even Mr. Borko Stefanovic agrees with me, which I particularly appreciate, given that I appreciate it, that 55 days a brand is not working, that it destroys one system, I will not talk about prisoners and the serious crimes that seem. Life can't stand while lawyers strike. It will be very difficult for all those people who are in custody and for those who cannot be convicted because there is no lawyer who can attend. I got a call from a client today to go to the Court of Appeal in Nis. I can't leave, I can't leave. Maybe after this speech, I'll be suspended, so let me. I've been in law enforcement for 25 years. It seems that some people who signed up yesterday are not because they love her, but because they want to have an interest in her, they want to lead the main word, to wave, to defend the worst and those who want to destabilise Serbia, and nothing is accidental, Mr. Minister, and Mr. Sandulovic and the return of passports. I've been doing this job for a long time, and I've been doing it for a very long time, and I know that nothing is an accident. It's all connected in a very nice, gentlemanly way. We now have a problem with Minister Selakovic. You may be here the 30th time, for those two years in your previous term. I'm the one who predicted you'd be the minister next. As you begin, you will be the minister next time. I'm convinced that's what Serbia sees. I know that when people voted in the March SNS elections and voted 50% for Minister Nikola Selakovic, the justice minister, to be justice minister again. Since I'm going to Hilandar now for the weekend, I'm going to pray to God there for all of us to make peace, to be cold and to be normal, to love Serbia and to end this agony and this strike, and I know that you will contribute and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12856	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. He mentioned my last name. He mentioned your last name without any negative context. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: He misread me. He didn't misread you, he's just looking for a man's name. You refuse to say your name, we'll continue tomorrow when you get your name. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12857	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever a reform law comes into force and its application begins, what is the task of all of us politicians, especially you from the Government, Mr Minister, is that the application of this law is in favour of citizens, that citizens feel a concrete benefit from this reform, this reform law and its application. Unfortunately, in the last two years, citizens have not felt much of the benefits of the reforms given to them by the Serbian government. You're not a lonely case. It happens from finance to legalization. There's a fire, the government's clashes with a certain social group, and then there's an amendment and an addition to the law every six months. What I find particularly interesting in this amendment and the addition of the law is Article 5, and the way the government has come to, or you have reached 30% of the reward that goes to the state, or courts. Based on what data did you get to that 30%? Do you have a record of the receipts of public notebooks? I've submitted the amendment where I say this amount should be 50%. I may not be right, but you should have as the authority to reassure us, to end the discussion with the opposition MPs and to ask them to tell us how much your amounts are. You don't have to say one notary, say how much it is for all of Serbia's notaries, by 92 notes, so that we can estimate the average of whether it's appropriate for them to have those incomes in the days when the salaries are reduced, in the days when pensioners' rights are deducted, because Serbian citizens can come up with different data every day, which they don't have to be accurate, about how much the income of the notaries are. Let's let you, as a representative of the government, and say that the government is holding strings in their hands, tell us how much your income is and stop the debate that's going nowhere. You mentioned the example of France and that there's 90% of the state's income, 80%, I apologize. You said there are many public authorities of notaries in France and public notebooks that are not the authority of public notebooks in Serbia. You just didn't mention that there are over 8,000 notes in France, and in Serbia there are 92. I think it is closer to Serbia, closer, to compare with Croatia. In Croatia, it is enough to verify the signature of a public notebook in the traffic of immovableity. You don't need a public-book record. That's seven euros. What is life and standard in Croatia, and what is it like in France and what is it like in Serbia? I think that's where the government should be led, when it proposes solutions like this. You should have, Mr. Minister, when you set out in the application of this law to secure a larger number of public notebooks. Today, in Serbia, citizens and investors are waiting several months to get the service they need to sell or buy a certain property. I'm from Rak County. In Vrnjačka Banja, for example, there is a four-month wait, and you know that it is a tourist resort and that there is a need for investors to do so as soon as possible. That's what we MPs get from citizens every day. It's not a data that comes from any media that's negatively inclined towards the government. By law enforcement, Mr. Minister, citizens only create new problems. There is no new benefit for citizens, there is no better standard, there is no better administration that will make life easier for Serbian citizens. It's the task of all of us in parliament, you in government especially. The government therefore suffers serious criticisms which are, of course, justified, because you are not giving any information that would kill such criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12858	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12859	I'm sorry that Reverend Jovanovic wasn't in the O.R. when I was giving concrete information, but I don't really have a problem repeating them. There is no public-book office in Serbia, among them 93, in which the formation of the contract, in the form of a public-book record, waits for more than 15 days, and so was Vrnjačka Banja, located in the area of the basic court in the Kingdom, and in the Kingdom there is a designated public notebook, which I know is a member of the executive committee of the public-book chamber and which man does his job well. To talk about four months, I have to tell you that, before I heard it the first time, not from you, but from your other distinguished colleagues, for information, I only heard from the president of one bar. When, as Mr. Pavicevic, I asked – who is this man who is waiting for him, it was first said until the New Year, and then by 1 May, I did not get an answer with the name and last name of the man. So, who's the public record waiting for four months to make up the contract? That's what I'd like you to tell me. I know there's only one public notebook in the king's primary court, and it's not waiting for four months. I'm absolutely sure of that. Is there any record of the public records' income? Thank God it does. That's a great thing about this system. With all due respect to my friends' lawyers, neither you nor me nor anyone in this room can tell us how much the lawyer's income was. He can't tell us. Like I said, I have a lot of lawyers, a lot of them I've studied with, a lot of them I hang out with whenever I have time, we don't have that information. We have those lawyers who run books about their business activities, who are in the VAT system, and they can tell you that. In the largest number of lawyers, there are approximately 7,150, 7,160, which are in the system of flat-rate tax and contribution, you cannot get that information. That's what's wrong. You can go to the public notebooks. As far as I know, those who read certain data got that information from the IRS. Contact with a request for access to information of public importance and you get this information. I continue to responsibly argue that one who gives the information that one public notary earned 180,000 euros in one month does not tell the truth. I call for the ethical responsibility of someone who said something like that. Am I someone who's in charge of each of the 93 notebooks, and I'm confident from next year and more in our legal system, keeping track of how much money anyone makes? Absolutely not. This is not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice or the Ministry of Justice. For this, there are competent institutions, which, when you turn around, you can get that information. Why do I think it's a good thing you can get that information? I was already talking about it in the morning part of the session. Because you're in a position to know that a public notebook can't take the money. The public register can receive payment via account or electronic means, so by card, on-site. When you pay him a favor, he gives you a fiscal bill, no problem at all. What are we talking about here? That's what you said. How did it get to 30%? Came up following some parallel solutions. With all respect to our neighbours and countries in the region with which we have, thank God, good relations, our system is not comparable to the Croatian system. The Croatian system differs. Even under the 2011 law, our system is different from the Croatian system. I am proud that he is more advanced than the Croatian system. He's better, and that's what our colleagues from Croatia tell us. I don't have to say that. There are different models, there are different concepts of public notebook jurisdiction, Serbia has defined itself for this concept. Whether he's good, bad, worst or best, it'll certainly show time. It's up to us as a state to give the maximum of our efforts to make this system work as best as possible. I think we have a chance to build it on sound grounds for good and for the benefit of all citizens and of our entire country. It's good to have some debates about things that are essential to the functioning of this system. Once again, I say, you're a serious man, we've been working very well since you were sent, and I'm a minister, to tell me where it's been waiting for four months? I'm responsible for saying that's not the case. I first met a public notebook from the King, met him when he took an oath. It's about a man who left Belgrade to be a public notary in the King. That is why one of the proposed amendments to this bill is that if people from Belgrade want to and if they are ready, they can compete tomorrow for a public-book place, not only in Belgrade, but also in your Vranjska Banja. That they come there because they don't just care about living in Belgrade, and here they get a chance to do something for their business career, but also for the community in which they live, they do a good job. I think that's good. Every place in Serbia, regardless of its size, must have at least one public notary. We will try to make it as soon as possible, and until then significant parts of these transactions will be carried out by competent courts in these places, and the arrival of notaries and citizens will understand how much justice, or the availability of justice, as it is said professionally, has drawn near. So, once again, I'd like to hear the name of the man who's been waiting for four months? As far as I know, and I've been looking for information from the public record cabinet, for all 93 public notebooks, how long it's been waiting for, or when it's the furthest scheduled to put together a real estate contract. Believe me, that deadline was nowhere more than 15 days, including that of the King's primary court. An extremely complex area, given that the King's City, once the largest municipality in Serbia, therefore with the largest territory, is Kraljevo, if I am not mistaken, there are also MPs from the region, so from the Rasko County. In view of the fact that whoever is sitting in the King is also in charge of the mouth, but at this point in time for Vranjska Banja, he speaks enough of how wide and large the area is. It's an area where more than 180,000 people live, when both King and Vranjka Banja are gathered. I responsibly claim that there is no four months to wait for a contract to be made in the form of a public record. You can't wait four weeks. Once again, I'd really like to hear who it is that made 180,000 euros in a month? What is a very important thing, and I conclude, forgive me if I've been answering too long, but I think it's worth saying, when this income is taken and collected, and the amount of value added tax paid from it, in only one month, and the months are 12, so when, from this month, if the National Assembly accepts the government's proposal, the 30% of the untaxed part of the prize is included, you'll see how much the state has earned, and that in the meantime, and we'll come up with that data, how many court- overture workers have quit in courts, it's gone to work with public notebooks, and it's going to relieve the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Data on how many people who didn't have a job were at the Bureau, were graduated lawyers among the higher education staff, one of the most numerous at the National Employment Service Bureau. I invite you, I will come to Vranjska Banja to go together to the King, to go to the public notebook in the King, and ask him how far the contract is scheduled. You're a serious man, too, to go there, let's see, I guarantee that the story of four months, 120 days, that it's a minimum of nine times the period on which the contract is scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12860	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12861	I appreciate the answers, but I don't think they were complete. I'll give you the memo I got from the investors, that's what I got from him. I don't really know who the notary is, and I'm not getting into it, I'm telling you about what kind of problems citizens have. He says he's finished in 15 minutes, and now he's scheduled for a much bigger period, and he's scheduled to just finish that favor. That's what I'm talking about, that it's supposed to be a time that's frontal, like it was in court, not that it's waiting so long, because I just think that every waiting kind of brings citizens into doubt. I'm not from Vranjska Banja, I'm from the King, but it's the same region. I really don't know who the notary is or what I'm talking about, I'm talking about what the citizens' problems are in the field. You're saying we can get it based on the law on the availability of information on the amount of revenue. These are public authorities, as well as in the case of lawyers, with what we now have a situation and you yourself said that a notary or public notary is in charge of an area that covers more than 150,000 citizens. That's the problem. Because a small number of public notebooks should somehow serve a large number of interested citizens. It's a problem that exists and it's something that has to be solved. Then that situation can't be evened out. I'm saying that as a responsible authority, you should have that information. It should not be a secret, such as no secret or how much income the courts were for those same services. Now we should have some information, at least an indicative amount of notary revenue, and then we should be able to compare and know how much of the reward should go to the state and courts. This is what needs to be done, and it was necessary to finally establish in order not to encounter such situations, that there should be a debate with the MPs of the opposition who claim one and have one information, as well as citizens, and that you claim another, while we do not have the right information. You were supposed to have that information as a representative of the government, and I think that's how we'd get past the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12862	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12863	I'll try to give the full answer now, but I didn't have a full question. If you're saying some investor was returned, I'm responsible for saying it was because he didn't have complete documentation. It's exactly the benefit of a public record system, which is sanctioned by construction without all the necessary documentation. So probably that's exactly what this is about. He didn't have all the necessary permits, he came to a public notebook, and a public notary under the law must not accept the assembly of a public record under these conditions. If you want to sell an object that you don't have a building permit for, then you yourself carry the responsibility of that legal work. Probably just what he did. I don't know what he's done in a specific case, but I'm telling you responsibly, the highest probability is that. Whoever shows up at the public register, who is told – come in four months, it is probably said – and in that four month attempt to provide all the necessary papers, all the legal documentation provided for so that the facility could be on the legal market for real estate traffic. That's what's important. Otherwise, if it wasn't for the public notebook, with such an object where there's no permission to free our public notebook system, we'd have the awakening of illegal construction as much as you want. It is no secret how much revenue is as I said, but unfortunately for me and all the citizens of Serbia and you, the MPs, we can't get the exact amount of revenue based on the court fees, because nowhere in the vault system was the difference between what fees were paid for ordinary overestimated signatures, which only for overestimated signatures on real estate contracts, which were paid for taking certain procedural actions, let's say, a tax going on the suit, a fee going on appeal, for execution, etc. We just don't have it in the vault system, and we can't go out with that data. As a state and a judiciary, we have another problem, and I am confident that we will come out relatively soon with a proposal for a solution before the MPs. Our big problem is that we don't get over 30% for years. In Serbia, 70% of court fees are not charged annually. That's what's the big problem. We have no idea. If we had a full collection of court fees, our judicial budget and Serbia's budget, the start of the work of public notebooks wouldn't have felt it, but unfortunately we don't. Neighbouring Macedonia has one good solution, it was brought two years ago. According to that solution, they raised the cab to more than 92.93%. Of course we won't go to any shortcuts. We're going to study the way they did it, what were the necessary steps and measures to make it happen. Check this out again, if the investor came in with all the papers, there's no way he brought him back in four months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12864	I thank Minister Selakovic. The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12865	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the new Transport of Immobility Act, which entered into force on 1 September 2014, envisioned that immovable transport contracts should be concluded exclusively in the form of a public record for which only public notebooks are competent. Based on an analysis of the application of this law so far, it is concluded that it is necessary to make changes to the Law on Transport of immovableity in the sense that it is possible to make up, in addition to the public record of the immovable transport contracts, in writing, the need for such contracts to pass the process of soloisation of the public notary, thus obtaining the property of public documents. The proposed changes will not undermine the level of legal certainty in the area of immovable transport. In this respect, it is necessary to amend and supplement the Law on Public Registration in order to agree on this law with the proposed amendments to the Law on Transport of Immobility. Unsatisfactory by certain legal provisions, lawyers have resigned until they meet their requirements. The instructions for handling lawyers during a warning protest with the suspension of work brought by the Serbian Bar Association were directly violated by some of the constitutional principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 60 which guarantees the right to work, Article 46 - freedom of opinion and expression, Article 39, has been violated. - freedom of movement, Article 31. – duration of detention which is reduced to the shortest time. Lawyers under this instruction must be threatened and forced to suspend work. Some lawyers in Nis are because of their stated opinion, i.e. The verbal delinquent received a temporary ban on law enforcement and were processed in a disciplinary procedure. The verbal delicence here is considered to be an opinion of lawyers who have said that dialogue between the bar and the justice ministry is needed in order to find a compromise solution and so that the state is not blocked and the citizens are damaged. Today, the largest number of lawyers, at least in Nis, are on sick leave to work and to have an excuse in front of the courts. It is mentioned here that the government has not reached a solution to suspending the exercise of the attorney's orders. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a regulatory body, which oversees public authorities, made a solution that came out in the "Official Messenger" on 25 September 2014. So, according to the position of the Low Chamber, the weight of the violation of the attorney's duties is spoken of, and it is said of the independence and independence of the lawyer. Is that how chambers help young lawyers? The entry into the chamber of new lawyers is four thousand euros. The membership fee has been increased monthly to 1,300 dinars, and now under duress lawyers have not been working for 55 days. Even to lawyers who have come up with a solution to the temporary ban on law enforcement, those solutions have not been delivered in order to have the opportunity to appeal to them. Is that how we fight for the respect of the legal system, as well as the Constitution of a guaranteed defense right? It's that independence and independence. In the case of a lawyer from Nis, it is only required that a solution be reached by dialogue and that no one dares by any decision to prohibit the right to work. Whoever wants to continue to strike can voluntarily, and whoever wants to do the Constitution legally guarantees it to him. There must certainly be a solution through dialogue and compromise between lawyers through their legal chambers in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice, and we see the solution today in the Serbian Parliament. I call on all MPs to vote for these amendments to the law, and I will certainly as an SNS MP do so in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12866	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12867	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens, the adoption of the Law on Public Registration, as well as the Law on Transport of Immobility, more precisely by harmonising our regulations with EU regulations, has confirmed a clear commitment to introduce and introduce order in all areas of our society. Today, we have before us proposals for amendments and additions to these two laws. They got here fast, but there's an excuse for that. I'm not going to talk about the details of these changes. It's already said enough. But for the sake of the citizens, I must point out that the proposed amendments to the certificate, i.e. clearly state how much this government, resolute ministers, in this case Minister of Justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic, are acting responsibly. Gentlemen, I can't help but think that behind everything that's been going on, and about these two laws, there's something hidden, something that's certainly not of general interest. When it's not general, it's personal. In this case, we have a personal over the public interest. The facts suggest that the vast majority of the now appointed notaries have come from the law, or that they have so far been engaged in law enforcement. Then what's the problem? Who feels disquieted, lawyers who have not so far had a small number of representations before the courts, because their weighty work was a wave of what is a public record job? What did he have now? At one stop, there was an insufficient number of notaries, public notebooks, and on the other hand we have unsatisfactory or seemingly dissatisfaction with lawyers. Here's a chance to balance it out. Lawyers whose work is mostly public record work, and who meet the requirements laid down by law, pass a professional exam and work as notaries and all who are satisfied. However, if not to this day, one more question has certainly been opened today, or another dilemma – is the problem also in the fact that the once avoided obligation to introduce fiscal cash registers, in a way that introduces order and control in the business of lawyers and thus abolishes the flat tax again over this esnaf? I guess that's a big problem. It's a miracle we don't have that problem with the notaries. Notaries have accepted and applied the way in which they pay their services and there is nothing disputed. What is not contentious now becomes a sensation, and what we heard today in the congregation can indeed be classified as sensational news. The news that one notary earns 170,000 euros I think there will be a big rush, Minister, in the next round of notary elections, if nothing else, if not the profession, this amount that many opposition MPs have mentioned today will be more motive for people to want to be notaries. Didn't the opposition's entire presentation mention it all the time today even, as I said earlier, to the sensational news of how much the notaries earn? I see a lot of people will go to the notaries, because if so, why wouldn't they? Dear citizens, first of all, those who are seriously suffering, or are you deprived of many human rights, such as the right to freedom, defense and other rights, what or are you being held hostage? It may be that you are hostages, I may say, Serbia's Bars, more precisely those who are at its head, people who have been defending the interest of their members, lawyers for 55 days, and I have heard it very uglyly from a lawyer friend, stalking them in front of the courts, reminding them of what they have committed to entering the bar and what the conventions are if they do not abide by it. However, because of the frequent mention of how much the notaries make, it's clear. The money is some of the strongest driving means, and from there we have this under the allegations of suspending the work of lawyers under the rule of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. Dear Ministers, the support of this Parliament, which is also the support of the citizens, because they have elected and delegated us to sit here today, let it be your motive to continue with the reforms in the judiciary, and the resistance will certainly be, do not give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12868	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12869	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you, but more than once during my address that we still haven't heard the name of the notaries from Belgrade who made the 180,000-euro traffic, but we haven't heard an apology about the lies told at the National Assembly's pay phone. I believe that this redness in my face speaks in favor of my words, because when a man says something that is not founded in the truth, then he has some special gesture and especially redness in his face. I listened very carefully to today's debate. I expected longer and deeper and more serious. What was tried to impute you, Mr. Selakovic, is a failure to talk and compromise. You are one of the people who, because of the work you do, sent by the minister of justice, is someone who is the most frequent guest in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In both the past and this term, the most proposed law came from your ministry. At this point, I do not have the exact number of amendments that have been submitted to these laws, but it is a large number of amendments, precisely because you are ready to talk and compromise, that large number of amendments by all parliamentary groups to those draft laws that you have sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been adopted. They're free of beautiful theatre and big words here, when the facts are completely on the other side, and that's that you are also when the bill that you've sent to the National Assembly is about and when other topics are about to be discussed, but also at compromise. I find it inconsistencies, inconsistencies when the former regime at one point sends a message that you are not ready to talk, and on the other hand the same members of that former regime, of course, in violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, say – and why are you talking so long? Stop, agree once, do you want to communicate with the minister, do you want to talk, do you want a deal or do you want a minister who won't come or will come and remain silent in the National Assembly? So that's my humble response to that kind of criticism, unfounded in truth and reality. It is also unclear whether members and MPs of the former regime were more concerned about the management of the legal chambers or Mr. Miskovic, arguing that we were unserious, arguing that these links and that these relations were there. Is that how they defend themselves, if they have something to defend the bar of attorneys, or is it the defense of Mr Miroslav Miskovic, or is it an attempt to restore the atmosphere when the names of the defendants in Serbia's judicial system, now indictees, were once pronounced with great respect, a whisper, with almost condescending communication of selecting words, but also questions about what laws are relevant for these and such people? I said a few days ago, and I will repeat today -- I strongly believe that for Mr. Miskovic, who is a good trader, it is certainly much more favourable and more beautiful to stand behind the blockade of Serbia's judicial system, than to pay for the expensive lawyers who have defended him so far in the process that the state of Serbia has towards Miroslav Miskovic. I am also grateful to you for the answers you gave, Mr Selakovic, when it is in some way and the place where I was born and I live, which is Vranjčka Banja, and the notary from the Kings, which I personally do not know, and I have no information about how it can be during the period when the Notary System has come into life, which is two months, that it is already waiting for four months. I didn't study that math. This mathematics has no basis in the logic of applying the notary system in two months, but someone is waiting for four months. In four months, two, okay, but vice versa, it can't really be explained to me, but it has a certain note that this four-month wait has to do with one investor on Knez Milos Street, where they can't finish those horns and those pillars on one object that's not legal and can't be legalized, so probably according to the habit of getting it all certified in 15 minutes and no one else has any more responsibility, and only one who buys such an object will have problems tomorrow and scratch on the head. Of course, it was much easier for the investor to do so in 15 minutes than it will now come to a public notary who will determine the facts and show that from that facility where you have been for years, and when you visit the basic court in the Royal Court and the judicial unit in Vrnjačka Banja I will show you how right you are and how ugly you are at the entrance to Vrnjačka Banja in the street of Knez Miloša. Of course you can't verify it. Of course he can't do something that's illegal to get into legal and normal flows. I do not want, by respecting the principle of private property, to talk about the owners, i.e. those investors and their functions in the former leadership of Vrnjaka Banja or in the current leadership of individual political parties. In this debate today, I listened very carefully and, of course, except for your presentation and other than the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Mr Martinovic and my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, everything else was an attempt to act as lawyers. I don't think lawyers need lawyers, not because they're lawyers, but because there's no case against lawyers, and a lot of my friends, party colleagues, and private friends and acquaintances are lawyers. I don't think their rights are compromised in this way and these bill proposals. They will have space, they will have the opportunity to fight on that market, to make up contracts and to make up 40%, because 60% of the compensation for making up a public record is for solemnisation, although it is in the countries in the environment, and I am sure that Mr Pavicevic, who has not yet given us the answer that the public notebook that made the 180,000-euro turnover, knows that, for example, in Montenegro, it is 80%, and that only 20% remains for lawyers, or for those people who make up the contract. Mr. Pavicevic's finger points to Mr. Selakovic. Yes, Mr. Selakovic is responsible for why it is 60%, why it is more lawyers than, say, in Montenegro, with whom Serbia has had excellent relations over the past two years, relations between two sovereign states, neighbouring countries, countries that respect and price each other. I will remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I will remind you that Mr Milo Djukanovic was also in this National Assembly, the president of the Montenegrin Parliament, that he was also visiting Serbia, and I do not remember when a Montenegrin official visited Belgrade. Here it is spoken and many have tried to be lawyers, although I don't think lawyers need lawyers, but what about the interests of Serbian citizens? What about the interests of the Serbian state? Why are we here today and why in the Serbian public is just talking about the interests of a small group of citizens, which I have great respect for, because I respect their work? But what about the citizens of Serbia? What about their interests? What about the interest of the Serbian state? Let's start with the citizens of Serbia. I'm worried that there are only 93 notaries in Serbia right now. It seems to me that 250 is a plan and a desire to cover up, to 25,000 inhabitants, a notary. I am pleased, Mr Selakovic, that you have announced changes to the law, quality changes in the law, where that number of inhabitants will be reduced to one notary, not only to 20, but also some plan of 15,000 inhabitants to one notary, and thus, the availability of the notaries themselves, the proximity itself due to the division, I suppose, of the territory, will be much better and significantly better. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are getting is made up of an anecdote. I'll tell you this anecdote, that there was a father and son of a lawyer in one family. A decent family in a small place like Vojina and my Vranja Banja, although the anecdote does not apply to Vranjska Banja, of course. Father and son were lawyers. Father got sick, had to go into surgery, not such a scary, post-operative cycle, mostly, he went back to the office after a few weeks or a few months. The young son, inexperienced, comes out to his father and says, to boast, says – Father, I have solved all things, I have nothing more than unsolved objects. His father answered that question. It is not yours to resolve. It is yours to extend these matters. That's the point. The job of a lawyer is, unfortunately, unorthodox, not to solve but to extend these cases, so many complaints, so many convictions, so many inconsistencies, all of them. About whose expense? About whose expense? The cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How many of them had to sell the field because of the conduct of court disputes, had to sell the crying, had to be in charge of leading litigation that was often trivial, because he was on trial with his brother or sister, or what I really can't understand and don't support. This way when the public record becomes a public executive document. No complaints. There are no options for some manipulations, no process extensions. That was wonderfully explained by Mr. Selakovic on the case about the purchase of an apartment. Do our citizens also have material capacity, whether they have will, whether they have time for too long litigation and litigation that has been conducted in this way. Do we have time for this investor mentioned by an esteemed colleague, a previous speaker who's used to finishing the job in 15 minutes? In court and in an office that's not obliged to verify whether what it says is true. Which is not obliged to verify whether that facility is legal or not. Whether he's loaded with some debt for utility services isn't. If it hasn't already been sold to someone, it has or hasn't. Now, because of certain interests, we're going to say, certain groups of people -- we don't care about the citizens, let them continue to suffer, let them have litigation, let them sell the property to pay lawyers and to pay for too long litigation. No, this is how the state of Serbia works in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this way and these amendments to the law, there is that common denominator - the interests of both lawyers and citizens, as well as the states of Serbia. Why do I say the states of Serbia? How many times has one of us or someone you know gone and made up a contract with a lawyer saying the price of real estate - well, let's not pay the state that much tax, let's put in a smaller amount. How many times? It's a reality. Unfortunately, my fellow lawyer Mr Nikolic, defending his profession and profession, of course, is trying to disprove it, but he is also aware that it was in Serbia. Who didn't have income that way? The state of Serbia. That is why what Mr Selakovic said, that 30% of the court fee is charged and is in favour of the Serbian state alone. Are we going to play a system like that, put our heads in the sand and let your incomes go to the other side? Are we going to allow the price of real estate or the price written in the contract to continue to be ominous and to be at some minimum or below minimum, so as Mr Selakovic said, the apartment on Vrakar in the contract says it was sold for 500 euros. The court's office is under no obligation to check something like that. The public register is under obligation because it is both materially and criminally responsible for what it soleminates, if it has not written before and made up such a contract. It is an interesting fact, the relationship between real estate and money flow in September and October 2013 and 2014. Real estate sales in 2013 were higher than real estate traffic for those two months 2014. Of course, when real estate traffic is higher, you expect the turnover of money to be higher in 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament - it's not. Real estate sales in September and October 2014 are lower, but money traffic is higher. What does that mean? That when a contract is made with notaries, it is necessary to form at the right prices and to pay at the right prices and at the right value of the contract and what is the obligation of one of the parties, or both parties agreed on a fee to the state of Serbia. So how long are we gonna close our eyes to things like that? And will we continue on the proposal, and here is the proposal of the Serbian Bar Association, which is essential for public records to be abolished in Serbia. That public records in Serbia, and this case I got today, at half past ten, and then those who say there is no politicisation of this case -- yes, there is. Because opposition MP groups got this 15 days ago, I got it today. And I could see that by eradicating Article 82, 83, it seems to me, Mr Selakovic, that what is really the point, what all countries have in the environment, Albania and Montenegro and Bosnia, have for years been abolished and the notaries are reduced to the verifyers. The seals, but everything just so they don't soar. Although I asked my fellow lawyers and esteemed lawyers to tell me where the word came from. You know, few people in Serbia know what solemnization means. Mr. Minister, I was the first one to be encouraged by what first came to mind when it came to solemnization, reminded me of the sun, of the salty, of the sun. We want the truth, we want these contracts that are made true, to be legal, to be correct, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not have to tremble that after the contracts of some others will go to some litigation. That the state of Serbia is charging its income, that both investors and citizens and all those who need public notebook services know at what price they are doing it. Here is a clear record of the public note-book tariff, that 30% of that reward goes directly to the Republic of Serbia's budget, and 20% of VAT of course goes beyond that into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So let's say, for the pre-negotiation for the Republic of Serbia's budget on taxis of 1,900 dinars, now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, with this law on public records in the budget of the Republic of Serbia goes 7,500 dinars. The legacy of 1,900 dinars and the legacy of 7,500 dinars. For a general contract, and for other contracts, and I could talk for a very long time about what is good, not only security but also the benefit of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but what has been so far. So in this way and in these laws you bring much more light into that system. As said by a respected fellow at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Mr. Zoran Stojiljkovic, who often uses light as the best disinfection light. I think that in this way you have introduced light into something that was quite dark, that in this way the state of Serbia is safer, that the safer citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that lawyers really do not need lawyers, but that they will be able to fight for their place under the sun and for their incomes, and that Mr Pavicevic is leaving this hall, but did not tell us what public notebook made the income of 180,000 euros in a month?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12870	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovanovic, you applied to the system, maybe you recognized yourself in Mr. Babic's sentence, that the one who's used to ending it in 15 minutes, but I can't give you a replica based on that. (John Jovanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, you are now at risk of misappropriating your application to the Rules of Procedure, and then I can take away the two minutes that remain for your parliamentary group. (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Article 104) Here you go. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place : Rules of Procedure, Article 104) I was misread. It's been said... ) But how did I violate the Rules of Procedure, what do you think you are misread? (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place : I was misread because a respected colleague mentioned previous exhibitions... ) Mr. Jovanovic, when they speak here 20 - 30 MPs, it is normal for them to talk about a law, to mention the same things, or similar things. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place "I didn't say my predecessor..." You didn't speak before the gentleman mentioned. The MP Jasmina Obradovic spoke before that, another national MP. Please don't. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, National Ambassador Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Land books are not the same as objects, i.e. buildings. All I'm interested in is how will the notary in our land books in the cataster, when it's not in line with the real state, determine the real state? That's the first question. Do you know that two days ago, the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate released only one contract, it was the Lola Institute and the facility there, 760,000 dinars to a certain Serb, who was assistant minister of defence, and now is a notary for the Old Town and the Sava Wreath? It's just one contract, and where are the other, dozens, hundreds of contracts that are carried out every day, well not every day, but here's what I say a week? It's this reality that citizens know what's going on, and here some minor wants to show that it's not true. Here, we don't have access to the IRS, but we have access to this data. exclusivity and monopoly are introduced for a group of people who, in this way, are absolutely self-determining legal affairs from this domain. Absolutely. It's unsustainable, Minister, and you know it's unsustainable. Why don't the notaries do the annexes? Here, I'm asking you? Today in Serbia, you go to the notaries to do an annex to the sales contract on real estate, he says - I won't do it. And why is that? Because 50% is cheaper, they won't do it, they won't do it. Do you know that for two children the statement that they leave the country, that they go on a trip, it costs 19,000 dinars. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: You are not true. How is it not true? For two, it's more expensive than it was in court. My question at the end, Minister, in your knowledge, that's what I asked you the last time, please tell me if you know what notary office that is. Public notebook will be given to transport immovableity for the "Belgrade on Water" project? You can territorially, by some other jurisdiction, tell us who this man is and who he's close to, who's going to do "Belgrade on Water"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12872	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12873	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am absolutely convinced that among those chosen on the same list, the same principles apply, and so is the principle of ethics of responsibility, as it was just before Mr Pavicevic spoke of this. So, I call on my respected predecessor to prove what he first said that a certain Serb, a public notary, took 760,000 dinars for one contract. So here is the entire public of Serbia, here are the MPs of the National Assembly, here are the cameras that monitor the live transmission of the National Assembly session, asking my distinguished predecessor to present evidence in black on the white on which he claims it. As I also claim, it's not true when it's said that public notebooks don't do contract annexes, that they prove it again. If today's public notebook number is 93, they have their names and last names, they don't hide the stamps and signatures, they put them on the documents they make up. Please prove they don't make up annexes. Not flat-rate, not by the way, no - well, as soon as a national MP from a hard-line categorical position where he claimed something had been done, that someone had taken 180,000 euros and left the National Assembly without finally telling us who earned 180,000 euros in a month, not 180,000 euros in turnover, but 180,000 euros in income, as we didn't hear then, because if we didn't hear this either. Let's see which public notebook the name doesn't want, refuses to make an annex contract? Let's hear who? As it is said that the confirmation, or consent of parents, that children can go on a trip, say on a college trip, because you say that consent is given by both parents, that is, in that case, not when they travel abroad with one parent, it costs 720 dinars, and you said if I'm not cheating on more than 19,000 dinars. I'm sorry, if it's 18 or something, 19, I don't know how many you said. You're a serious man, you have to have more serious sources. So, I tell you first, just show us black on the white contract based on which a certain Serb, Cvejic, a public notary, took as you said 760,000 dinars... (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Seven hundred twenty. Seven hundred twenty, all right. Just show it to me. I say it again, and I doubt it's true. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: The Property Directorate. Excellent, in the Property Directorate. Come on, you can come along, we can go to the Property Directorate and see if that's the case. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Are you sure? ) Absolutely certain, but I invite you, come out tomorrow, a paper that reads "Serb Cvejic" – 720 000. You're a serious man, I believe you'll do it, as you'll show who refused to write an annex, let's see and see, just bring the evidence and say – here's proof of what I said, that and that notebook refused to make an annex. We come up with that question that I gave you the answer to, but when the answer doesn't like it, then we act like we haven't heard it. The question is any public notary will be in charge, I quote, of the construction of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Public notebooks don't make up projects, public notebooks make up real estate contracts. As you well know, the project "Belgrade on Water" should be implemented in a wide area that covers, if I am not mistaken, the territory of the Old Town municipality, the territory of the municipality of Novi Belgrade and the territory of the Sava Venac municipality. Here we came, dear colleague Stefanovic, to a very important point. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, adopted by this National Assembly, and on the proposal of the Serbian Government prepared by the Ministry of Justice, before the law began to apply, we, trying to be just and knowing that "Belgrade on Water" will someday be built, abolished the power of the immobilisers only if the notebook on the Savaweave is the only one who can make up real estate on the Savaweave to make up real estate contracts for them. So, when the previous majority of the assembly from 2008 to 2012, adopted the Law on Transport of immovableity in 2011, they, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, made a provision that only the public register was appointed as a municipality for the traffic of immovableity, and we changed that as a competent public notary for the territory of the basic court, and in this case, if we are talking about "Belgrade on Water", for the area of the First Basic Court, if I am not mistaken, we should currently have more than ten designated public notaries, so if we include the Third Basic Court which covers, among other things, and the territory of New Belgrade, then we will come up with a figure that over 20 public notebooks or 19, don't hold me until the end here for the word, let's say 19, competent for the area of these two basic courts. If we had stayed in the old solution adopted in 2011, you are right, there could only be one notebook, possibly two, Old Town, Sava Wreath, because on the Savawedding we have one, but you seem to have forgotten that the law has changed in the meantime and that there is not one monopolies, but that there are over ten investors, or whoever wants to buy an apartment in one of the residence facilities of Beograd on Water, will be able to contact the public notary in the area of the First Basic Court, who they consider to be the best and most correct to do the job. Just once more to sum it up. I expect you, guided by the principle of ethics of responsibility, to come out and show this public record where it says that a certain Serb, Cvejic, has earned money from one job of 720,000 dinars and I urge you to inform us about it and as you have come out nicely and here you have claimed to prove it. That's the first thing. The second thing, prove that the notaries don't want to make up the annexes of the contract. The third thing, admit it and apologize for saying that 18 and a change of thousands of dinars are charged for the consent that parents give to go on a trip without parents. Fourth, remind yourself that I answered this question about "Boograda on Water" in August of the month and that my answer was identical in its essence to this answer that I gave you today. With that, as you can see, I don't have any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-03-0.u12874	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a joint principled search. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
