ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3320	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Sign up one more time, please. You're not in the system. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3321	The Honorable Chairman, the Traffic Safety Act was passed five years ago, but not all of them were passed by following regulations and sublegal acts, although the law was long prepared and praised as a solution that should change the chaotic state, as regards our traffic, technical checks and any other problems that arise in traffic. The new Traffic Safety Act on the Roads has partially fixed the chaotic state, but due to the lack of follow-up regulations, many of the anomalies that need to be corrected are still present. Since the government has been obliged to bring in the highest and lowest price of technical checks, this has not yet been done, we have the appearance of many owners of technical examinations who are unconsciously doing their job, whose sole goal is to carry out as many technical checks as possible, selling as many insurance policies as possible, giving customers as much benefits as possible. Technical examinations are often done in part or are not carried out at all. It's only done with traffic permits and we think that this situation should be interrupted, because it's completely illegal. I will remind you that in neighbouring countries, it is mandatory to photograph the vehicle on technical examinations, which should be regulated by sublegal acts, but this has not yet been done. There are also many objections to the association established by the owners of technical checks that the Agency for the Safety of Traffic issue of certificates specifying the category of vehicle type, not taking into account the provisions of road safety rules, but the provisions of an international agreement relating to uniform technical regulations for vehicles at points. As a result, we have that many owners cannot carry out a technical examination of the vehicle because, for example, the vehicle brands “audi A5” as a freight vehicle. In this regard, we think that the Road Safety Act should also be brought into line with international regulations, as it is obvious that the current Road Safety Act does not apply in this part. The occurrences of unconscious and irregular work and the collection of technical examination services also have direct consequences on the Republic of Serbia's budget and have been estimated to lose huge financial resources due to such a situation on an annual basis. I will remind you that the average age of the vehicle in Serbia is more than 15 years old and that indeed because of all anomalies and because there is no photo of the vehicle in the technical examinations, it is necessary to edit the area as soon as possible. The government of the Republic of Serbia has set the highest and lowest price in the field of driver training services and driving exams, but not in the field of technical examinations. Technical examinations currently employ about 4,000 people in Serbia on 1,100 technical reviews, and we think that with this condition, those who are safe and responsible for their work are being punished, and those who are unconsciously doing their job are being rewarded. I ask the question of the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, when will the government initiate rules to regulate this area in a more precise and legal manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3322	The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3323	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will in some way refer to my question to the previous speaker. In fact, a recent newspaper published an article entitled "The Poles are filling our national register" that said about 60m euros should be imported into Serbia during this year, assuming that the average price of imported vehicles is 3,000 euros. Since 19 April, a new Regulation on the import of second-hand cars has entered into force, which has brought to the forwarders, importers of second-hand cars problems. Namely, this regulation provides that, before customs and registration, all used vehicles arriving from abroad must first be examined by one of the six authorised institutions, after which they will receive assurance of the investigation they will be given, issued by the Transport Safety Agency. I will remind you, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and the Transport Safety have just initiated an amendment to the Regulation on imports of second-hand vehicles to introduce order into this area and to comply with European standards, when it comes to exhaust gas, or environmental standards, but also the safety of vehicles themselves. It was then observed, when they initiated it, that imports of vehicles older than 14 years of age threatened traffic in our country. The Agency, I must stress this, has proposed to the Ministry of Transport to postpone the application of this Regulation, which entered into force on 19 April, primarily for the purpose of establishing the methodology of working in the control of the vehicle and for training of workers who would have to do so. However, what happened in practice? The regulation began to apply something different to speed up the process, because the freighters were complaining, so they were allowed to drive first oatmeal, i.e. to pay VAT, and then a review is being carried out, which is why cases occur that the vehicle paid for by VAT cannot pass a check-up with authorised institutions, or control of the Agency for Traffic Safety, because, as this article says, it is actually recommended that the citizens, who buy such vehicles, be on guard. I ask the question of the minister of traffic, who was recently the minister in charge of environmental protection, why don't we stick to the regulations after a month, which was brought in for environmental reasons? The second question - is the harmful impact of imports of such a large number of vehicles, or used cars, too much from the EU, which tomorrow will be our waste, and the fact that we and our waste do not know what we are going to do, and EU members are being released in such an elegant way? I'll remind you, last year, about 120,000 of these vehicles were imported from data, and every step we see payloads of used cars, which are not sold, which have motor oil that will be dropped somewhere, when they break down into parts are a danger. I think this question is in place. I'm afraid the environmental damage we're going to have to pay, if not today, then for a while, will be much larger than these 60m euros expected to go into the budget. Also, I'm using time to ask another question, and it's about this, more vans with eight seats and a driver's seat have been imported, which many people in Serbia have bought to run outside the line. However, Article 9. The Law on transport in road transport provides that vanlinic transport of passengers, other than car taxis, may be carried out by a carrier that owns at least one registered bus. It is clear that many people who have bought such vehicles in order to use it to support their family, i.e. for extra-line transport, and to enable existence, i.e. to meet that famous slogan of "opening new jobs", they want to be legalised in this way, and therefore I ask, on their behalf, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure – whether there is a possibility of amending the Regulation on the number of intended seats and enabling certain technical adaptations of these vehicles, i.e. vans imported from EU countries, which have eight plus one seat, so that it can be used for extra-line transport and I stress that to ensure co-existence for these people who are interested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3324	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3325	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, in a daily paper, a big headline on the politically mounted trial and detention of 405 days of former director of the public undertaking "Serb Railway" Milank Sarancic, and I believe that he deserves certain answers, which is why I am reporting today. Mr. Sarancic was convicted of obtaining a locomotive in the first degree. What is important and what we need to know here, I am saying first of all because of the citizens watching this direct transmission, is that Milanko Sarancic has since the beginning of 2005, been the director of the public company "The Railway of Serbia", that he only implemented the decision made by the Management Board of the "Serb Railway" set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that, before the implementation of that decision, 38 professional people, directors of different sectors on the Railways, signed the agreement to implement the decision. Unfortunately, I have to say that in one media orchestrated attack, first of all Mr. Sarancic, his family, and the party at the NS, which Sarancic belonged to, we all suffered enormous damage. What was the occasion? The reason is, I can say this freely after this speaker, first of all, what Milanko Sarančić was doing as Director of Railways, which is that, upon coming to the director's post, he abolished the contract to rent private locomotives through the company "Combined Transport" whose owners were, of course, close to previous management which was set up by the DS since 2000. What is important and what viewers need to know is that Milanko Sarancic, in that period, started to resolve a whole series of affairs that were at the moment in "The Railways of Serbia". I will remind only the viewers of some of them, and this is primarily the acquisition of a magnetic resonance for the Railway Agency's protection of workers overpaid 2m euros, the purchase of beer-making apparatus through an intermediary from Zagreb that has been prepaid over three times, sales and under which conditions 2,700 wagons in old iron, the advance payment of maneuvering locomotives in the Czech Republic, which do not work even the richest countries in the world, but buy them on lease or credit. Unfortunately, the media campaign that led to the arrest and later to the first-degree verdict on the conviction of Mr Milanko Sarancic was led by a former representative of DS Dragan Gilas, who led journalists to take pictures of locomotives and trains over 60 years old and who were at that time ready to go to cutting, or to register. For all of this I have to ask a parliamentary question, because this is once again I have to repeat it was a 405-day detention, and it is one of the longest detentions since the October changes in 2000, and I am therefore asking the question of the Minister of Justice – why did it take in the court council of the Special Court half a year for Sharancic to send a written discharge of the first-degree sentence, which was read to him on the day of his sentence? Why after an appeal to the Court of Appeal this and the ninth month, so the ninth month is today, the Special Court still hasn't sent the appeal to the Court of Appeal? It is said in public that there are more examples of this long waiting in the Special Court, so the question is – what is the reason? Is there no reason for the possible abolition of wrongful judgments which could affect this year's re-election of judicial officials in the Special Prosecutor's Office and in the judiciary? I would also ask the Ministerial for Transport and Infrastructure to provide answers to me and my fellow MPs – how did the Railway run it during the period when Milanko Sarancic ran it, and was it at that time the only time when the revenues of the Railway were greater than the subsidies from the budget? To deliver this to us, to compare to the period before Milanko Sarancic's arrival and from 2010, when the media harangus set out on him, when he was arrested, and let's see and compare to that of Serbian citizens who saw that the man led the railroad, and in the end, what a high price he and his family paid because of a political arrest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3326	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3327	Thank you. Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, my question concerns the Ministry of Health. It refers to the Low Clinical Center and Cardiosurgery at the Low Clinical Center. Namely, at the Niško Clinical Center of the 2010 Business Technical Cooperation Agreement, Cardiosurgery began to operate in the Department of Vascular Surgery where the Ministry of Health equipped a surgical hall with its investments, so that the patients of Cardiohirushke were operated in the Niško Clinical Centre throughout 2010 and 2011. Due to some ambiguities in the contract on how to pay off fellow surgeons coming from Belgrade, these services ceased to be provided at the Niška Clinical Centre in 2011. During this same period, the Ministry of Health joined the construction of a brand-new Cardiosurgery building within the Low Clinical Centre. The building was completed and fully equipped with the engagement of colleagues from the Low Clinical Centre and donations that crossed over 2m and 200,000 euros. The building is ready and can receive the first patients, but there is a problem that dates back a year and has not yet been solved, and this is the absence of personnel on low cardiosurgery. A low clinical centre is gravitating over a million-and-a-half South Serbian insurance companies, and it is extremely important and important that the clinic for cardiosurgery at the Niška Clinical Centre is working because this will result in large savings in the Republic Health Insurance Fund due to non-payment of travel costs to patients, which is not a small item, and on the other hand will avoid harassment, increase the chance of survival and reduce transportation to Belgrade. Last time I asked a question – when will new staff plans at the Ministry of Health be made with the help of the Institute of Public Health "Bhat"? That was two weeks ago, and I haven't got an answer yet. As far as I know in this room, there are 40 doctors who are in the opposition who are in position and all of us are interested in when these new staff plans will come to life and when will new doctors be able to receive in Serbian healthcare at the primary, secondary and tertiary level, because the average age of specialists is talked about in certain branches between 52 and 56 years? If it continues with this policy and not caring about revoking personnel in Serbian health, we will quickly come into a situation that will have no one to treat us. I hope that the President of the Assembly will finally influence the Ministry of Health with his authority to get those answers that we are looking for as MPs. The second question concerns the Republic Health Insurance Fund and Professor Babic as its director, which is – from which position did the Republic Fund manage to save 300m euros at an annual level or 30 billion dinars? Because, as Minister Krstic said, on the day that we removed 2% of our contributions from health insurance, i.e. Social, and transferred to retirement, it's a surplus that the Fund found with its rational business. My question to the Republic Health Insurance Fund – from which appraisal and how did the Fund manage to save 300m euros in the budgetary way of financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3328	The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3329	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions. First, it refers to a request submitted by the DS on 26 May of this year, addressed to the president of the Assembly. It may be somewhat unusual for us to refer the question to the speaker of the congregation during this conversation, but there is obviously another way to get an answer. My question is exactly going in that direction – what happens to the request sent by the DS parliamentary group to the president of the Assembly, i.e. the proposal to comply with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly determines the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer the questions of MPs regarding the current topic? Of course, we felt that these topics must be facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material damage to floods in Serbia's territory. I would remind you, Madam President, that your obligation, in accordance with Article 209, is to, on a proposal from a parliamentary group, which is a condition that has been met, at least once a month, determine the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions on the topic in question. Given that it stands out for that month, and within the three-day period we have not received any information from you that the request has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order to possibly supplement or repair it, I am simply asking the question when will this session be scheduled? All of what we had the opportunity to hear from you and from you and from, it seems to me, Mr. Babic, that there may be a replacement for this session, simply can't be a case. Mr Babic said there was no need for such a session because a session was held on the last Thursday of the month, at which ministers answered parliamentary questions, some of which were also related to the floods. You were talking about waiting for some government report, and then there's going to be a conversation about it. I'm afraid it's not a question of your assessment, it's a matter of your business obligation. We think that what we had a chance to see that Thursday when we talked about it, it's certainly not what the DS was looking for. We deliberately put the smallest number of ministers, only three ministers, and all the other people we thought were supposed to attend that session were the people who were doing this, so we wouldn't have the opportunity to listen to endless monologues of the Prime Minister, in which we had only political assessments, but not the answers to questions. I really don't think it's appropriate for you, as president of the Assembly, to deal with floods in your daily newspaper interviews without talking about it in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3330	Just a question, please, no findings on our political divisions past parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3331	I don't see why we can't speak in this part and political findings...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3332	If it's in the form of a question, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3333	If you consider it appropriate that the President of the Assembly is concerned with the legitimacy of the majority in another assembly and that in this context he is talking about floods, but not in the Assembly where there is a request from the parliamentary group submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is indeed your political assessment. My second question is addressed to the Serbian government and refers to what is probably more important to citizens than anything, which is the Labour Act. My question is, is there some kind of draft of that law, because there's really an impression in the public that the government is avoiding public debate about the law? We know how much trouble there was the last time he was adopted. We hear announcements from the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General that he will be in front of the MPs very soon. According to the practice that exists, we expect that it will be likely to be followed by an emergency procedure and that very little time will be left behind. People are upset, the budget has provided 600m euros for severances and it is known to provide some relief for layoffs. Please answer the question, can this law be found in some kind of public debate before it comes to the Assembly by emergency procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3334	Thank you. I suppose the second question was asked to the government, since there was no draft law in the Assembly. As for the questions referred to me and as regards your proposal, he was in line with Article 209, but did not get the conditions, this is my answer to the question, you may be dissatisfied, that the ministers at that time and the directors of the public enterprises you called, as I recall now, don't take me for granted if I don't quote exactly who you invited, were not in a position to be present here at the session within a few days. I would not like to comment on the question, since the Rules of Procedure were brought in 2009 and 2011, and there are differences in asking questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays or the session of the last Thursday of the month, where there are no limits in giving answers. It is one anomaly that we cannot correct, but that all the bad consequences of applying this Rules of Procedure are suffering from some subsequent change. So, I believe that we can trust the Government that and the draft law on which we have now discussed and their will to discuss and the report that will guide us on the assessment of the damage opens up the possibility of opening a good debate, not to politicise that we would only give speeches, but also to have an act based on which we will speak, which, of course, has no bearing on your right as MP groups, that, in accordance with Article 209, you are looking for an appropriate session. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS, Zvonimir Stevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3335	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. In Kosovo and Metohija, the work of the Kosovo Privatisation Agency is an institutional robbery of Serbian state property, businesses and institutions in recent months. The Kosovo Privatisation Agency has done so since 2008, when it was formed after a unilateral declaration of independence. Otherwise, the sale of state property in Kosovo and Metohija begins in 2000. Despite the fact that the agency's workers and managers are allegedly under investigation, they do not exceed anything, but rather do everything to end illegal, illegal and violent privatisation of businesses in Serbian environments in order to close the privatisation process and thus prevent any negotiations or talks on the issue of illegal sale of state property. This kind of privatisation has been particularly expressed in recent months. Since the beginning of this year, the Agency has been strengthening violent and illegal privatisation, and this is particularly disturbing for Serbs in Brezovica. If it wasn't an accident, it was targeted, it was the next one. There is more than 15,000 Serbs living in Strpc, which successfully resist the survival of their premises, and there is a number of objects that form the basis for their existence. In addition to the recent takeover of the “Lola” factory in Strpc from which 150 workers were expelled on the street, they had previously taken over the veterinary station, as well as the “Young People” store, and four days ago the employees of the agency took over the Junior Hotel, which has more than 80 displaced persons, which was built through pensioners through the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. With tens of thousands of usurped Serbian houses and apartments, lately, Kosovo's privatisation agency has been working to shut down agricultural cooperatives, although it is known that the Serb population has been expelled from cities, compressed into rural areas, so that the cooperatives are the only resources left to provide existence, and of course the survival and survival in their centuries-old hearths. The agency's intentions are clear to put constant pressure on the remaining Serbian people in order to complete ethnic cleansing. Apart from the south of Ibra, businesses and institutions are targeted both by state and private in northern Kosovo and Metohija. This is how a cooperative in Zubino Potok was found on the target, although it is known that it is not a state-owned company but a private company. It is indicative that the privatisation agency represents itself as followers of the UNMIK Trust Agency, although it is not, nor does it have the legal basis of the Umnik. In the past, this agency has illegally and violently privatised more than 70% of the companies that were in KIM around 700. Of such unlawful privatisation in the Kosovo agency's cash register, only 600m euros were combined. Although the results of the privatisation in KIM do not recognise UNMIK either, no one has prevented an illegal alienation of Serbian property in an ongoing reason not to own the mechanism. And when an unsatisfactory party or property owner addresses acts, communication almost does not exist, and all arguments and answers come exclusively in Albanian. In the process of vomiting from Eulex, an enigmatic response is received, that if legalisation is considered to have been carried out illegally unsatisfactory, a special chamber of the Supreme Court of Kosovo can be addressed, although in the chamber of the Supreme Court there is no predicting the return of property but monetary compensation. Compensation doesn't make any sense because property is sold at cheap prices. The example for the Glogovec Feronikl factory was sold for 37m euros, although experts estimate that it is worth more than half a billion dollars, the Pecka brewery was sold for 10m euros, while its legal value is ten times higher, etc. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, property on which the state's right is worth more than $200 billion, and no mineral wealth and land is included, as well as private property owned by Serbs, except for large areas under which the properties are located in Cosmet. More than 1.4m square meters of official buildings, 145,000 square meters of business and 25,000 square meters of residential towns are owned by the Republic of Serbia. It is also located about 580,000 ha of agricultural, forest and construction land. The seriousness of this problem requires that it be discussed on the KIM Committee as well. My question is: what does the Ministry of Business, or Finance, as well as the KIM Office do to protect and prevent and stop illegal and violent and illegal robbery of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3336	Nikola Jolovic, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3337	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with all due respect, I address the Ministry of Education on behalf of 18,000 primary and secondary school students and 1,800 preschool students from Novi Pazar. Novi Pazar is the youngest city in the Republic of Serbia, and school students in this city continue to take three shifts and the number of students in some schools is over 40. Pre-school institutions are not satisfied with their capacities to implement a pre-school education programme. The city of Novi Pazar is trying to solve the problem of lack of school space with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the donations of NGOs and our friendly countries. In Novi Pazar, two new elementary schools have been built that do not work. One was financed by the loan of the European Investment Bank in accordance with financial conditions and the deadline for its completion was nine months. The school was completed a year ago, has a useful work permit, but has not completed the public procurement procedure for its equipment. In July 2013, a competition for public procurement was launched, the procedure was suspended with an explanation that it would be renewed in the first quarter of 2014. The second school was built by the Turkish Development Agency TIKA and is fully equipped. The opening of these schools is a long and difficult process due to bureaucratic procedures of competent services in the school administrations of Kraljevo, Novi Pazar and the competent services of the Ministry of Education. It has been delayed by the adoption of acts on a network of primary schools and preschool institutions to be adopted by the Ministry of Education, and all necessary documentation has been delivered to the Ministry in time and is in accordance with the law. On 22.3.2013, a decision was delivered on a network of primary schools in the territory of the town of Novi Pazar to the school administrations in Kralje and Novi Pazar. The addition of the documentation was submitted to the school administration in Kralje and Novi Pazar in 22.5.2013, and on the basis of a letter from the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, a representative of the school administration from Novi Pazar gave a positive opinion on the network of primary schools in Novi Pazar in 25.4.2013. In a conversation with the representatives of the Ministry of Education in charge of standards and registers in the field of pre-school and primary education and education, we received information that the school administration in Novi Pazar does not matter and that its opinion does not matter and that the opinion should be given by the School Administration of the Kings. The problem of elementary schools in Novi Pazar remains unresolved. The act on a network of primary schools and preschool institutions has not been adopted by the ministry, and the school facilities have been built, have been authorised, and pupils in elementary schools in Novi Pazar continue to go on three shifts. Also, I note that the tender for the "Mesa Selimovic" elementary school is still not called. This way I call on the Ministry of Education to comply with its legal opportunities as soon as possible to start the new school year by the start of the new school year and thus create better conditions for children in Novi Pazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3338	Thank you. Since none of the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups responds for the word we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Bojan Ziric, Dr Dragana Barisic, Srdjan Dragojevic and Vesna Martinovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that I have been invited by the sittings to attend: Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia; Nikola Altiparmak, member of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia; Zlatiborka Andrejić, Secretary of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia; Dr Ana Jovanovic, Director of the Central Register, Depository and Clearing of Charter of Value and Ljiljana Knezevic, Director of Financial and General Sector of the Central Register, Deposits and Clearing of Charter of Values. We continue our work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts from the 6th and 7th agendas of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs (Article 96(4)). Rules of Procedure. ) In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 239(1) and Article 157(2) thereof. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly open a joint single search on: Report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2013, with a proposal for the closure of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 6 June 2014 and the Business Report of the Central Register, Deposits and Clearing of Papers for 2013, with the Financial Report of the Central Register, the Deposit and the clearing of the values for 2013 and the Report of the Independent Auditor for 2013, with a proposal for the closure of the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 6 June 2014. Do the report's representatives want the word: Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia and Dr Ana Jovanovic, director of the Central Deposit and clearing of securities? If you want, sign in. The word is made by Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3339	Dear People’s MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, thank you for inviting us to report to the full assembly of the National Assembly and to discuss the work of the Fiscal Council. We think this is a good practice that is now being established for the first time and as we are the authority of the National Assembly, we hope that this practice will continue. The Fiscal Council report that is before you sums up our activities in 2013. The most important part of these activities is the evaluations, analyses, opinions submitted to the Committee on Finance and through the Committee on Finance to the National Assembly. In communication with the National Assembly, we discussed these reports on the Committee on Finance, presented our analyses, received comments, and thus created one objective basis for making important decisions in the domain of public finances. Following the meetings of the National Assembly, we saw that our analyses, reports, were extensively used by the MPs and that they were often the basis for their arguments and, more importantly, for making decisions in this area. Therefore, we think that exactly the biggest contribution, if there is one and if there is one, to the Fiscal Council to create a basis for an impartial debate in these objective analyses of public finances, appropriate proposals for tax laws and a proposal for measures in this House and to make competent decisions. This report of ours, which is before you, gives an overview of these documents that have been submitted to the National Assembly and since they have already been discussed in the National Assembly, I would not go through it, I would just say what groups of reports and analyses we have made. The first group consists of those who are in a narrow sense within our jurisdiction, which is an evaluation of the budget, an evaluation of budget rebalancing, an assessment of the fiscal strategy, an assessment of tax laws and all other laws that have implications for public finances. In addition, in addition to our defined activities, we have had additional activities, considering that it is necessary to periodically carry out analyses of fiscal movements, i.e. budgets over the year and then on time to indicate whether or not some corrections should be made on the walk. We made such analyses in March and May 2013. The next thing we did, however, was a little earlier, it was an analysis of the mid-term fiscal consolidation plan, and this problem is now very important and current, as well as the Public Finance Reform Programme. So in 2012, we did an extensive programme and an extensive study that is still, at least in this reform part, relevant. We still have that document on us. Interested MPs can get it. We'll be happy to send it. Finally, we have also been doing analysis of the wider sustainability of the pension system, the long-term sustainability of the pension system, making demographic projections and thus establishing the sustainability of this system. Finally something about the fiscal council itself. By systematization, we have 17 employees, plus three members of the Fiscal Council, which is a total of 20 employees. We've got half of it right now, we've got 11 employees. These reports, the production of these reports that I have talked about and presented to you, basically work by three members of the Fiscal Council and one counselor, means, the four of us are in production, and besides us we have four younger associates, these are colleagues who have just graduated from college, of course, with the highest average, but still young to be able to make a much larger contribution. Besides, we've got three people for legal-financial affairs. As far as our budget is concerned, in 2011, when the Fiscal Council was established, it was ambitious, and at that time it was 70 million dinars. We, as the savings started at the time, we and this budget fell considerably and it was constantly shrinking, so now in 2014, 33 million has been budgeted, which means in real terms, that's one third of what was first budgeted when the Fiscal Council was set up. Our budget, which I suppose should be when it comes to the Fiscal Council, is the smallest budget among the independent institutions of the Assembly. The cooperation we have achieved, the Fiscal Council has gone towards the National Assembly, since we are the body of the National Assembly, and towards the Ministry of Finance. The main co-operation was with the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and Control, where we presented our report, what I was talking about. There I would have one proposal to improve that co-operation, what often happens and, of course, justified in the time pressure, in which you work as MPs, is that these reports, budget assessment, budget rebalancing, the law, are actually being considered on the Finance Committee, just before the Assembly meeting, so that it is possible to separate maybe half an hour, a total of two hours of the board, and an hour on those documents. It is clear to us, in the context that you do, that it is necessary, but it is our proposal that, in addition to that, we offer, the Fiscal Council has an internal meeting, which would organise the Finance Committee, and invite all the interested MPs, where we could then separate, 4.5.6 hours and go slowly through our estimates, whatever it is, budgets, budget rebalances, fiscal strategies, tax laws and so on in peace to go through the arguments. It is often a good part of the question and clarification, and then it is just different attitudes, so now I also submit this proposal to the National Assembly. As for co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, in these three years, in different ministries, it went through different stages, but I can say it was basically good. The promotion of co-operation has been especially since September last year and I am talking about a certain matter, and this is about increased transparency by the Ministry of Finance, where all those expenditures, covert expenditures, state guarantees, most of it is now carried out in the light of the day. We welcome it on the one hand, because that is the basis for facing the real situation and on that basis we bring or propose measures to address these problems. On the other hand, we hope that this practice will continue as well. If that doesn't happen, we'll raise our voice about it. There is co-operation, in the report you have, with various international institutions. What we see is that contacts with EU institutions will begin to increase. There is a greater interest in this fiscal part, in the medium-term fiscal consolidation. We have more and more contacts with them, and there is a trend in the EU that just like this, the Fiscal Council, on the one hand, and fiscal rules, on the other hand, are introduced as a general matter in the EU. I'd stop here to leave room for your questions and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3340	Thank you. He's got a word for it. Ana Jovanovic, professor of deposit registers and securities clearings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3341	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to thank the opportunity to present to the National Assembly the basic characteristics of the business of the Central Register, the depository and the clearing of the values in the previous year. Otherwise, the Central Register report was discussed on the Finance Committee at the beginning of this month, so I think this is an opportunity and a new practice to discuss and discuss the business of this important institution for the capital market in Serbia in the House of National Assembly. The Central Securities Register began its business in 2001 as an organisational part of the National Bank of Serbia in the era of old foreign exchange bond emissions. Starting in 2003, the Central Register has been operating as an independent legal entity, legal form being a stock company, and in the ownership sense, the 100% owner of the Central Register is the Republic of Serbia. During the establishment in 2004, the core capital of the Central Register amounted to 3.5 million. To date, three recapitalisations have been made exclusively from the profit achieved, so today the capital of the Central Register is 165,870,000 dinars. Since, by law, the minimum capital of 750 000 euros means that the Central Register has twice the capital of the minimum prescribed by the Capital Market Act. I would also point out that during the period 2004 to 2013, the Central Register earned a total profit of 523,555,593 dinars, of which 245,409,618 dinars were returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The State shall exercise its ownership and management rights in the Central Register through the Assembly of Shareholders and the Management Board. Members of the Assembly of Shareholders are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of Shareholders on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, and the Assembly of Shareholders appoints and resolves members of the Management Board. Also, the Director of the Central Charter Register shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the consent of the Securities Commission. Last year, starting December 1st, a new director of the Central Register of Securities was appointed. The legal status of the Central Register, ownership status, authorities and activity are prescribed by the Capital Market Act, as a system law governing the capital market in Serbia. The supervision of the operation of the Central Register shall be carried out by the Securities Commission as a regulatory body and by the supervisory authority. In the case of staff relations in the Central Register, the Central Register shall apply the provisions of the Labour Relations Act. In administrative matters, the Central Register acts in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Central Register is a user of public funds and in this sense the Central Register applies the Budgetary System Act, the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector since 2012 and also the Law on reducing net income for public sector people. It is a regulation that entered into force on January 1st this year. Therefore, we are subject to restrictions on new employment and profit. It is important to point out that the financing of the central register is not made out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but solely on the basis of revenue generated by the Central Registry by the collection of tariff rates on the tariff to which the Securities Commission gives its consent. The number of employees in the Central Register has been stable since the establishment. So in 2004, that number was 34, and today 35 was employed in the Central Register. More than 71% of employees are employed with higher and high professional training and the Central Registry is in charge of continuing to conduct large investments in professional training, since doing business in the Central Register requires certain specialised expertise. I would point out that the complete software system, which is essentially the heart of the Central Register, is exclusively the result of the work of employees in the Central Register, has not been purchased or obtained from external companies. As far as activity is concerned by the Central Register, it is fully regulated by the Capital Market Act. The central register is a fundamental institution of the capital market, since it guarantees the correctness of the enrolment and inaccessibility of the transactions carried out on the capital market, the registration of the rights of the following persons, the keeping of monetary accounts, the members of the management of ciphers. Also, the Central Register does business in relation to the corporate activities of the issuers. As for business in 2013, I would like to point out that the basic macroeconomic and financial conditions that existed in the Republic of Serbia represented in some way the Central Register's business framework. GDP growth of 2.5% in the previous year, marked economic indifference and direct foreign investment of 700m euros was approximately not enough to give a new capital market impulse, so in this sense the Central Register shares the fate and other institutions that exist on the capital market in the Republic of Serbia. The key feature in the Central Register's business begins from the establishment to the present day is the constant reduction of the number of members of the Central Register. Today's number of members of the Central Register is 62. Apart from the National Bank of Serbia, members of the Central Register are 28 banks and 32 investment companies. I would like to point out that in 2007, the number of members was 112, so that the maltenes in this period were halved by the number of members of the Central Register, which has a major impact on both business and business. The reduction in the number of members of the Central Register has affected the concentration of business and the specialisation of members to perform certain types of business, so that today there are, for example, members who are mainly, if not exclusively dealing with certain types of business on the financial market and the capital market. The report shows very extensively the data tabled and in graphics. Basic business contours of the Central Register are given. I would say that certain items, which were shown on page 40, showed a decrease in the volume of transactions in the previous year, and when it comes to increasing the volume of transactions, I would say that there has been an increase in primary trading transactions for the bonds of the Republic of Serbia, that there has been an increase in secondary trading of bonds of the Republic of Serbia, an increase in the payment of annuity for debt financial instruments and the payment of principals for debt financial instruments as well. As far as the financial part of the report is concerned, it is important to point out that the Central Register has generated revenues of 167,248,608 dinars. These revenues were approximately the 100% achievement of the plan. The most significant part of income, 82.8%, is income from regular business, about 9% are revenues from membership fees and about 8% of income from interest. As far as expenditure is concerned, the Central Registry in the last year achieved expenditures of 132.811.016 dinars. It is important to note that expenditures are lower by 17.27% than planned. What is certainly interesting for the MPs, the share of gross earnings in the total expenditures of the Central Register is 43.44%, while the participation of net earnings is 37.20%. I would point out here that the Central Register has no resolved business space issue, so under commercial conditions, the Central Register pays the rent of a business space, and this is a very important item in our financial report, so on the basis of the lease, the Central Register pays 13.34% of the total expenditure in its business. As for the remuneration of board members, they amount to 3.39% of total expenditure and are paid in accordance with the government's conclusion on the average net earnings in October of the month paid in the Republic of Serbia in the previous year. In line with the situation in the country, the Central Register has taken certain activities in drawing up a financial plan, which is otherwise not the subject of today's debate in the Assembly, to further reduce expenditure on those items that could suffer such a reduction. I believe these are the most significant features and characteristics of the report and the conditions in which the Central Register did business in the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3342	Does the word of Proposer Representative Veroljub Arsic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds want? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is the debate we are now having in order to increase the control role that the National Assembly has in relation to the authorities of the executive authority, and through the control of work or regulatory bodies, or through reports from independent state bodies, such as the Fiscal Council. I think this is the first such session in the Serbian Assembly, where we have these reports discussed by the National Assembly, because it is also the objective of this assembly majority to fully achieve its role as provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and to raise the reputation of the most significant and the highest representative body in the Republic of Serbia. That reputation seems to me to have been deliberately destroyed in order for the consequences of one bad government to be passed on to the MPs, and one who is truly guilty of sitting on another street and another building. There are attempts at such blows now, but I think with these sessions and future legislative activities we'll somehow prevent it. About the work of the Fiscal Council, I've been reporting on the activities they've been carrying out as one organ, and I wouldn't want to compromise because the report reflects how they really are about their work. It is true that they submitted a large number of their reports, observations, especially when the agenda points were the Budget, Amendments and Supplements of the Budget Law, when it came to tax laws. In general, the Fiscal Council itself has often been very critical of the executive authorities and it is their right as an independent body. But in one part, in their reports, observations, which they asked the state not to have better money than to save more money, which is when someone is doing a public job and when you say they need to be saved on public spending, of course they get political points, but the Fiscal Council is not a policy-leading body. In this desire to save more, I have not seen anywhere a complete analysis of how much the state can save without entering the recession. When you cut the budget by 100 billion dinars, you reduce economic activity in the country, you reduce the turnover of goods and services. Some employees lose their jobs because of it, which they do not work in the state sector, but in real life. I wonder if the Fiscal Council with these rigorous austerity measures, as he suggested, has seen the consequences of the economy, the consequences of the revenue side of the budget, the one that is real, the consequences of the state in the end. We are witnessing that one of us is a very close country, Greece, an extremely responsible state. We don't want to get into the story of why and how, I'm just stating this as an example. They reduced their budget deficits under IMF and EU recommendations, public spending, but also reduced their gross income by 25% in the first year. Such, to say, unthinkable consequences can be a sharp and rigorous savings, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I therefore believe that our measures should be applied in two directions – savings and incentives to increase economic activity, but I would also like the Fiscal Council, if possible, to provide us with such information. Let me just say that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic's 2012 Budget Act abolished the subsidized loans to the economy. That, looking at the budget, of the then 650 billion dinars, those six or seven billion, is 1% of the budget, and it's not much to single out for the economy. In the absence of 6.5 billion dinars, the state had a recession and a 3% decline in social product. When the subsidized loans were returned, everything stopped. So both public finances and public spending and the revenue side are deeply linked to the economy. I can't do it without each other. Money is subject to some physical rules, it can't be created, it can only change its aggregate state, whether it's in securities of value, whether it's in cash. When you start saving too much, you bring the state into a recession, the economy to stop and the real sector employees get fired. That's the first consequence. The second is that this is again reflected in a budget that needs to be saved even more, etc. I would like the Fiscal Council to make recommendations for us in some future period that our strategy should look and that we, as MPs, have the right information to influence the work of the Government, not perhaps, but should also affect the work of the Government in making decisions and legislative proposals. Because this is a new practice Fiscal Council reports here, I think it's a new experience for them now. I believe in their work that the following reports will be even better, their activities and all that they do even better, always for the benefit of the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, and reports that have submitted realistically and faithfully reflect their activities in the previous period. That is why the Finance Committee has concluded that it is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a report on the work of the Fiscal Council, as well as the Central Charter Register of Values. And this is the first time they've been in one session. We had a joint session and with representatives of the Securities Committee, their report is not here. In 2013, their financial plan was not adopted at the session of the Finance Committee because we asked for the Financial Plan to be applied to the Law on Employment of Employees in Government Authorities and Limits, which they simply did not accept. They were paying and spending funds based on a financial plan that was not adopted and only the adoption of their report would in some way mean that we have annulled our decision not to adopt the financial plan. They were also obliged to deliver a financial plan for 2014. They were returned, in accordance with Article 238(5), to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to supplement it and to be discussed at one of the next sessions. I touched this part because I wanted to point out that the Central Finance Register applied full legislation in its work and in the financial plan, and that is also one of the reasons why the Committee on Finance proposed to the National Assembly to adopt their report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3344	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3345	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Professor, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, and today we have reports of two independent bodies and the MP club DS also showed its readiness yesterday to give its contribution to further strengthening the capacity of independent institutions, and so it will be today. I think it is also important to say in the report that the Fiscal Council was formed in 2010 with clearly stated objectives, which is to control public finances and establish new fiscal rules. It is very important to stick to these rules, but today we hear some of the tones we heard in the previous government. There were serious dissatisfactions in the previous government when it came out with objective data. We now see a similar approach to the current government and the current coalition when it comes out with harshly realistic data on the state of public finances in the Republic of Serbia. I think that's the way it is and with such a condition that we recognize the real situation, we have the chance to treat it. Therefore, the view is that the views of the Fiscal Council should not be politicised and should not be seen as criticism of the work of the current government, but by recognising the current situation and objective data to seek solutions. One of the most frequently mentioned words in this report and presenting to the MPs was the word – reform. It is obvious that from an analysis of the current financial situation in the Republic of Serbia and the state of the budget, recommendations come from clear recommendations for needed reforms. That's what the Fiscal Council has talked about more than once. We also heard about this in the exposé of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and our question is addressed in this way. Where are those reforms? It is obvious that the approach to reforms goes about in a way – reforms that need to be announced but when there is realisation, the necessary realizations should be put off. The delay is one of the approaches in this regard. I mention some facts that could not be seen in this report, but are very important for all of us, which is that the public debt in the Republic of Serbia at the end of 2011 was 14.47 billion euros, that the participation of public debt in the gross social product at that time was about 45%. It was a border, and it's one of the fiscal rules that every government needs to take care of. I know there have been justified and significant criticisms by the opposition to the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia. In mid-2012, elections were organised, the current current current coalition won these elections, formed the government, and at that moment, as I recall, and you will confirm or deny that information, the participation of public debt in the gross social product, at least after that information, was about 48% in April. That was the reason for the major assaults due to the break-in by 3% of the 45% limit. Since then 15 billion euros in public debt in 2012 in the Republic of Serbia, 48% of participation in the gross social product, I will not list the data for 2013 and the end of 2012, we have come to these estimates and this report, which today in front of the Republic Assembly, which is that the estimates that the 2014 budget deficit will be 8.7%, unfortunately after the flood, from these projects 8.5 to 8.7. What is disturbing is the fact that public debt will reach about 21 billion euros and that public debt participation in the gross social product will be estimated at 70%. Enough warnings to take place in the announced reforms. What did we get at defense of the Prime Minister's exposé as information? That it is clearly agreed with these recommendations by the finance minister, that these recommendations are agreed by both the Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister of State Administration and local self-government, which is responsible for integrated approach and synchronisation of the work of all public systems, including the ministries themselves in the government. The prime minister said -- yes, they are right to such an attitude, respecting the position of the Fiscal Council. I'm not in favour of the moves recommended by the finance minister and the vice president of the government. I think we are coming up with one important thing, which is a matter of integrated approach and synchronised work of the entire Republic of Serbia, which is characterized by the works and decisions of the prime minister of Serbia, and of course enough authority, determination and independence, if you will, of all ministers, ministries and independent bodies to which, once again, we must show full support in our work. They are the conscience of this state, the conscience of these institutions, as they will contribute to the capacity of the Republika Srpska Assembly, as well as the capacity and capabilities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all relevant ministries. When we talk about measures, in addition to the announced measures, which are being abandoned, which are being postponed, one of the measures that will be the reason for one of the questions that I will ask you, which is what the effects of the Republic of Serbia's budget are with the introduction of so-called. A solidarity tax? The Democratic Party was against the introduction of a solidarity tax. I'll say a few arguments about that. First of all, we heard in some parliamentary questions about my colleagues what the state of health is, how much problems with capacities are, with waiting lines because there are no inflows of new doctors, there are no young talented students who ended up in a maestral way of their studies and there is no way to renew the capacities of such institutions, and with this law we are destimulating these most educated doctors, professors, judges and many others who should represent that development engine in the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary for us as a whole to come out of one general apathy and without ideafulness. I don't think it makes sense to tax someone who receives a salary of more than 60,000 dinars with 20%, and that the income tax is for someone who has a million euros to get 15%. That can't be logical. That is why the proposal is to abolish the solidarity tax, because I believe that the effects in the budget are not such as to save the current situation in the Republic of Serbia. It is certainly much more challenging to consolidate public finances and the work of all public systems. The most visible are these at the republican level and I think our view, first of all, is against that side. There are also major problems in funding local self-government. It's a little further from the public's eyes, and so are we from this hall, but the state of the local public systems is also worrying and contributing to the overall indifference of our entire state. I'll use half of this time for the DS parliamentary group with one more conclusion. Not only are the announcements of reforms not enough, but they should be done. The steps shown in the views and the Fiscal Council should be taken, but also announced in the exposé of this government, and it may be indicative of a short poem by a great writer who says, "It is not the time, it is not the time, now it is too late." In order not to be too late, I think it is important to respect this report, to accept it in one responsible way, and not to seek a new justification now, earlier still in previous governments, and it was another previous and it was reconstructed the previous and this current. There is no need to look for reasons for the state of the public finances, neither in the Fiscal Council, nor in the Central Charter Register of Values, nor in any other independent institution. I think we should go from ourselves, from each of us individually, from our responsibilities and look for those solutions not tomorrow, but today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3346	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The floor has a representative of the promoter, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't quite agree with what my previous colleague said. That's what I have a reason for. When someone starts talking about how the state owes, I'd like to say why they spend that money, or at least ask where that money goes? It would be fair, because then someone could answer – going back to some loans, loans with which this government absolutely has absolutely nothing to do with. From 2008 to 2012, the government spent seven-and-a-half billion euros in public spending loans, without incentives for economics, without arrangement of infrastructure, without making new routes. Now someone has to pay back those seven and a half billion. The question is, how and where? When someone's talking about the gross product, you don't wonder where we ran out of 400,000 workers who participate in this gross product, who are full of budgets, who have consumption? When someone attacks the current financial situation in public finances, who doesn't wonder where four and a half billion euros of foreign exchange reserves went missing with a course that jumped from 80 to 120? Let's calculate these exchange rate changes, how much they reduced Serbia's gross product, how much they increased the debt and the population and the economy and the state. Did everything have to be just like that? I think we're showing, and the previous government and this one, it doesn't have to be that way. Disposal of the flood measures. We can be insecure and say, no, we're going to apply those measures that we wanted right now and right now, without knowing what the damage estimates are to eliminate the floods. How much should Serbia single out to reduce the damage, i.e. completely remove it? When the damage is assessed, then we can make a serious plan from which sources and how to correct what has been destroyed, to apply the austerity measures, to reduce our deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget and public debt. I believe that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, responsible people will sit down to assess the damage as soon as possible and to propose measures to remove damages and to make a strategy to reduce public debt and budget deficits. I don't think we can attack the government's actions because of circumstances that have simply been changed in a very short time, in four or five days' time by force. I'd like it when we discuss it we're not asking anyone to admit what he's guilty of. It's hard for some people. We're not in SNS. We're also not going to be the ones who accept someone else's guilt with which they have nothing to do with it. Let each of you carry your cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3348	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz came forward. Mr. Kiric, the replica. I'm not sure you have any rights to replication, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3349	I'm sorry my previous people took this as an attack on the government. My wish was to speak, and I made that clear, about real, concrete, verifiable data, and I think it's important. As realistic and verifiable that public debt has grown from 15 billion to 21 billion, by six billion and before these floods, unfortunately. Floods have nothing to do with these six billion. This is an argument we have been listening to for three years and in the previous election campaign – we have been in charge of repaying expensive loans. It's a simple logic, then we wouldn't have those six billion, but we'd have the same level of debt if those loans were paid back to the cheaper ones. I do not aim to return to this replica in the 1990s, to the collapse of the Berlin Wall or the 2000s or the previous year, the previous government reconstructed, one or more. Obviously, the goal is to get out of this current situation, and we know that it wasn't the ideal government or the previous government formed in 2012. You confirmed it yourself because you reconstructed it very quickly. After a year. Then it wasn't good or reconstructed, so it needed more capacity for this current government. You got that capacity, that support. Take that responsibility into your own hands. You're not looking for the guilty in others. Try to understand that any critical tone from the opposition can be useful to you, that any independent thinking and financial experts and people in other areas can only use this government and bring the right solutions. Decisions must be made and that responsibility should be taken. It is not a responsibility to spend more than 200m euros in the budget for expenditures and salaries employed in the administration of 30,000 people in 2013... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... It's a verifiable piece of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3350	The floor has a representative of the promoter, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3351	I totally agree with some of the parts of the DS exposé, but, you know, if someone could have spent 100 million, for example, for the sake of the dinar, they don't have the euro, and someone might have spent maybe 300 million dinars, let's look at the effects. Let's look at the effects of that 7.5 billion-euro debt. They're gone. They don't exist. Let's look at the effects of the current task. Are the highways finally ending? In just one year, it's done more than four. You can't have an economy if you don't have infrastructure. I mentioned Greece. I wouldn't want to be in their situation at least in some way. In a way, I'd love to. They're over-indebted. That's why I don't want to. If they had arranged their infrastructure, they did. They're ready. They've been trained. They're too long, but they have activity to pay it back. We're over-indebted, and we don't have the economy anymore. We don't have the infrastructure. Let's take a look at those effects. A colleague, right from the DS MPs' club, says the National Bank is spending foreign currency on defending the dinar course. Let's take a look at the effects. That's right, we spent 600 million euros. What are the effects? The exchange rate of the euro is immeasurable, the reference interest rate is as low as possible and the economic activity is reduced by 3.5%. 600m euros have been spent. We're going back to the four and a half. With nine reference interest rates jumped to 14.5 and 4.5 billion euros were spent and the euro rate increased by 40 dinars. That's the effect. Let's measure the effects. All that is done is one start of reforming the entire society, the whole society, the whole system, both economic and state. Something has to be paid, but we want to see the useful effects of that money being spent. I guess that's the goal of all of us here. We've seen how it shouldn't be, we think it should be this way, but at least let there be some honesty in the presentations of colleagues, so that it doesn't be malicious. We're not looking for anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3352	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3353	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Petrovic, you've got an honorable role and I think you're doing it honorably. When, a year and a few days ago, he visited the German parliament of Bundestag, the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, and the current prime minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, presented an assessment that deeply agrees with our way of thinking. In fact, the ministers and prime minister of Germany, in the last three terms, we have Helmat Kol, Gerhard Schroeder and Angela Merkel, who is better, but everyone is more afraid of the MPs, when they are asking them parliamentary questions and when they are discussing important topics than opposition ones. Even the ancient Romans had a good practice at the time of the greatest triumphs and welcomed their emperors. When all of Rome went out to celebrate its great leaders, conquering new territories, and raising the glory of Rome, they had a citizen who was in charge of the emperor’s day - to - day cry out: “You are also sinning, and you are mortal. ” I think your role, whether we agree with many of your conclusions or not, is very honorable. You put together a report, it could be telegramed to be tight in words, and I think very broadly and that all topics, and we could find them in other documents, have one serious debate. We have participated in the previous elections on the SNS list precisely because we have agreed to go into serious reforms, and when your reports and recommendations are analysed after each of your proposals - go into decisive and courageous reforms. I'll make one of my own free judgments. If you were Prime Minister now and your advisors were members of the government, you would probably lose the next election with most of these measures or achieve a much worse result, but you would do something good for the state. That's the answer to politics. When I mentioned Helmut Cole, do you know what the resistance was to introduce the euro into Germany and deny their national pride breast tags? Only a third of the population supported such measures. However, future events, Helmut Kol assured the German people that Germany's economy would benefit most from the introduction of the euro, and that happened. It is a responsible policymaking, and we really expect, first and foremost, the prime minister and ministers of this government, because that is how we agreed, so we performed in the campaign, to go that way. When it comes to budget projections, budget-making, I've analyzed it a lot, which is just one of the segments of your operation and budget implementation control. In EU countries, this is done in very different ways. It's being prepared somewhere by the ministry in charge, somewhere by the administration, and somewhere by resolution committees. Somewhere, like in Germany, in the House of Representatives of the Greater Elders, it would say to Latina "a college of fetishes", which is preparing a budget proposal with the budget commission. What we could have known from German practice is that the most important German institutes and independent experts are also giving their opinion. The moment Germany's budget is adopted, it's kind of a national holiday, because the main economic policy objectives for next year have been set. I think that's why your role is very important and it's a good thing that we chose in 2011 the Fiscal Council which is on the one hand and the state body, and on the other hand, the independent body. There's something similar in Greece. I had several meetings with representatives of the Greek Commission for the Budget, who also told us that they were part and government bodies because they are funded by the government, but are part and independent because they are in giving their estimates, primarily related to financial stability and macro-economic movements, fully independent. You know what's interesting? A few times ago someone mentioned Greece, so I remembered it. They announced they'd be out of recession soon. It seems to me that it is also under the influence of the EU, because the Greeks have indeed largely, in line with the Balkan mentality, after entering the EU and leading responsible fiscal and monetary policies, been migrating a little and making a number of mistakes that are not made in other EU countries. EU opponents in Serbia attribute it to EU mistakes. I think the EU has helped them the most. What I wanted to say is that every three months, the Commission for the Greek budget publishes on its website budget spending, their estimates of budget spending, budget filling and also proposals on whether something needs to be changed or possibly rebalanced. The public assessment is that the Commission for the Greek budget is much more trusted than the Government and the Greeks have somehow seen in it someone who really is someone who does something similar, which I say you do. The Committee on Finance and Budgetary Control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed conclusions saying that your report is accepted as it is. It is largely primarily an assessment of the inherited situation, a proposal for measures to address inherited problems and a proposal for measures for serious structural reforms. And again, I would mention Mr. Vukic, and I think some of your proposals make it clear that you are proposing measures that are painful and that are politically unpopular. First of all, your relationship to the retirement age line is meant to reduce pensions above 25,000, to tax salaries in the public sector above 40,000 dinars, but while maintaining good public sector personnel. I would not fully agree in that part, especially when reducing pensions above 25,000, because indeed, regardless of the ideologicality and we are someone who thought that the entire system that existed until the 1990s was wrong in all segments of its operation, however, pensioners should be allowed conditions for an even decent life, if they cannot at least comply with what their generations have in more developed countries, even if they should be allowed to pay for communals, to eat and to have medicines, and this is very difficult to implement with these measures. You mentioned the necessity of turning in fiscal policy and that's something in spirit with what the government has announced. Now we'll see, when the government starts with these concrete measures, to what extent they'll match your view of the situation. Then you gave an assessment of the state and perspective of fiscal decentralisation in 2013, proposed a way to fill the deficit in the 25 billion dinar budget and proposed a systematic improvement of the property tax at local level, which, by my estimate, is in spirit with your proposal for reform of the tax administration and to transfer jurisdiction to local self-government in the collection of property taxes. Obviously, that way, the budget would be better filled and it would be much easier to implement all these measures, and when I talk about reforming the tax administration, then I'm going to touch this topic. We are a political party that has since the founding of stories about what is today, unfortunately, an existing situation -- that in the Belgrade circle of the two is turning 3/4 of the country's total capital; that we have the largest imbalance in the degree of unbalanced regional development in Europe 1:15 and, unfortunately, after 2000, it has increased from 1:10 to 1:15; that Belgrade annually receives about 40-50 000 inhabitants, which causes the discharge of the rest of Serbia, and on the other hand, there is a huge pressure on jobs, on housing, on traffic, and that this has consequences of discharge of eastern, southern, central and western Serbia, in part and Vojvodina, but in Vojvodina there is again the best situation in the Great Morava. In this regard, you participated in a really interesting study that we often talked about in the National Assembly, and the other day our MP also asked the government a question, and the study concerns the projection of the population of Serbia from 2010 to 2060. This was done at the request of the European Commission and the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union. There have indeed been catastrophic assessments, but they are in no way different from the evaluation of our parliamentary group, nor the other studies and SANU made a similar study a few years ago, and the black forecasts are, unfortunately, very similar. Here's the thing. The study found that more and more empty villages and cities, that Serbia is on the verge of demographic collapse, would be only six million in ten years. The first effects of support for birth, if taken immediately, will follow only in 2050. In 2030, six million inhabitants will be in Serbia, of which as many as 2/3 will live in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and several major cities. The largest number of villages outside the Vojvodina and the Morava Valley will be abandoned. Unemployment will replace labour shortages. Health and social funds will collapse because they will be twice as old as young. The current situation is difficult, but the worst is yet to come. The census, statistics, demographic researchers all say the same thing – that every day in Serbia, 80 children are less born than Serbian citizens are dying; that today for 31,000 less than 2002; that the average age of the population is 42 years, and somewhere over 50 years; that in 1458 settlements in Serbia, no child has been born; that the last 10 years abroad have gone to live and work by 146 and a half of thousands of highly educated people at the peak of reproductive maturity, and they should have been the bearer of the development of this society; that we are on the edge of the demographic sun, we will see the true face of the demographic sunlight for twenty years, and that the real moves are still missing. What I fully agree with, who should be blamed for this condition? Well, all the previous ones. A simple answer – how to solve this problem – does not exist. He's not even our MP's group. It is simply necessary to work seriously on structural reforms, raising living standards and creating conditions, above all, to economically improve the lives of the population, and then there will be births and there will be fewer evictions. You also gave an assessment of the Energy Protected Customer Regulation. It is one of the social measures and I agree that the ad hoc measure has been extorted, given the assessment of the condition of those who are most vulnerable, and the users are electricity, heat and gas. But I fully agree with you that we will not solve social policy, we will not solve the problems of social policy with ad hoc measures, but a comprehensive reform of social policy. Social policy involves, above all, two types of state action. It's one material aid, whether in money, whether in clothes, wear etc., and the other are services. Whether these are health services, social services, state interventions in domestic violence, child abuse, a difficult economic situation, or other reasons. But we agree fully with you that a new strategy on a new social policy is needed. You have provided an analysis of the Law on Income Tax, on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, the Property Tax Act. We have almost made decisions in this House and as a parliamentary group we were fully aware that and indeed these are also ad hoc measures and that we have a serious work and a systemic action ahead of us in this part. You have been against the ease, temporary exemption of the employer from paying part of the tax and the contribution to profit, and you believe that this will not solve the problem of unemployment or more sensitive to the gray economy and that labour legislation needs to be improved, the conditions of business and the conditions of competitiveness of our economy. It seems to me that some of these solutions are already working, and we expect a new Labour Act to come soon. As for improving business conditions, it is a series of measures that we must adopt. You also gave an assessment of the fiscal developments in 2012, 2013 with some estimates for 2014. Your assessment is that the public debt crisis has not yet been avoided. And to us, that seems to be the case. That the reduction of public debt should be done exclusively by reducing public expenditure, rather than by further increasing public revenues. We are someone who has always said that there are many, many more segments in spending public funds where we can really have serious savings, that we can increase significantly in other fields too. One analysis shows that after 2000, there was a series of good measures ten times higher income from customs. That 25% increased the identification of irregularities in customs offences, but we have also proposed some of the measures, let's say, that despite the internal controls that have existed for decades and that are networked with customs officers, it is easy to carry out external controls and that much better control of the work of customs services is being done because income in the budget is going to be much higher and that we are not really going to have some trivial savings, such as cutting water to ministers and MPs and experts who come to the board meeting, that we will have insignificant savings there. There are many, many of these fields of action and the spending of public funds where we can really save. As far as pension reform is concerned, here we fully agree that it should be theme number one, but to speak a little about it. Of course, it is also a very important political topic and a very important topic for the very lives of pensioners who are in the third age and who are indeed, and I have said it several times, the most conscious part of this society because when they receive such small pensions, they are the first to pay for municipal services, taxes to the state, and to them what remains. There's something about early retirement. As many as 70% of our men retired early as 50% of our women. For what? There is no information here that we are among the countries with the highest number of disabled pensioners and that most often, with respect to those who are really disabled pensioners, it is very often about corruption and crime and the acquisition of disability pensions in an illegal way. How do Germans do that? How do they check for facial disability? If I'm not mistaken every year for disabled pensioners, those who are suspected of being really disabled come to their commission's invitation to a particular place and don't know which place the doctor will be in, or the doctor knows which disabled pensioner comes to check their disability on the basis of a medical examination. If the disability pension is found to have been obtained in an illegal manner, it is also very severe against such a false disabled pensioner, especially against doctors who gave them false medical records and who have greatly damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget. One of the measures that we agree with is the benefits of an internship. I won't mention the profession. But there really are pensioners who, on the basis of the benefits of their work experience, leave at 50 years of age. They can rip their tails off and still do jobs, especially in the field of security, securing services, porters, guards, and what I know. Imagine a radical situation that such a man is receiving from a state pension, and someone who is really on the verge of working ability and age still has to work, and who knows what kind of pension he's going to have, and that's something that I'm saying is the assessment that we fully agree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3354	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. Your time is up. The word has an authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament today are discussing several reports, above all on the Central Register's business and the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2013 and the clearing of deposits and clearing of securities of value. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, I can only say that the Fiscal Council is present in both the public of Serbia and the National Assembly, especially when discussing the budget and budget rebalancing. I think the Fiscal Council is doing its job well, giving objective and realistic opinions and suggestions that we may not like sometimes, but I also think that as a society and as a country in the coming period we must respect the recommendations of the Fiscal Council and go through the measures and savings and reorganisation due to Serbia's economic recovery. I would agree with my colleague, Arsic, in a proposal from the Fiscal Council, that you, your recommendations, your suggestions, your suggestions, your suggestions, help us as MPs strengthen our control role towards the executive authority. I believe it is important for the resolution board, but also for all the MPs, and I expect it in the coming period from you. I will take this opportunity to focus, above all, on the report on the operation of the Central Depositary Register and on the clearing of securities of value and on the current situation in the Serbian capital market. First of all, I have to point out that I am more than pleasantly surprised by the business result achieved after the draw line, when it comes to the Central Register, because the report in which the net profit is found to be more than 32 million is for each commendation, which is how much you have stated five times the planned result. I am extremely pleased with this fact, because it shows two things, that the Central Register and as many as you have said, 34 and 35 employees in the Central Register, were well placed in the new situation and that during the period of this ongoing crisis, the registry managed to develop the maximum range of jobs and services that are carried out in accordance with the law. It is clear that, in this way, adequate diversification of expected revenues has also been achieved and therefore the business result is far better than expected. Of course, the business of this institution cannot be viewed isolated from the overall situation of the capital market in Serbia, because the Central Register together with the Belgrade Stock Exchange, with the Securities Commission, with brokerage and investment societies, funds and authorised banks, is actually one system of merged courts. When successful business on the financial market, when solid transport of marketable material is realised, therefore, securities of value, it is logical that institutions that represent the carrying pillars of the capital market also achieve good results. In view of the fact that the competent assembly board has not accepted the Annual Report of the Securities Commission, for the past year, that brokerage and distillers companies are becoming increasingly debilitated and stop working, that the Belgrade Stock Exchange has been recording a catastrophic financial result for several years, even more so, the 32m gains of the Central Register. As I said, it is for every praise, but "one owner does not do spring" and one company that successfully operates in the overall environment, financially, very badly, cannot survive in such a way on the market for long. The report that we are discussing today explicitly states that the importance of the capital market is reflected in the following, in capital collection, in the efficient location of capital, in investment under equal conditions, in enabling transparency and assessment of different investment opportunities and in enabling the achievement of income and in particular general economic growth. I think you'll agree with me that in the meantime, a lot of opportunities have been missed to make things better. I can't help but recall in 2007, when it was a golden age or even in 2008, when it was said that there would be no economic crisis with us, that it would bypass us, that this crisis would in fact represent our economic chance, and even at the end of 2008, when the crisis began to take hold, the state of Serbia and the then government took certain steps towards the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, but by focusing predominantly on the work and liquidity of business banks. It was believed that under the conditions of a galloping crisis, the accent should be placed on the preservation of this segment, that the savings roles of citizens should be guaranteed, while the capital market is still sealed and left to the market line. Thus, a good part of our business entities missed one big chance to get fresh financial resources in the way it is done in developed economic and democratic countries, but unfortunately, we have relied on expensive loans that are present today for the return of these loans and other reasons. Everything that happened later certainly did not present any surprise for the experts addressed in this area. The additional problem was that since 2008, not only in Serbia but also in the region, a large number of significant investors have withdrawn and, unfortunately, it has led to a complete collapse of the financial market, to the sun of all actions of value and catastrophic decline in traffic. The rest are practically only those who really had no place to go and who have hope and believe that the situation that is very difficult in the coming period will improve. I am absolutely convinced that the people involved in planning in the Central Register are aware that without their members, they cannot survive in the financial market for long. And you in this 2013 report state that no new members have been admitted and that four members of the Central Register have ceased. I sincerely admire all the brokerage houses that in the last 10 years do business in this way and under these conditions. And when I mention the dependence of the Central Register on the survival of members, primarily brokerage houses, I will try to present this situation on one particular case, primarily because of viewers, our citizens watching this transmission. Let's imagine that the Serbian financial market is one big green market. The central register, securities of value, the Belgrade Stock Exchange and other institutions that provide adequate conditions for its functioning would in this case have the status of a public-communal company "City Markets". It would be said that in the functioning of this system there should be no problem at all, because the goods in the markets are on the market, the merchants are buying gigs, the buyers are buying goods. However, a small problem arises. Over time, competition arises in terms of large hypermarkets that have lower prices, customers suddenly withdraw there, traders or sellers no longer have that interest in buying gigs and suddenly a business that works well in the problem. This is a scenario that, unfortunately, has largely taken place on our financial market, and the state has not responded properly. Just enough to compare the annual, monthly, weekly, daily statistics on the Belgrade Stock Exchange site to get a complete picture of the devastion of the Serbian capital market. When we consider today this report of yours that is excellent, we must bear in mind the fact that you cannot successfully do business in the long term without the root change in the overall environment. Although I did not, nor did my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, experts in this area, but as MPs we are headed for the fiscal situation, into Serbia's economic market. By preparing for this debate today, I would only single out two concrete proposals that I would suggest, which, of course, does not depend directly on you. I think that the state must give the financial market that additional impulse, above all, to allow the stock market to be made available to the remaining companies carefully guarded so far, and whose capital has long been nominated and actions have been shared with Serbian citizens. Another concrete proposal would refer to a new financial instrument that could be attractive to potential investors. I only mention one who, in my opinion, was good and did not live to life – records of values broadcast by units of local self-government that practically did not happen. I have to be objective to the end and say that even in our close surroundings, roses do not bloom, but that the stock exchanges in Zagreb and Ljubljana are working normally. Of course, not as high as a few years ago and as expected, but any comparison with our situation at this point is still inappropriate and we are, unfortunately, in a much worse situation. I'm going to finish this statement by finding that the state through the competent institutions must make a final effort in this difficult economic situation to correct the situation on our capital market, because otherwise, in the next few years, in my opinion, we in this esteemed House have nothing to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3356	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. A representative of the parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3357	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Fiscal Council, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we have had the opportunity to speak to representatives of independent regulatory bodies and to hear something different about reality in Serbia compared to what we can hear from, to a good degree, controlled state media, and it is not great and it is not as it is on these media. We talked about media independence and respect for citizens' rights. Today we have come to the subject of fiscal policy and what is in the jurisdiction of the Fiscal Council, and that is to have some fiscal policy correction led by the Government. It is said here in the opening remarks, concerning the report of the Fiscal Council, that it gives an independent and credible economic policy assessment, assesses the fiscal risks and the likelihood that the government will meet fiscal goals in the future and assess to what extent the government has respected the fiscal rules it has established in the past. In any case, one authority has been given to the Fiscal Council from which the more detailed powers and the Fiscal Council go, I would say, over the past period, it has retained its credibility and independence, which in some ways has been provided to it by the legal acts that have been formed, but, of course, it depends on the personal composition of the Fiscal Council, which is not negligible. However, on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, I ask one basic question: what is the function of the Fiscal Council today? Not wanting to really derrogate the very important normative role you have, but we don't really have the country's fiscal policy. What do you have to assess, what kind of policy and what risks in that policy, when we haven't essentially received the documents that we should present to that government policy here. Yes, she was announced in the exposé, but she was - she wasn't here. They were some segments of that policy, and those policy segments were borrowings. So, as much as yesterday or the day before yesterday, we had new borrowings on the agenda, without the fact that we have a clear policy on how these loans will be returned. We had an exposé and a promise that the most rigorous black market will be contained, I almost quote -- although it does not represent such negative potential, as it is said, but that in some way it would support those who work legally, a given black market should be contained. To this day I don't see anything in that sense that's been done to make the state register better charged from these sources, which would go from black to legal market. On the contrary, I believe that the gray market has never been larger in the last ten years. This is, of course, due to the difficult economic situation in which citizens live, but also to the fact that legal flows, those operating legal flows, are additionally burdened by the measures that have only been put into effect these days, which, for example, are lowlifes, are significantly difficult and they will probably either cease to exist or some of them will go into that illegal market. We have a few things here in your report that I would like to refer to, but above all, to the fact that the objective of fiscal policy should be an annual deficit within a mid-term of 1% of GDP, so I ask you, Mr Petrovic, and all the other members of the Fiscal Council, is this even realistic and whether this fiscal policy, which does not exist, can lead to 1% of the fiscal deficit compared to GDP in the medium term? The second question is, are your estimates that the level of government debt can be reduced to 45% of GDP, which is considered acceptable? If we look at the country's growth scale, so in June 2012, the debt was about 9% higher, and it was 54.7%. This is the source of "Blica". However, already in 2013 the debt rose to 61.2% of GDP and reached 20.089 billion compared to some 15 billion, which was in 2012. At the end of 2014, it can be estimated that the debt will be at 63% of GDP if it is trusted by these forecasts. With that in mind, the question is, although I am forced to answer, do they accept and respect the recommendations of the Fiscal Council, and did you ever have the opportunity to react to any measures this year? We had some of your opinions on some planned measures, and do you at all have a credible fiscal policy that you would react to with your advice at this time, or are you in a situation where you don't see what this country's fiscal policy is and how will, above all, be achieved, these two objectives, when it comes to the percentage of GDP deficits and the percentage of GDP debt? To what extent is your proposal to stabilise the domestic public finances that you have made? To what extent have your advice regarding the pension system, the system of income and employment in the state sector been accepted, or in the meantime we have had some ad hoc measures that have been more wandering than the real fiscal policy, and above all I mean taxing the profits of professors, doctors, etc., which essentially have not brought great benefits to the budget, but have, above all, made one other problem, and this is the possibility of losing those very high-quality people? Do your advice on subsidies apply to what extent? Can these recommendations conclude that there is no clear criterion for granting subsidies? It seems to me that this is the case and that the subsidies at this point are somehow once again left to the ad hoc policies of individual ministries and there is no comprehensive solution. You said in your report that you had reached co-operation with the government's representatives. This is a very interesting finding for me, a language finessa perhaps, and perhaps not, because it's a little bit of an eyelash. When you say what kind of cooperation you've made with some other entities, let's say the Treasury and Public Debt Administration, you say successful co-operation has been achieved. Is that a coincidence or not? You worked with the government, and with the Treasury and the Public Debt Department, you achieved successful co-operation, even for media cooperation, you said good co-operation was achieved. There are no attributes or adjectives: good, successful with the government, but some cooperation exists. What is this level of co-operation? I'd say from this, he's pretty low when it's only evaluated this way through the term of co-operation. On the other hand, an interesting finding from this sort of layout of the professional frame that you have, the number of secretaries, the perpetrators, and so on. It seems that your capacities aren't something great, but they even seem to be four or five people sitting in one office or it seems to me, but based on this number of offices and everything else, you seem to have a pretty collective system of work. I don't think it contributes to the efficiency of the work, unlike some who have quite large cabinets and haven't exactly stopped to cut down and their cabinets and maybe share them with the Fiscal Council, to assign you an even bigger office, in which at least three of you could sit, let's just say, not to exaggerate that everyone has their own office. However, the Fiscal Council is probably “not worthy, ” for it is only advice. In that sense, I'd like to hear some answers to these questions. Of course, our MP group will support your report, we appreciate your efforts and your intentions to be a piece of advice, even if you don't have some basis to intervene on. In this regard, we hope that in some future period this government will have a fiscal policy, not to say a clear fiscal policy, since there is no fiscal policy now. Perhaps it will be given through budget rebalancing and the announced laws of Mr Krstic, which these days are not seen here in the Assembly, although there were some draft laws that he might have defended. He may indeed have been engaged in making that fiscal policy, but he came from abroad a long time ago, and he could have presented something of it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3358	Since no one has been reported by the representatives of the parliamentary groups for a word, I am moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3359	The Honorable Director, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report that we will of course support for several reasons, and one of them is that this is one of the most serious criticisms of the current government that has been given in this House, in this assembly, which was also the case in the previous assembly. These four measures we have proposed are an absolute voice of reason on the Serbian economic, fiscal and political scene. Of course, all these four measures are in very close agreement with the New Party programme in these areas, but it doesn't matter today. It is important that Serbia is in an economic collapse, that there is no need to look for the guilty because they know each other. These are the previous authorities. I'm not just thinking about this power that's been in place since 2012, I'm thinking about that power that took over this country 10 years ago. Their autistic, incompetent, political and demagogue policy in all spheres, even in the sphere of economy, has led to problems that are very difficult to solve. These recommendations from the Fiscal Council are kind of an emergency, like something that needs to be done right away, which has to be implemented yesterday, and unfortunately that's not done. The first measure is pension reform. There is absolutely nothing to be done, unless under reforms it amounts to a total of 60m euros annually from the Health Fund and the transfer of those money to the Pension Fund. It's not reform, it's pre-dominance. You take away from treating children, sick people to patch up a hole that doesn't patch up like that. Profits and employment in the public sector are too large and, of course, everyone said it would be settled. That didn't happen, but last year we had tens of thousands of employees, we have 51 billion losses in public enterprises, we have that a 10% reduction in wages in the public sector is delayed due to floods. I understand that in the public sector, in the area of flooded municipalities, application is delayed or this reduction of wages is introduced throughout the territory, and that through some other species it is helped to help people overcome the severe consequences of floods. I really don't know what the delay in cutting wages in the public sector in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad with floods is, and there is 90% of the public sector. Reforms in state and public enterprises did not occur, except to re-enlarge the number of employees in these companies as well as in the previous period, as did five years ago, as 10 years ago, and only because they have a party book. We have "Serbigas" who is the world's losing champion. I don't believe there's a company in the world that has such huge losses. In a normal world, such companies go bankrupt, and some others are formed. Here you mentioned JAT's claims through the Etyhad contract to form a new company. It would be good for you to tell us what your debts are, since we don't have a contract today. It's the most secure secret in Serbia. Probably something very good in that contract as soon as it's guarded. Subsidies, which have been thrown both left and right, and by hand and hat, should only be directed where there is no expressed economic interest in investment. It's probably most of the farming in those branches where we can take an export step forward and subsidize imports. You are a voice of reason and a grain of wisdom, or a little more than a grain of wisdom, in today's economic policy and politics at all. I'm worried about you. As such, I'm afraid you're not fond of the current government. Finally, it was all according to the Fiscal Council, it's completely pointless that the Central Register doesn't have its own room. In Serbia, millions of square meters of state-owned business space are empty and it is pointless to pay rent, however favourable it is. I'd like to get answers to these questions I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3360	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3361	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, respected citizens who watch this, I thought that some people, or that wisdom comes with age. It's obvious that some people only come in years. I could've figured that out from the previous speech. I'll support this report. I am grateful for the role of the Fiscal Council, regardless of certain securities between the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the adoption of the budget, in the rebalancing of the budget, etc. The role of the Fiscal Council is certainly immeasurable, their contribution is immeasurable, given that some of their suggestions are included in the budgets and budget rebalances. So, they're here to warn us when we're overdoing it. It's a big question when our troubles started. I do not agree that Serbia's economic collapse has come due to the work of all governments in the last 10 years. I'd put it on, let's be, in the last 14 years, with the obvious problems being inherited in 2012. Only commitments in the next two years, in terms of debt and interest, were around 10 billion euros. It's a condition that's been found. In two years, since 2012, two billion interest payments and about 7-8 billion debts have been paid back. Also, the deficit found in half of 2012 was close to two billion euros, and with those two billion euros, it was four billion euros. For this new task, which is mentioned, of 5-6 billion just for the service of interest and the budget deficit, we needed four billion plus basic wars to be reprogrammed. Unfortunately, we've reprogrammed this with new loans and new loans. Why? Because the previous debt was 15, 16, 17 billion, which is only the debt of the state, the debt of the economy was 22 billion, the debt of the population of 5-6 billion. The debt found in 2012, the total debt of the population, state and economy, was 45 billion. In such conditions it was difficult to serve interest, and it was particularly difficult that the debt was not all negative, but for this large, astronomical debt was not created a source of debt recovery. In 2012, the government that inherited all these former governments, from 2000 to 2012, did not find resources for the money, which was in charge of the country, the economy, to repay the debt. There was no economy that could serve it. There's no social product out there. There was no export because we had a foreign account deficit, not just a budget deficit, a foreign account deficit. So there was nothing out of which exports, from which goods, from which work to repay debts. Then one debt was returned to other debts and one hole smaller could not be covered with a larger hole. That's what we agree on. The second solution was not, since the money that has been spent since 2000, and it is not just about the money that is in charge, it is about huge donations, it has been spent. Money from all social capital has also been spent. All the assets were sold, all the companies, and that money did not go to the economy, but went to public consumption, and through public consumption was not raised by our production, but produced in the countries from which goods came through the opening, the sudden opening of foreign trade chains. Domestic banks have been destroyed and our financial market has fallen to foreigners with over 85%. In such conditions, serving about 10 billion obligations by former governments that made mistakes was a real undertaking. At the time of these former governments in 2012, we lived off the man in charge. We lived off donor funds, spent everything the diaspora put in. She put it somewhere in those 12 years near 50 billion euros. Exactly how much the diaspora has put in us, we have spent it with money, and by the estimates of international organisations from Serbia, more than 51 billion euros have been taken out and placed on various private accounts, on the accounts of people living while Serbian citizens barely survive. So these aren't my estimates, they're the evaluations of international organizations that deal with it. The role of the Fiscal Council is also valuable in the discipline of our MPs, the government's discipline in trying to reduce the budget deficit as much as possible and finally make the country go the right way. I would like the Fiscal Council to be even more stringent, to ask us to make a state that we can finance, that this country should not be violence against ordinary citizens, that this state should be experienced by all citizens like our country, that it be cheap and that it can be harmonised so that it can spend as much as it collects income and not behave as the previous governments did. They lived on the person in charge, so he says, "If you can't make as much money as we can in the public sector, then we will assign you, and you shall make sure that the generation of those debts will pay back." Today, such people appear as top critics. We even heard here from the previous speaker, who I said was my generation and that wisdom should come with age and only come years, about like this -- that subsidies were divided by hand and hat. I really don't know what I'm going to say anymore in this assembly, because it's the one who said it was the user of 55,000 euros in wine subsidies, which he said, of course, that money is from the budget, that job will be for life. After three years, however, he spent the rest of his life doing the job. Vinograd sold, bought an apartment in Vracar, and today he criticises governments that shared subsidies with hand and hat. I think there are such penetrating cheeks among us politicians that it is possible to make shoe soles out of such cheeks. Those shoes would be insecure. I think these cheeks can make vests for very large calibers and I don't think they could get through them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3362	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. On what grounds? The only thing that's possible is that you recognized yourself in the presentation of the previous speaker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3363	It is very nice that in a difficult situation in Serbia there are moments like this where parliament smiles at something that we might call an attempt of wit. I'm very glad that there are people here who would like to do my biography, who would like to deal with my creation in the past, but I'm not that kind of man. I don't need that, and when I go into some serious years I will write my own autobiography, and by then every competent state body, as was the case since 1992, ever since I was involved in politics or in 1986 when I started doing private business, can verify all the legality of my work on any basis, whether in a private company, or in the Assembly of the City of Nis, whether in the Federal Government, or in the Government of Serbia, whether it's export business, subsidies, real estate or anything. It exists in Serbia, because of the public, the possibility of examining the origin of the property. It is the Tax Police Act, if I remember correctly, which has one member of 153, if I am not mistaken, which allows the tax police authorities to question Serbian citizens with a question – how did you buy an apartment, a car, a part of a company or something like that? The law was passed in 2003. Of course I signed the bill on behalf of the Serbian government and the law has been applied since 2004. So far, I am the only politician over whom the law was implemented in 2010 and 2011. (President: Time.) One more sentence. I thank you for that exclusive... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3364	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3365	I think my colleague by profession, the farmer, got me wrong. No fact has been denied from my presentation. I was talking about the height of the debt. I also talked about a speaker talking about the subsidies distributed by hand and hat, and he withdrew 525,000 euros in wine subsidies. It wasn't a wish to make anyone laugh, nor was it a laugh. I think that's the information for grief, for concern, and that's the information that needs to tell us where we got all these deficits going on in the past. The previous speaker also spoke about the control that was carried out. They controlled themselves. The big question will be, if some control is now carried out, what will it determine. It's easy for a goat to keep the cabbage itself, then it's control of that species that she'll always deny who ate the cabbage. I can't think of writing anyone's biographies, especially his. I can't think of criticizing him at the time of the previous speaker, when he smuggled pumpkins. That job was an emergency job. Everyone has the right to do business... (Chairman: Mr. Risticevic, bring the end. )......................................................................................................... I apologize for feeding his family. I criticized him in that part, or my intention was to criticize the officials in the part where they used the position not to fight for the greater good but for their own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3366	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Let MP Goran Kovacevic be prepared as the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3367	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Petrovich, I'm glad you're here. I have to admit, it's hard for you to resist anything when you write a report because your scientific opus and everything you've ever done to us young people, who are at the beginning of scientific work, is hard to give us the right to oppose you somewhere, because you're a serious man. It's that sometimes quiet, slow talk, but it sure sounds good. Sometimes I don't agree with what you say. Sometimes I think you guys from the Fiscal Council and you overestimate some grades, but that might be good. Because then you turn on all the spirits in this society and someone has to and act by what you emphasize. Here's 90% of this report you gave me, I'd sign without a problem. It was given at a time when no one could predict that there would be floods and such complete chaos that hit us and that led to new costs. Of course, some priorities will change safely in the work of the government, especially in terms of economic consolidation. There's no dilemma. Of course, it's none of your business, but when we talk about reports like this, we need to get back to the past. You know, coming into an empty house and trying to do something about it, it's really hard. You can't squeeze dry dreno. We need to be completely realistic about ourselves. We paid our salaries and pensions back years by raising our loans. We don't have any real economy. There's no real source of income. And objectively, no economy here has worked and everything has been based on it -- let's raise the credit, pay the public sector salary or pension. In doing so, we accumulated the public sector into unconsciousness, that this was the point of the shooting, and now someone has to rationalise it, and it's very difficult. Because when you fire someone, and according to the current Labour Act, it's usually very difficult, I hope it changes very quickly, but even if you fire them, where they find a job when in the private sector right now we don't have any real basis that we can somehow transfer these people to the private sector. I hope that the government will bring, of course, with these tax reliefs to all the privates that have been given, but that some more measures will be taken to speed up the private sector. Otherwise, I'm a big fan of the private sector. When I read this report of yours, there's now this conflict between the two schools. Are you up for total liberalisation of everything, which I'm not otherwise a supporter of, or are you for some kind of state interventionism, which we see today, for example. The U.S., what are the cradles of the liberal economy, apply? We had an example in Ford, where the United States is directly governmental, in fact their congress voted to intervene to save that factory. So somewhere along the way, those two concepts need to be reconciled and see what we can do. Of course, it's going to be very difficult. The measures you've proposed here, and that's why I want to ask you, let's say, you cite here the construction of public enterprises, which I agree, I'll go back to that, but also the banking sector. Now I'm wondering if you mean the full privatisation of all the banks this state has in its possession, which I don't think is exactly the right concept. I agree that there have been incredible abuses in our state banks, let's remember the Agrobanks and the Vojvodina Development Banks, the previously "Metals Bank", and later "Vojvodina Development Bank". That, of course, could never happen in a private bank. Try, for example, to go to the Intect Bank now, or any other bank, and ask for a loan in nice eyes, to give you one 10m euros on your ID card. It's nowhere to be found. But again, we need to be aware that there are certain state-owned enterprises and institutions here, such as the MUP and such as the SDPR, that are doing a certain trade across some banks. There's still got to be some state control. You can't privatize everything and give it to everyone absolutely for insight. I'm interested in the concept of the Fiscal Council on this, because it's very important to explain to people what to do with our banking sector. On the other hand, as far as public enterprises are concerned, that's where we have to agree. We've had one complete mess with enterprises in restructuring. That state can no longer finance, it's clear as day, because it's a huge budget gap that's being created there. It's just impossible to pour money into something that doesn't have any productivity. It just doesn't work. Will all businesses have a solution? I'm convinced he won't, and it's impossible to find a solution for all the companies, I think there's about 140 and something, but there's a new problem here now. Here, you have an example of the Ironworks in Smederev. I hope that the FAP in Priboj will be resolved, but you also have the First Petolets and you have as many other companies as you want. What do you do with so many people who are objectively getting paid and not working? How do people hire you and stimulate you in some way? I'd like to say, in your report here, some solution has been given, some solution to what to do with them. Of course, the Serbian government doesn't have to listen to your solution either, you're an independent body, but it would be good to open up a broad debate, and I'm fully in favour of that kind of thing, to see what we do with these people. As far as subsidies are concerned, and I can agree with you there that maybe we should stop at some point, but let's try. At least for these two years, it seems to me, the government has given me a good concept, in the next two years, to help to simply raise the economy, to do something about it. We now have another concept to completely end it, but basically how does someone here start any business? I think as a state, we're objectively in big trouble, because we don't have a real source of income. Of course, that's what you see and you make it very nice in your report. I think today is the biggest patriotism in this country, not drilling into the chest and talking about some battles, which is of course important for our history, it's absolutely something we're proud of, but today is the greatest battle and the greatest patriotism to hire a man and open a company. I don't think there's any greater patriotism at this point, because only an economically and economically strong state can mate with both pressures and something that surrounds us and, of course, it can be as much an equal partner in some international relations. With that in mind, I'd like you to give me the answers to these questions I've asked you. Of course, in the voting day, I will vote for your report, as well as a complete group of the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you for putting up with this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3368	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3369	Ladies and gentlemen, since the time of The New Deal, the main source of the expansion of the state administration and the major interference in each country's fiscal policy has been the need to reduce unemployment. That's what Milton Friedman says. Since the state subsidy has never yielded the expected results, a secular strategy theory has been established, which should show that increasing state spending and increasing fiscal commitments contribute to a better society. It's known in economic theory to consider Milton Friedman on Canes' idea of $100 that comes from the lack and non-receivement of tax revenues. If we're theoretically discussing it, we can come from a multiplication number to a growth of social gross product from 0 to 300. If we listen to Canes - 300, if we listen to Milton Friedman - 0, but it certainly is a fact that there are no adequate indicators in the theory of proven indicators that measure the country's investment in fiscal policies in the growth of social gross products. But the essential question is, where did that $100 come from? Today, in economic theory and economic practice, we are very often discussing topics that have been discussed decades ago and with which there are no longer polemics in serious economic theory and in serious economic practice. And when one of the messengers says, "It's not too late," it's too late today. Today, it is too late for macro-economic rules, both in fiscal and economic policy. When we talk about it, in fact, we are talking about the current situation which is catastrophic, but this is more about the economic, or fiscal and monetary measures that some of the previous governments have done and brought. When we talk today about three key objectives of every macro-economic policy, it is a growth of social gross product, a low level of unemployment, i.e. voluntary unemployment and a stable level of price. If you look at that, then in Serbia all three of these key economic parameters are tragic. In your report, when you define a mission, you say that this mission must be defined in accordance with fiscal rules, i.e. fiscal policy must comply with these rules. We can work things out about fiscal rules today, and they can be different. We can talk about EU fiscal rules, but it is certainly a fact that there are no clear and unquestionable fiscal rules that exist today in world theory. If there are no clear and defined fiscal rules, then the fiscal policy you apply can be different from the rules you define. One of my ideas and one of my proposals certainly is, reading some theoretical considerations, and one theory says that every national economy that takes more than 25 and 29% of the social gross product from the population sector comes into a situation of lack of competitiveness on the global market. I think the Fiscal Council should finally say how fiscal and parafiscal interventions are from the economy and population sector in Serbia, what is the percentage compared to the social gross product, because it tragically prevents the competitive ability of the Serbian economy, and thus creates all problems in the area both fiscal and monetary policies. Today, when it comes to reforms to be made in fiscal policy, monetary policy, in the overall conduct of macroeconomic policy at the Serbian state level, it is, in fact, the application of clean economic laws that already exist. And it's primarily about changes and reforms that can happen in the public sector. In a sector that has been tragically abandoned because it has been working backwards for decades in such a way that it does not respect the basic economic principles, freedom and is primarily concerned with state ownership and the functioning of public enterprises in the sector. If you are talking about the problems that will arise, you must understand that the state of Serbia is social, a state that acts primarily on fiscal obligations arising from different social programmes and that any individual who has the primary interest in providing its existence from the Serbian state's fiscal income will be affected, but the alternatives at this point certainly are not. If you understand fiscal policy, which is essentially what it is, as an allocation of resources, because you're actually taking funds from where they come from and moving them to places where they need to be spent, then fiscal justice is what should be expected, not pleasure when I look at your financial report today. Looking at that report, I was able to make a statement, and I saw it on your board, as it says in the 21st employee report. You said it was something different. It is my pleasure to look at today, that staff expenditures were planned at 20,040,000 that gross incomes of employees were planned at a rate of 106,000 per month, and that you actually made savings in 2013. You've spent about 75% of your staff expenditures somewhere, and basically these expenditures amount to about 63,000 and 15.600,000, respectively, on an annual basis. She had the satisfaction, although the number you said at the agency was relatively small to make these indicators different, but my pleasure is, because with these indicators, it's three to four times less than the expenditure on employees at the monthly level at a gross amount per government institution, that is, in situations where the government is the founder of anything. That is why I fully agree with you that one of the things that needs to be reformed is incomes, i.e. expenditures in the fiscal system that are driven by expenditure on employees. You know, what's the cost? It's nothing, our logical perception, our individual perception. But if you look at a state of Serbia in which 12% of the population works in the public sector in whatever way it defines it, or what comes from fiscal income, that when you compare one nation that has 100 million inhabitants or a billion inhabitants, if in that nation 12 million, or 120 million works and is financed from fiscal incomes through employee expenditures, is there any chance that these leading world nations are so competitive today? What I suspect in one of your proposals is only partially, it's on page 15 where you're talking about enterprises that need to be reformed. You make it very clear, and there's nothing controversial about it, that these companies, because they have no perspective, need to go bankrupt. But there's a little problem, I think, when you say that from the incomes that come from the sale of assets you need to finance a social programme. I don't think that's possible, because I don't know any of the companies that have found themselves in a situation where you find that it is, that there's no perspective because it's probably in negative capital, it's supposed to go bankrupt, it's got any capital, it's actually got a negative capital, so that's where the social programme is financed. I do not dispute that it can be one of the choices for funding the social programme, but it cannot possibly be the only one, because it will not be compared to the number of people working in these companies and the amount of capital I do not think exists to lead to different social programmes in different institutions. I don't want anything too much to look back on. Of course, reform of the pension system and long-term planning of the pension fund are necessary, it is not disputed. Of course, it is indisputable that we have to reduce the budget deficit and of course we have to reduce the public debt. What's causing my attention is fiscal decentralisation that's kind of going through, I think, quite slowly and insufficiently. In the process of further reforming the new fiscal rules, the fiscal policy that needs to be defined, fiscal decentralisation is one of the key things that can change the fiscal order of the Serbian state. Fiscal decentralisation does not need to automatically mean reducing and increasing deficits in the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor must I automatically mean increasing local revenues from local communities. Fiscal decentralisation actually means, and I stand for it, full responsibility for local communities not only to the level of local administrations, but to the lower. What's said in theory, little budgets. Small budgets are a very important thing so that citizens of Serbia who are relatively difficult to experience fiscal policy for objective reasons can understand and have part of their participation in responsibility and functioning for all things and have a real sense of income control that sets out for the functioning of the state. At the same time, and based on a different level of fiscal income that can be collected at local community level. It can also be a mechanism for attracting foreign investment, both domestic and foreign. It is indisputable that local communities located on key infrastructure routes have a greater opportunity to attract investment. If you have fiscal decentralisation and the possibility of a greater difference in fiscal income, it can be a good mechanism for attracting investment. The growth of public consumption certainly must be stopped. You say that, it is supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is supported by this parliament. But certainly we all need to be aware that getting out of this difficult economic situation is not just an increase in income on the fiscal side. The increase in revenues on the fiscal side at a time when it so burdens the Serbian economy, that the economy is becoming dysfunctional, is halting this increase in the essence of fiscal reforms. The reduction of fiscal expenditures is inevitable, necessarily, cannot be discussed because if there is no such thing, there is no economic future for the Serbian economy. The Serbian Progressive Party will support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3370	The word has the last speaker on Dejan Radenkovic's list. Here you go. Oh, no? All right. Does anyone else come forward from the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups for a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go. So now I've called you well. Don't confuse the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3371	Thank you. I wouldn't say you're confusing, but there's probably a misunderstanding because I'm authorized in front of a parliamentary group, and I'm also on the speaker list. Since I did not take part at the very beginning as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I will take it at the very end, although we may all look forward to bringing an end to this debate. What I would just like to point out on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group that the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this report and the Committee's conclusions. I repeat again, as we did yesterday, that all the institutions that are the image of this state have our full support. So they have to be credible, they have to be independent, we have to, even though we sometimes don't like it, we have to take some advice. It may be painful, but it simply in perspective can only lead to a better standard and a better life for all citizens in our country. About the Central Register, about the financial market, I don't want us to derail now. The report of both institutions is very correct. The financial market is unfortunately in a situation where it is and so it is. I expect that in the next period we will do everything to shake it up, wake it up, that it works, because it is evident that it is now at a very low level, and of course we have to do everything, to run it, and for that are the basic conditions to privatise some of the larger public enterprises, and these days we have these announcements and I hope that, when it starts, that the financial market will wake up. Once again, I won't hold you back, the SPS will vote for the committee's reports and conclusions after this debate. So much for us and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3372	As in Article 96. The Rules of Procedure are no longer registered, they are not in the system, they are not on the lists, I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals of the acts referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda. We're moving on to a hearing. 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. I'm sorry, we closed the debate, we can't go back to the earlier agenda, it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, Parliament insists, and will you go over this to make a correction and give the word. Mr. Petrovic is not an MP, and he doesn't know our Rules of Procedure, so we will return to the intervention of the MPs after all. Here's to show that we are the house of democracy and that we respect the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3373	I wanted to thank you. I'll speak very briefly. This was very useful and productive for us, and a lot of questions came out. I don't think there's any point in answering individual questions right now, but most of these questions or almost all of them will be treated in our reports. The majority of these issues will be addressed in a report that is related to budget rebalancing, economic policy, government fiscal policy for next year, and will then be able to answer all these questions, including the solidarity tax, salaries and pensions, pension reform, the effects of the consolidation of savings on economic growth, the huge deficit of 1.45% of the debt, because I would like to say that this is the goal, the long-term goal, and what is the medium-term objective, is to achieve a deficit in 2017 from 2.5% to 3.5% and to stabilise public debt growth, and only later. Also, our estimates of subsidies and what effect it is, and finally on the banking system and public enterprises, but right now I really think that would go far. We had these questions in mind anyway, and now in the next report we will treat it and in particular draw attention to it, and some of it is already in our 2012 document. I thank you once again for this useful conversation and I hope that we will have productive exchanges beyond and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3374	I thank you, too. Can I close the debate another time? Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 6 and 7 of the agenda, and I thank you for your work. We're moving on to a joint single search on the point. 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions in point. 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission for the monitoring of the implementation of the National Action Plan for the application of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council of the UN – Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia; a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Proposer, or representatives of the Proposer, want a word? Mr. Zoran Babic? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of course, should not now be talking about the importance of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, which concerns - Women, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted in the previous session and the Commission's decision to follow-up to the implementation of the National Action Plan for the Implementation of the Resolution, was adopted in 2011. I don't know if all the MPs were involved in making that decision, but I don't think that matters right now. All colleagues are very aware of why it is important to include women in security processes, peace processes and indeed the adoption of the UN resolution in 2000 was one of the key points in the development of women's and human rights, and this was the moment when the international community recognized the importance of women's participation in peace processes and security structures. I think that women in Serbia have certainly contributed, and I would really just like to talk about this, which is what we need to talk about today, and that is the decision to set out the composition of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. Otherwise, the composition of this committee is determined by the decision we made in 2011, which states that the Commission is being educated in the next composition – a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, whose work is the issue of gender equality, a representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, the issues in the field of defence and internal affairs, the representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, the questions in the field of external affairs, the representative of the Committee of the National Assembly, the issues in which the issues in the field of work, social policy, the representative of the Committee of the National Assembly are in which the questions in the field of justice and state administration and the representative of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. It is a decision adopted by the majority in this Assembly, which at that moment the largest number of MPs had DS and behind that decision of course we are standing. What may be new to our colleagues from the current ruling majority, it is that in the committees of the National Assembly, there are also opposition MPs and that it is certainly one of the proposed MPs, to be part of the monitoring committee for the implementation of this resolution, could come from the ranks of the opposition. As proposed by the President, this commission should do: MP Ljiljana Malusic, who represents the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of the National Assembly of the SNS; National MP Marija Obradović, representative of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs of the National Assembly of the SNS; MP Zlata Đeric, representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly from New Serbia, also elected from the electoral SNS; MP Milanka Jevkojic, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty of the National Assembly, also from the SNS; MP Biljana Ilic Stošić, representative of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government of the National Assembly of the SNS; Kosana Bakelj, Assistant Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. Probably if there was someone from the SNS in this place to suggest someone from your party. In addition to the devastating fact that only the MPs and not the MPs are involved in the work of this committee, which shows that they are probably not interested in its work, in issues of gender equality, in the question of women's participation in peace processes, and that it seems to me that, after a long time, we are adopting the composition of a body in which there will be no one from the opposition. I have no hope that this proposal will be accepted because yesterday we had the opportunity to hear that SNS MPs do not even vote on those proposals they agree with and that they can say that they are extremely good, but here is another call to think about it. Don't make a commission just from one party's representatives. It's about the commission of the Serbian Parliament. It is not even the ruling coalition's commission, and especially not the party's commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3376	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In order to clarify the public and MPs, the President of the National Assembly sent a letter to all authorised committee members with a request to appoint one representative. Authorised proposings have submitted their proposals and the composition of the commission is now such. Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3377	Thank you. Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I really thank you for the answer you gave on behalf of the National Assembly. Also mentioned is the SNS and that suggestion that comes I believe at a time when the selection procedure for the commission is over. That's the kind of suggestion she's late for. What this assembly majority defines is that on topics that we share, which is definitely the reform of our society, the better life of Serbian citizens, better representation of the National Assembly in international institutions. I'm bothered by the constant input of indemnity, the lack of dialogue, the taking of functions, the taking of over of some chairs, which is really not in our programme or in our definition. The Serbian Progressive Party is on the initiative of the SNS, i.e. a permanent parliamentary delegation to the OSCE consisting of four members and four deputy members, based on mathematics, and this mathematics is won by the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all four members and deputies of the members are members of the ruling part of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Two members of the Assembly delegation are from the SNS. The SNS has been defined and I am pleased to say so and to announce that we will give up one member of the OSCE delegation and offer one seat and one member to the opposition parties on an agreement and on a proposal on who it will be. It's an idea that's not from today and it's not from now on. It's an idea for several days, a few weeks because we want to be in both international institutions and in everything that will contribute to the better positioning of our country in international institutions. I think it is necessary for this to be a common topic for all MPs and all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the SNS proves on countless occasions that we really don't care about the form, that we don't care about the chair but about much better functioning and the National Assembly and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3378	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Ljiljana Kosorić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3379	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, it is my special honor to speak in this high house as a MP in front of the SP-DHSS parliamentary group on the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 "Wife, Peace and Security in the Republic of Serbia", as well as on the monitoring of the implementation of the National Action Plan of this same resolution. Today, when key international organisations to maintain peace and security, the UN, NATO Pact, but also the EU, attach great importance to the role of women in peacekeeping missions, operations, and the Republic of Serbia as a potential member of the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3380	MPs, I'll allow you to speak, but it's on the agenda to determine the composition of a permanent delegation. I'll let you speak, it's no problem, just so you know, there's no confusion with the other MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3381	Yeah, we'll vote for composition...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3382	It's not a controversial vote, I'm just saying that the agenda point... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3383	Not only is it important to mention the resolution when the committee to follow up on the implementation of the Action Plan is the essence of this story is that, in the very follow-up of the Action Plan adopted in 2010, and we know that the Security Council Resolution 2000 was adopted, one of the essential characteristics consisting of 18 points of the agenda is that implementation into four points concerning women's safety, notably women's participation in all levels of government and in equality with men, gender perspective, protection in conflicts and in peace and implementation of the study by the Secretary-General of the Security Council to be offered. In all this story, one of the important things is that at the level of our Republic we have to monitor all these events that are happening in our environment, because the very making of the study involves more services and ministries in it. One of the basic things is the benefit that we get from all of this, the creation of institutional preconditions, the inclusion of gender equality mechanisms, the involvement of civil society organisations in public debate on defence and security issues, women in peace talks, reintegration and rehabilitation programmes for men and women who participated in armed conflicts, disarmament, the development of a system for the protection of victims of violence, the strategy for poverty reduction, the National Security Strategy for the Elimination of all forms of violence against women, the Strategy for Combating Human trafficking, free legal assistance, which is the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, objective public information on the crimes of 1990s and education. In the end, let me just say that our parliamentary club will vote for the Commission, a permanent monitoring staff of the Commission. The only thing I see as controversial here is this woman's theme, and it seems that the impatience of fellow MPs is at its peak, so we can't keep track. That's why I'm gonna cut it short, but I think there's a lot more that we need to bring and talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-19-0.u3384	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I am concluding a unique search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set out on 19 June 2014 starting at 13.30 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. We can determine the quorum. Dear People's MPs, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points of this session, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 142 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since we first need to decide on the proposals for a law on the validation of international agreements (point. 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Rehabilitation and Road Safety" in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Loan Agreement (the Road Rehabilitation Project and improving traffic security) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Road Rehabilitation Project and the Promotion of Transport Safety) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – there is no one, the abstentioned – who has not voted seven of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Republic Commission on the protection of rights in public procurement procedures from 1 April to 30 June 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 16 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted, not two, of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Republic Commission on the protection of rights in public procurement procedures from 1 July to 31 December 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 16 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted, not two, of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 6 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, among the 170 MPs present, voted for – 169. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the examination of the 2013 report on the operation of the Central Register, Deposits and Clearance of Securities, with the Financial Report of the Central Register for 2013 and the report by the Independent Auditor IEF DOO Belgrade, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on 6 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one, with abstention – has voted six, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions on the election of members and deputies of members of the body and body, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been submitted to those acts, as referred to in Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting on the vote The motion for a decision to determine the composition of the Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for the implementation of UN-woman Security Council Resolution 1325, peace and security in the Republic of Serbia, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 13 of the 171 people present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group on 4 June 2014, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – there is no one with abstention – there is no vote – 11 of the total attendance of the 17-nation MP. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group on 5 June 2014, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 10 of the 170 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on June 18, 2014, at 10 o'clock and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 146 of the total of 154 Members present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank the MPs for their work.
