ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 160 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 153 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic and Susana Spasojevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the principle of the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, in addition to the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, I have called on the sittings to attend and Dragan Stevanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Business and Misela Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Industry. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, Saturday, past the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 16, 23 and 24 April 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. I put to the vote the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 16, 23 and 24 April 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, no one, with abstentions, voted 26 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 16, 23 and 24 April 2014. With the Assembly of this session delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session is contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, a proposal for a merger of the debate and a proposal to conduct a search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled examination of the draft law. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 28 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 May 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the National Minority Councils, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 May 2014, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 27 of the total of 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 v – six abstentions – there is no vote, 24 of the total attendance of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – six abstentions – there is no vote, not 25 of the total attendance of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, against – three abstentions – there is no, 25 of the 201 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on defence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 26 of the 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft dispute settlement law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 26 of the total presence of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, no one, with abstentions, voted 25 of the 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 24 of the total attendance of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendment Act and the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 26 of the 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputy members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 24 of the total attendance of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of the 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014 (Interparliamentary Union). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014 (The Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Decision appointing the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 May 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 173, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 of the 202 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I remind you that the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is in agreement with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 26 April 2014, submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was sent to you. I also remind you that the Serbian Progressive Party Group is in agreement with Article 45. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, May 8th. in the year, she submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was delivered to you. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure, on the termination of office and the selection of a new member or alternate member of the Board, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, which means that these proposals by force of the Rules of Procedure are included in the agenda of this sitting. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: the draft law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the draft law on enforcement of extra-conductive sanctions and measures and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the Government of the Government on 8 May 2014; the joint principled review on: the draft law on law on defence, the draft law on the settlement of disputes, the draft law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments and amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law of the Republic of Serbia, the draft law on amendments to the law on enforcement and security, the draft law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law of the law of the law of law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the European Parliament's, the draft decision on amendments to the draft law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments to the law on amendments to the members's and amendments to the members's law on amendments to the members's and amendments to the articles, the articles to the articles of the articles to the articles, the articles to the articles to the articles adopted by the articles to the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles adopted by the articles to the articles of the articles, the articles adopted by the articles to the articles to the articles of the articles adopted by the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles, the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles of the articles Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, no one, with abstentions, voted 26 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the examination be carried out in particular on the draft Law amending the Law on Privatisation be carried out immediately after the principled review of the bill was completed. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, no one, with abstentions, voted 26 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, the motion to merge the debate and the proposal to conduct the search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled review of the draft law, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 202 MPs for – 175. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatisation, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by MP Zoran Babic; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which was filed by the Government;5. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of non-conductive sanctions and measures submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was filed by the Government; 7. A draft law on defence, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, submitted by the Government; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Extraparnical Procedure, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law amending the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Road Safety Act, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party; 14. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly Committee, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group; 15. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 16. Proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 17. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 18. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly; 19. A proposal for a decision to appoint the heads of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the National Assembly president. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Privatization You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation. Does the Proposer's representative, Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u801	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to brief you on the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, which the Government has submitted, to point out to you the reasons why it is necessary to adopt it in an urgent manner and to provide an explanation of the solutions contained in this bill. By way of derogation from Article 20z, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Privatisation Act is prescribed that from the date of the restructuring decision to the date of the decision to end the restructuring, and no later than 30 June 2014, the privatisation entity, or its assets, may be subject to forced enforcement, or any measure of enforcement to settle the claim. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia of 14 November 2013 found that the said provision of the Privatisation Act was inconsistencies with the Constitution, with regard to the fact that the holders of the claim against the privatisation entities in the restructuring had been limited to the right to property, and that restructuring from the limited duration measure had become a long-term measure which did not lead to privatisation on the one hand, nor allowed the liquidation of entities in restructuring on the other hand, which, in the longer term, was impossible to settle their claims. The Constitutional Court shall, in accordance with Article 58. The Constitutional Court Act has suspended the publication of its decision establishing the unconstitutional nature of Article 20z of Law 1. The Privatisation Act in six months from the date of its adoption, which means that on 14 May 2014, when the Constitutional Court decision is made public, the provisions of the Privatisation Act will cease to apply. In view of the fact that there are exactly 164 companies still in the restructuring process, there is a real risk that due to the publication of the Constitutional Court decision, the continuation of the suspended payment procedures, the full loss of the purpose of the company restructuring process and the significant reduction of the value of their assets, thus reducing the number of creditors and the amount of claims that can be charged from the firm in the restructuring process. In addition, for the reasons of the lack of a pooled record of the size of the company's restructuring debts, according to which creditors, as well as those who have already been charged through the mandatory collection procedure, are at risk that, following the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision, certain trustees shall collect their claim in full or more than the amount charged, and that the other creditors of the same firm remain unsettled in the restructuring process, leading to an unequal situation. In that case, there is a danger that those creditors who do not settle in the mandatory collection process are suing the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, with a reason that the Republic of Serbia did not ensure an equal settlement of all creditors in the restructuring process and that, on the basis of that argument, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that such a provision was allowed, and obliges the Republic of Serbia to pay the damages. In view of the need to avoid the adverse consequences resulting from the publication of the Constitutional Court decision, the Government proposed amendments to the Law on Privatisation, which should be adopted in the National Assembly and to enter into force before 14 May 2014 when the Constitutional Court's decision is announced. Article 1 The draft law amends Article 20z of the Privatisation Act by retaining only two positions not disputed from the position of the constitutionality from a valid member of the law. By decision of the Constitutional Court, the disputed position of Article 1 of the 20g of the Privatisation Act and the other views of this member who are in a relationship with him cease to be in force by the entry into force of the draft law, which goes to the meeting of the Constitutional Court's decision. On the other hand, Article 2. The draft law, which constitutes a transitional provision, shall ensure equal treatment of all creditors by fixing the 30-day period from the date of entry into force of the proposal for a law on the delivery of claims submitted by the restructure companies to the Privatisation Agency, which shall be obliged to record all requests and deliver to the applicants all requests for settlement of the claim, after which the enforcement procedures may be continued after 30 days, if the creditors have an interest in such a way as to settle the claim. The proposed legal solution creates the possibility that those jobs from restructure companies that have a market perspective can be preserved in the legal time-limits through the realisation of strategic partnerships or privatisation with already interested investors. The estimated number of these companies is that there are interested investors who would continue production, and in the event that the proposed legislative intervention is not adopted, there would no longer be the interest of investors to invest in the already existing production. I also point out that the solutions set out in the Bills refer to a small number of companies, a total of 164 of them compared to the total number of enterprises already privatised or will be privatised to more than 3,500, and that it is precisely strategically significant enterprises for the region, which also includes companies with a large number of employees. It is important to highlight the fact that the bill provides for constitutionality, legal certainty, as well as the completion of the process of restructuring companies in privatisation. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the draft law amending the Privatisation Act will be adopted in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u802	I thank the minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u803	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the JS MP Group will support this Bill amending the Law on Privatisation for the simple reason that we must enable all enterprises in the restructuring process, and as Mr. Minister said, there are 164 of them and are in great difficulty in resuscitating the consequences of the earlier poorer business in these companies and to enable employees in these enterprises to receive income in the coming period, no matter how big they are, because of the profits they make in these companies, and according to the data we have received from about 53,000 employees working in these companies and from these earning their families. Normally, it should not be expected that only this extended deadline to say and to use this term to support these companies to find, in the next period, or with the help of the state and other entities, interested customers or strategic partners who could restore their endangered production, their endangered business and, as we say in Pomoravalje, to stand on healthy legs and can from their regular business reconcile all those obligations they have to the state and according to the creditors, and to all other suppliers that I am also sure and it is not only that I am sure, but it is a fact that they have an obligation. But what the JS parliamentary group wants to point out is the minister who explained the law here in front of the government, and also to the government, is that the government has to treat these companies in a different way in the restructuring process. I'll only give you one example, because among these 164 companies is the Jagodina cable factory. Since it too has no positive business in restructuring and there is no possibility of equal participation in tenders which are being explored for the purchase of cables, because it does not meet certain conditions in this tender which are largely won by some other, mostly foreign participants in the tender. Then even though these cables can only be produced by the cable factory, they buy 20, 30, or 40% cheaper from the cable factory, and that way they download, to say profit, not to say that they're taking off their kamak, or earning from their participation and getting jobs in the tender. Therefore, the state would have to find a solution in some way to meet the quality and quantity of its products in restructuring in these tenders, to allow them to have some advantage over some other participants in the tender, regardless of whether they fulfil the basic condition, which is that in the last two or three years, they have ended up positive and all that. If they are already in restructuring their business has not been positive for the past few years and they cannot meet the basic condition of participation in the tender to get a job, and since the job gets some other firm, mostly a stranger, it takes our companies as subcontractors and simply our employees work for some others. I think that through the application and through the delayed period of application of this law, we should find a favourable solution and it must primarily be sought by the Ministry of Economy, along with all other ministries, so that both companies can find a way to do business in this extended period. All these deadlines are good to give air that these companies can breathe, to try to improve with the help of the government and all other institutions their business, but without some measures that will go directly to the benefit of these companies will hardly be able to do so alone, relying on their own strength to overcome the difficulties they have been in for years. By delaying the possibility of forced collection of claims from those creditors who have claims against these firms in restructuring is one good method and way, but without other additional regulations, the method, will not be able to help these companies overcome the difficulties themselves. I'm afraid these 53,000 workers will be in difficulty again and will have to address the government and the competent departments of assistance to pay salaries to employees in those companies that are located, as I said, in restructuring. To avoid debt, since it is clear that the government's intention is to provide full support and assistance to all these enterprises that are in restructuring, but will also help all workers who earn profits in these businesses to feed their families. I repeat once again that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will give full support and vote in favour of the Privatisation Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u804	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as soon as the law governing the issue through the fate of 10,000 workers and which regulates the fate of over a hundred companies in the vast majority of industrial production and work in the real sector, that is also the reason that representatives of the SDP speak about it, in the interests of employees, in the interest of what is the concept of our party's policy, which is the concept of non-reindustrisation, but the concept of industrialisation and a full support to an arbitrary and real sector in our country. I will also refer to the words of the president of our party who says that what is most important to change in Serbia, which is the official spirit and official character that we have in our country for 20 years in our work, access to work, and that we need to define and accelerate it within what is called the entrepreneurial spirit and entrepreneurial character, but in those sectors that can create additional value, which are plants, factories that used to work well, and which can do so in the future. What we consider to be a major aspect and a major part of what needs to be accelerated in this domain is the professionalisation of management and better control of government and government institutions in the area of the work of these companies. In these five or six months, the additional companies that have been restructured are considered to be one over the necessary measure, and I will also look back at the prime minister's exposés who simply said one real sentence, which is that these companies are currently in fact bleeding, that the state must interfere, that it must help them, and that many of these companies are in the process of negotiations and agreements with potential strategic partners when it comes to taking over. We as SDP, but as well as the ruling coalition, want, as we have Zorka, Henkel, Merima, Beneton, we don't want to break jobs, we want the best strategic partners, and that means a new investment law which, hopefully, will come at a meeting debate at the end of this month or at the beginning of next month. I'm talking about wanting to attract investors from Forbes's list, 500 of the most successful global companies. Of course, in order to develop the economy and in order to achieve the economic reforms that we are dynamically seeking to implement and end the job, when it comes to enterprises that are in restructuring and, of course, for our party, as a party of SDP, it means that we want to worry about what will happen to those people who are jobless and whose businesses cannot be sustainable after 1 January 2015. That's why we'll be constructive and operational, modeling developed countries, modeling Austria, Germany. We will propose a labour foundation law that will allow both the government and those who deal with these problems in the next few months, which is the centre of this is the Ministry of Agriculture, that through the requalification programme, retraining, defining the needs of the economy, because today we have a non-sensence that large multinational companies operating in the Republic of Serbia cannot reach quality industrial workers. Of course, we systematically associate it by having surpluses in the public sector. The prime minister and finance minister themselves said that 800,000 people are employed in the public sector, and you don't have to be economical to realize that this number is unsustainable, but with these programmes, along with working foundations that have succeeded in Austria, Germany, in countries that have successfully carried out the transition, such as Poland, such as Slovakia. Yesterday we had a visit to the President of the Polish Senate, also received by the President of the National Assembly, the sixth economy in Europe, the 20th economy in the world. Despite the crisis, economic growth last year was 3%. The banking system is in extreme condition, because they were not engaged in speculative operations, because they kept a traditional model of the banking system, but they attracted, made an ambience, a lot of foreign investment from Italy, Germany, even the Russian Federation, the United States. These are some examples, good examples that Serbia in some domain should follow, ultimately, to take advantage of, that is, the best international position in the past 24 years, when our country is in very good relations with EU countries, and this visit yesterday clearly says, the president of the Senate of the country which has over 40 million inhabitants, and this represents a kind of reward and recognition in Serbia of what it has done to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous year and a half, but also excellent relations with the United States and the Russian Federation. We should take advantage of that, exclusively in this domain of our economic development and in attracting foreign investment. To be as concrete as possible, I'm going to give you an example of a restructuring company. Zupa from Kruševac, 30 salaries until September last year, the workers did not receive. Since September, when the new management was set up, when the then Mayor Kruševac Bratislav Gasic was involved, when all the forces were involved, when it came to local self-government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, being involved in solving these problems, setting up professional management, we have the situation to pay off regularly from September of the month, to show up a strategic partner "Nutrichen" from England who is already getting raw materials and in line with the business co-operation contract working with this company and of course it takes three, four or five months to work, to find new markets and what is the biggest goal, to employ additional people and to get a relevant, quality and respectable company that plans to stay in Serbia and work and to employ the level of competitiveness of its rating. What the SDPS wants to propose to the government itself, the ministries, those who will decide on fate, the results of these enterprises in restructuring, is the maximum professionalisation of management, compliance and delegation of management in accordance with the Law on Public Enterprises, which implies the choice of management and has in public competitions. We even advocated when this law was passed at the end of 2012 to enable public competition, that we could also bring foreigners to manage such businesses, open one market and see who is best, who is most capable, who is able to raise and prepare for public private partnerships, strategic partnerships, managerial contracts, anything. The essence of all this is the survival of jobs and potential, new markets for the provision of new jobs in that domain. Of course these management teams have to have business plans and business plans and the government and the agriculture ministry will now, after 20 years, establish one quality, continuous control over the work of these companies and be on a market basis. What it says in the business plan, which is defined by strategic objectives, must be met for every company. The prime minister said, if it is not fulfilled, let control be on a quarterly, six-month level and let these people change. What is the main job of the government and the ministry is to delegate to the administrations of these companies, the most qualified and most capable people so that these companies can operate in some future period at some market level. I mentioned a model of working foundations. We will advocate this, and we will advocate the concept of solving the company's restructuring problem on the principle of business resolution, a concept that involves working with these companies in line with their specificities and situation. That's already given some results. The example of "Ikarbus" and its partnership with Mercedes, an example of "FAP", an example of "Zupe" from Kruševec, which I have just mentioned, tells us enough about that we have to form even inter-resor commissions that will deal with these issues and try to maintain in the best possible way what our country will do in the coming long-term strategic power to maintain, which is the concept of industrialising the country and relying on those resources that we have previously, which we have today and then what is most important and most needed as the Social Democratic Party, when we make that cake, when we come to the gross domestic product of 50, 60, 70 billion, when we increase our exports, reduce our trade deficit, then we can share, then we can implement one quality social policy, social protection, to worry about vulnerable groups and marginal social groups. Of course, at the end of the day, to say that this whole process is not just about the functioning of the government and it is not just about the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministries. This process is strategically important for the state. This process involves one broad social consensus and for us as Social Democrats simply one unquestioned category, social dialogue with trade unions, inclusion of all representatives of employees in the process, because no experience of countries that successfully implemented the transition. They all had companies like this that we are talking about today, and Hungary, and Poland, and Slovakia, and the Czech Republic, but what was the starting point, it was a social pact, it was a deal between the state, between the employees, because, of course, we will strongly advocate that the burden, that what will be the negative consequences of the enterprises, which will not survive the market, do not bear the most vulnerable, do not bear the workers, but on the contrary, that those who are the richest and that the burden is evenly distributed. Of course, our policy in this domain will be clear and we will certainly be the factor that will promote social dialogue, advocate co-operation with trade unions, with employers, with the state to make this pact and simply move on to development and into these dynamic reforms that are defined in the Prime Minister's exhibition itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u806	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u807	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today since the first privatisation in Serbia, which began in 1989, has been a full 25 years. All those companies that built our country to this day are either sold or their sale is just about to take place. Now, as much as our economy has lost all this time, it's lost, of course, a lot and they can witness absolutely all the statistics of the National Employment Service. About how much our industry has lost, and yet it has lost a lot, I will remind this place that it was a strong industry, the fact that in fact today, the largest Serbian producers of that company that have built entirely new factories, and all the factories that we have built, which this state built, we must mention as one devastating fact. It was we who destroyed all those companies. During all this time, the whole process took place through one single law, and this is the Law on Privatisation, on whose amendments today in principle we are discussing. After all of these not only ten-year-olds, but also a larger period of time, I mean, lost economic battles, of course, in the history of Serbia should never be a general after already lost battles, so to say that it was the very model of privatisation, or the law on privatisation that was being applied over the past period that was bad. In fact, he was very bad, and today he doesn't need to be smart, so let's say that today's bill of law, along with all the respect and changes that are of course necessary, is said of the unconstitutional provision of 20 g, continues to be bad. It is bad for one reason – because it does not establish clear criteria, because it does not establish guarantees, because it does not give all interested persons control, and everyone should, of course, have control over the implementation of privatisation. When you look at all the privatisations in our country, you see two key mistakes that seem to me, as the mantra has been repeated for 14 years. First of all, it is either the buyer who, by the way, is completely squandering the company, and the second mistake that is often repeated is that the country that eats up a well-intentioned investor. These two cardinal errors have been repeated for 14 years. Very rare are those third situations, which I also have to mention in this place, which is that the customer continues with its successful business. The question is, what can we do? Of course, I'm not going to say that this burden falls only to the government or just to the rest of the departments as authorized, but to talk about society, so I'm asking what we can do here. Of course, you don't need any later brains, so say - what's squandered can never be returned or - from the aquarium you might be able to make a fish stew, but you can never make a fish stew, because when the fish is cooked, then the soup is finished. Today, all we can do is make sure that the future privatisations, the few remaining firms, are as successful as possible. That's where one logical question is asked, and that's how is it possible to achieve it? First, it takes two steps. The first step is for the state to be the one to be guaranteed privatisation. I don't think there should be any controversy about it, not even in professional circles. If it is the state that guarantees the right to live by the Constitution, which guarantees the right to property for all citizens before then it must also guarantee the right to property to the purchaser of a state-owned company. He who is a customer of such a company must know very clearly what he gets for his money and must absolutely be protected and must know that no one will knock on his company's door and tell him – I'm sorry, but you owe me something from 10 or 15 years ago. In order to increase the price of privatised companies, the credibility of the state must be increased. If the state doesn't have credibility, then there's no good price. It's a very simple fact. The Republic of Serbia has seemed to me, for the last ten and more years, that credibility has gambled because it claimed that one type of enterprise actually has an economic legal situation, and after privatisation it has always proved that the situation has been significantly worse and significantly more unfavourable for investors. In criminal law, not exactly showing facts is something that is considered a criminal offense, and for fraud and for fraud, a prison sentence is also intended. It seems to me that no state official in the past two and a half decades of privatisation has ended up in prison, and for one simple reason – because he lied to an investor during privatisation. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment that will later be discussed in detail and explained. The state of Serbia guarantees the data itself and the rules itself and presented to the investor. In a situation like this, one can set an example. Imagine, for example, if you wanted to buy an apartment, to go to the catastrus to see if there's a burden on the apartment, for example, a mortgage, you see that it's not, then buy that same apartment because there's no such thing as a burden, but in a few years someone comes in and says, "I'm sorry, that's my apartment, you ask how," he says -- like that, I wrote the mortgage 10 years ago, and you lose an apartment that you, for example, paid honestly. That's how they went by, I think, a lot of company buyers in our country. That is why the State, by means of the Law of State and Catastro, guaranteed that the data in the cataster were correct and if someone suffered damage because he had just relied on the data from the cataster, it is the state that is obliged to compensate him for the same damage. As a result of the legal provision, apropo of this example, were that all the registered apartments were more expensive than unlisted apartments, and the one who bought the registered apartment of course had more legal certainty and a clean situation. Therefore, it must also be the state that has to guarantee investors because it is the state that is building its own credibility. On the other hand, if the state does not guarantee investors that state data is correct, it is a clear recognition that our economy in some foreseeable future cannot be brighter. Of course, Serbia said something like that and deceived me, I think, investors a few decades back. It is a very long period of time and every investor, of course, did not want to buy businesses in our country under such conditions and in such an economic situation. I think we should pass one maybe and a whole new law that will guarantee every potential investor in the country of Serbia the property on the day of the privatization, because that is the only way we can raise already broken credibility, and just by raising such a collapsed credibility, I think we can also raise the prices of the companies themselves. The second thing that needs to be done next to this first one, which I explained, is an increase in control of the subject's privatisation. It has been proven, of course, that the state, not only think about Serbia and our country, but no country in the world can be the one to control the simultaneous implementation of several hundred privatisations, because it's simply impossible to do so. To control ourselves, the state would have to have many, not to say thousands of controllers who would do it, and with something like that, they would have to be motivated to work without being corrupt. I think we're talking about two things that are almost, at least at this point, impossible. What's possible is involving as many interested people as possible in that control. If you ask me who all these people are, it's all those people who are in any way connected to the subject of privatisation, either by having a claim against him, whether they're working in it, whether they're interested in continuing to deal with them. It seems to me that if we turn these people on, they can accomplish and they can enable one of the best controls, because their interest is an interest in the company doing business as successfully as possible. This inclusion can be done by giving them the right to control companies through the Privatisation Act. The next question is, how do we do that? Here, in a similar way that has already been done and in which it has already been implemented in the Banks Act, in the part relating to the reorganisation, because, of course, the one to whom the company owes millions should have the legal means, of course, to activate the instruments in front of the Privatisation Agency, and to re-examine the business of that privatised company. When you look at the whole thing closely, then you notice that we lacked good laws for successful privatisation, that we lacked well-incorporated legal provisions. I think it's about time we turned our backs on that tradition in terms of -- the state will control everything, and the state will be the one that punishes everything, because absolutely no country in the world can control everything and that will punish everything, for the simple reason, because then every citizen of any country in the world would come for three such controllers. I think it's a wrong and proven unsuccessful concept, and the fact that a failed concept is proven, that we're all witnesses here, Serbia, of course, market economy today. Control and punishment, the fact is, should be improved and this is something that needs to be put into the hands of the private sector by primarily involving those most interested in making it as successful as possible. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the Proposer, that they think in some future about changing and other provisions of the Privatisation Act, because I personally think there is much to change here, and all in order to improve this legislative proposal and to consider adopting that model that I have proposed by amendment, and in this place in front of the DHSS for such amendments of the law I will vote on, above all I mean a provision of 20iž, which, by the Constitutional Court's decision, has been declared unconstitutional. In the end, I suggest you consider the amendment I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u808	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u809	Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the fact is that after 13 years and several legal deadlines, privatisation is not over. This is the sixth amendment to the Privatization Act. It was basic in 2001, and then we had a change of 2003, so 2005, 2007, 2010, 2012 and this sixth one today. That the law was full of failures and the fact that about 2300 companies were sold, that so far there have been broken privatisations of around 680, and since 2001, 800,000 workers have been out of work. The objective of amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which we are discussing today, is to regulate the issue of payment of debts that have enterprises in restructuring. What does that mean exactly? This means that the law stipulates that private creditors will be able to seek and receive money that companies in restructuring owe them, while the state and state-owned enterprises will continue to protect debt companies created before 2008. These debts will be paid out of the sale price after the companies are privatised, restructured or sold. It is only after the whole process of the bill is completed that the Privatisation Agency will inform the courts and other authorities about the payment of money from the price achieved. According to the proposal for a law on privatisation of all corporate creditors in restructuring and privatisation, a deadline of 30 days for reporting the claim, and within 90 days, as it stands in the explanation, the Agency should record all these claims and make up the debt settlement proposal. It is quite clear that this change was made primarily with the intention of preventing the symmetry of claims and the massive opening of bankruptcys over 164 enterprises in restructuring that could follow in a few days. I must say that the NS parliamentary group, when it comes to the bill, reacted with several amendments. I'll just mention it, and we'll talk more about it in particular, what happens to those companies that don't get to solve all their claims within 30 days. We propose this amendment and offer a solution to sanction a 30-day gap in the right to initiate any procedure, coercive enforcement, while only the claim remains undeniable. It is very likely that a 30-day deadline will be sufficient for all businesses to endure whatever is necessary to comply with the legal obligation, but we believe that the law must be precise. The question arises – what if some credentials happen, let companies not file reports within 30 days? That is why we have responded with this amendment, believing that the law must be fully accurate. Restructure companies have been legally protected from creditors for years. The provisions of the law in November last year were declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional and the decision should enter into force on 14 May this year. It is clear that the government did not react with this bill so that we would practically have this verse charge that would simply trigger the payment of debts measured by billions of euros and that would indeed cause a major market disturbance. The question of whether we could even make it financially. Only IMT, IMR "Gallenika", Jumko and other companies, out of 157, owe one and a half billion euros to the state, i.e. the Tax Administration and public enterprises for electricity, water and other utility. After the debate and adoption and this law here in parliament, the statements on it, I think it is very important to follow the classification of companies in three groups, as the new government, or prime minister in the exposé, has announced, and to those who can find a strategic partner, those who go bankrupt and those who will be liquidated. I must say that the previous legal solutions were prescribed that from a restructuring company, which has 157 and about 55,000 employees, not a single trustee, was he private or state-owned, could not be forced or otherwise charged his debts. All proceedings against these companies were automatically suspended. Such a law was intended to protect the mentioned companies and workers employed in them from destruction, and in fact it did great damage to the Serbian economy. Many small private companies had to be closed down because they failed to collect their claims. Of course, the damage was suffered by state giants, such as Elektroprivreda, Serbia's gas, and ultimately by all citizens, because the enterprises in the restructuring did not pay their tax liabilities to the budget. According to the World Bank, the country has suffered 750m euros in damage annually. Unlike state creditors, private citizens will be able to start charging all their claims within a relatively short period of time under the established dynamics of the amendment and addition of this law. On the other hand, creditors will now be able to proceed with judicial proceedings, which were interrupted when the current law came into force. Also, creditors will be able to launch new court proceedings that could not be conducted due to a legal ban, but only after deciding they are not satisfied with the payment solution proposed by the Privatisation Agency. So the intention and purpose of the proposal for this Privatisation Act is quite clear. I would like to inform you that in the day to vote, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u810	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u811	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, privatisation as a topic returns from year to year to agenda, as my colleague before me said, but I think the legal solutions that are ahead of us should finally be put to the point of the process. It lasts 22 years and has produced different results in different industries and in different parts of our country. Restructure, as a process, was designed in 2002, if memory serves me well, and it was used in some ways to simulate bankruptcy, i.e. protection from creditors until the company was restructured, as the name itself says, or some business units were sustainable in large systems and holding companies, and some did not. It is imagined that privatisation is carried out where possible and within a certain period. It has been 12 years since then, and this model serves everything, except for what it was meant to be. It serves that great losers, above all, protect themselves from any privatisation and at least serve those employed in these companies, i.e. there, as we have heard, are doing some 50,000 people and I think that they are least concerned with the structures that benefit from this status quo, which are co-operated with these companies, customers, suppliers or some party leadership who, even today, are run by these companies and are least guided by the people who are professional. The prime minister mentioned in his exposé that this is an urgent issue, given that 160 companies are in this regime. I agree that privatisation must end. I'm sorry the Minister of Economy isn't able to be here. I don't know why he's not here, since this is an extremely important question, and I think he should have been the one explaining this proposal, because we're going to have to hear from him whether these deadlines are real and whether it's possible to do all this in 90 days. That's the part of this bill where we express the greatest skepticism, since it's going to be hard to record all debts, or claims within 90 days, because you yourself said there's no central register of all that, so that's the part that might have to be analysed. As for privatisation, it serves either to accelerate economic growth or to safeguard social peace or to fill the budget. Unfortunately, in privatisation in Serbia, it was the price that was crucial, i.e. filling the budget was the first and, above all, the most important. Of course, after 2000, when pensions were due, when the state was almost in front of bankruptcy, it is understandable why this model was applied to earlier models when actions were shared with workers, but I think that much more money had to be invested in companies that were privatised than in the budget. What few people today mention, which is that the real privatisation happened in the '90s, when most of these companies were ruined during inflation and only some of them were able to work together with the social, or state sector and benefited from it enormously. When privatisation took place after 2000, it was mostly sold what could then be sold. If it were different, we wouldn't even be talking about this today. As for us from Vojvodina, the structure is applicable in the way that it was done in some other parts of our country and that they are, say, "29. November" in Subotica, "Petar Drapsin" in Novi Sad or "Matroz" and MITROS at my place in Srem, etc., could get the status that they received "Stava", Bor and some other companies. Thousands and thousands of people have lost their jobs, where in some other cities, just because someone has decided politically, there have been other solutions, that is, they exist today, they function, they are actively sought by strategic partners, and these workers receive salaries. I think the system by which some companies entered into restructuring, and some did not, is very questionable, because the criteria were not equal for everyone and mainly political decision was made on who would be in restructuring and who wouldn't. But what's done is done. Anyway, the legal proposal that's ahead of us, I don't think maybe it's complete. We will be restrained on this because we think that the Minister of Economy must be here today to talk about it, because the topic is extremely serious, but that this process should be armed and that we agree as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u812	Thank you. The word has Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u813	Madam President, honourable Mr. Minister, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia who are following our work today, of course, that this bill or better say certain amendments and additions to the already existing law came just as they had to come. There's nothing strange about it, there's nothing unusual, 164 companies, is it exactly 164, they're in this situation. Their management is in a narrowed room and one such decision, i.e. the bill, i.e. the amendment proposal and the supplement is necessary to enable them to work in a smooth manner. When I say -- smooth, it's a long way from uninterrupted work, to allow them as much as possible to try to get together and find adequate solutions in the next period. It's hard to find those solutions. I just heard, I don't mean to pollute, with all due respect, where privatisation was done with motives for preserving social peace, filling budgets, but these are economic issues. There's one manufacturing system or 164 such systems. Custom transformation here must primarily go towards the economic efficiency of these systems, raising profitability, and then in an indirect way these systems will solve what we call, possibly in social peace, if they are productive, if they are profitable, they will adequately fill the budget, and then we can also talk about that component that we see in the privatisation. Of course, to analyse today's privatisation process that lasts almost two decades is illusory. Model, I would like to agree with Honorable Professor Jovan Jankovic, it is simple. It was bought, dear friends, mostly by the company's assets. Those who know it very well know what it is. As a rule, the debts remained one way or another to the state. The state is going to put together an internship, the state is going to end up paying this or that, and the third component, that's that social programme that was successful somewhere, it's not and it's caused a lot of dissatisfaction somewhere. Of course, it's a predominant model, but he's behind us and he's not worth much talking about. I'd like to give a few suggestions, of course, to the well-intentioned. Each of these companies is a production-business system for itself. It also requires that attention be drawn when establishing a new government. Let's promote field work, let's get people from the government, from the ministries, into these companies together with the representatives of local self-government, to repress that cabinet mode, see if we have managers in those companies. When we talk about managers, I just heard – let's call the competitions foreign managers will come to us. Let's not be ridiculous. Who will come from abroad today to run a failed company in Serbia and we will give it 50,000 or 60,000. It's empty stories. We have to go to Krushevac, Kragujevac. I was leaving and I'm saying this from what people are telling me. Let's find the people who used to run these companies, find these engineers who still exist, find the masters who could run the grinder, the rodent, who managed to set them up, to hear what they say, what part of that company can do, who can't. Let's hear what the real and normal people who are interested say. That's some of mine, I'd say, well-intentioned suggestion that we try to save what can be saved. I don't have great illusions. Market competition is tough and more places for weak, ignorant and those who can't fight, but we owe these people we owe them to try to do this. Why do we owe them? Because they, Mr. Minister, will appear at the door of the local self-government counter and the Serbian budget and demand some kind of social giving. Let's try to make as few of them appear on those counters now, give them back their dignity, give them their faith back, say we can try to get something going with them. You used to do it, why don't we try today? We need a positive approach, positive energy. As for this proposal, change and change, I think they're concrete and clear, and my personal observation is that I don't think there's any shortage that Mr. Minister of Economy isn't here today. We're discussing a concept that's not purely economic. More formal-legal. This is completely satisfying. As far as the PUPS parliamentary group and I are concerned, we will vote personally on this proposal. I don't think anyone in Serbia is going to say -- no, and we're going to put these people in a position that they can't try to work anymore. This is one well-intentioned attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u814	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u815	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to express my dissatisfaction because we're working on Saturdays and because we've lost all week, and at the same time, the committees have been making appointments and spending money on MPs coming to the Assembly. I appeal that we have committees in the days when we have a plenary session because this would save practically the large resources spent in the situation we are in, and as you say and as we can see, we have the savings trend that is necessary. On the other hand, I join the dissatisfaction of those who felt that such an important law, which we expected would be reformish, and not only technically, would be the minister of business here because we should hear how he saw it, and not just an explanation of a legal-formal member that is necessary, but it is not enough for this law to be found in parliament today, or for this law to be supported, because privatisation in Serbia, as we have heard, has been going on for 25 years and it is necessary to finally end it, not only because of these enterprises that are in restructuring but also because of those companies that are looking for funds, and you will see that statistics is devastating because a large number of enterprises that have not had so long restructuring have been extinguished because they owe them precisely those companies that are in restructuring. To talk about the economy today and to be able to talk about privatisation, we need to see what economic environment the Serbian economy is doing today. I think that ambience is disastrous and it's devastating. A high level of public debt that has reached nearly 21 billion euros, record high, on the one hand, the drop in foreign reserves on the other hand, the decline in traffic in general. Total investments this year amount to only 92m euros. In the past and the previous year it was cumulatively billions, in 2012 and 2013, and in poor 2011, it was a billion and 800m euros. Today when we talk about privatisation, we count on foreign investment and those who would come to our country to buy something. The sale of large systems has been announced. These systems are "Telecom", "Dunav", "Lutria". If we want this to happen in an adequate way, we have to create an ambiance in which those who come will feel comfortable, which will have the benefits that are necessary. What's going on in Serbia today? It happens that we have an increase in unemployment, that for the first time we have more pensioners than workers and that Serbia is sinking into debt slavery that should be prevented urgently. Today's Privatisation Act had to take into account a much wider context and that much more space, not only for the companies sold, but also to see if we can use the sale of these companies to solve issues concerning pensioners, or the Pension Fund, to address issues concerning the Health Fund, whether part of that privatisation should go to local self-government only or should be separate and precisely for the Pension Fund, which is conditionally unreformed and which today represents early cancer and a great burden on the budget. Do you allow pensions to continue to be charged only from the budget, or from the separation of those who are employed? Today we have a situation where we have more people who are retired than those who work. The privatisation process itself in some segments was bad, but we must be aware that, on the other hand, one good part of the Serbian economy is precisely carried by those companies that privatised certain enterprises in Serbia and that there are many, many good examples that concern the privatisation itself which allows some economic development to exist today in Serbia. Had it not been for these foreign companies, unfortunately, it would have been hard for workers and those who have experience in running machines to contribute to Serbia's economic development in the 21st century and, above all, to our product not only on the domestic market but also on the foreign market. I stress that this is just one of the laws that is necessary for reforming our economy, one of the laws that should allow foreign investors to come. I note once again that in the first three months, according to government data, only 92m euros have been invested in Serbia. It is a catastrophic data that will only appear in the next year as a result. It's something that extremely endangers the economy, not just at a given moment, but in the future. At the same time, we have announcements of foreign investment, we have announcements of purchases of wagons abroad, we have announcements of bringing in Arab companies that should build apartments across Serbia at a price of 380 euros per square metre. I note that this is something that is possible if they get favourable, or more favourable conditions than domestic investors participating in the construction. If they have special conditions, I don't see why they would do this to me, because this situation will introduce restructuring and other companies that are doing something today, and it's very small, given that last year's economic activity in buildings is down 30% compared to the previous year. It's something that completely threatens the economic core of our country. If we don't move there, and the way it's proposed I think it's demagogue and populist, we're going to have a lot of problems, and I'm afraid these problems may not be seen today, but they reflect in a long series of years and will hardly be able to correct themselves, just like these problems relating to the small flow of foreign investment in Serbia over the past two years. We agree that the restructuring deadline should be extended. We cannot support this bill because it, not only is it not reformal, but it is practically only put into order somewhere compared to the decision of November of the Constitutional Court, but it is extremely small. I point out once again that the Minister of Economy had to make an effort, when he had already accepted such a difficult place, to look at this law, I suppose he had no chance, and to propose some innovations that were announced, given that we had heard a lot of big stories about many great achievements during the election campaign, and that today we were practically sitting on Saturday to change only one member of the law, and we could have done it two weeks ago because we knew it was coming into effect and it was not news. That's what everyone in Serbia who deals with the economy knew it would happen sooner or later. Thank you. This is the first call, and I'll get back to you when it's up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u816	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u817	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I believe that after our last meeting here when we heard the prime minister's exposés and chose the new government, they were eager to see the first moves of the government, the first laws to come into this assembly. First of all, I think that more than 50,000 workers working in 164 restructure companies, as we heard, were waiting for what would happen on May 14th. At the end of last week, the law came, i.e. the amendments to the Privatisation Bill, which practically concern only one member and which essentially extend the life of enterprises in restructuring for another five months. Our opinion is that it's not enough. We heard in the Prime Minister's exhibition the government's intention to solve these problems, some basic ideas, and we expected, on the day that the amendments to this law are on the agenda, that in parliament there will be not only a minister of economy, but also a prime minister, because this is an extremely important state issue, because it is about the lives of over 50,000 workers in these companies and beyond. Many of these companies are carriers of business life in the cities where they operate. I think our debate here is about this topic being much wider than that proposal we're going to formally adopt in the voting day. In practice, this law, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, deletes certain members of the applicable law and then introduces to the final provisions that one deadline of five months, in which the application should be entrusted to the Privatisation Agency, and then the Agency to write down all the debts, record all these requirements and establish a proposal for settlement and demand, and then to declare within 30 days whether or not they accept this proposal. We also heard from the minister that there is currently no central register on how many claims there are and who is looking for them. The question is, why is that? It was known that privatisation was to be completed by the end of June of this year. The question is why hasn't the Agency done this job in the previous period and whose responsibility is that? We can say that, here, Parliament is now in session on Saturday because this deadline for adoption is on May 14th, right here in front of us, and it's okay that we want to avoid legal uncertainty. But if there's an excuse for us politicians that we had elections at the beginning of this year, for the Agency and for its work there's no excuse, because the Agency has worked uninterruptedly all these months. What we expect is one bill of law and solutions that say how it will be resolved and what the fate of these companies is. I agree with colleagues who talked about the need to approach each company individually because there are different cases. Whether it is a grouping in three groups, as the prime minister said, or in some other way, but we disagree that today is practically only prolonging the resolution of this problem and that the uncertainty of workers working in these companies continues, to continue insecurity and in business entities working with them, to continue the agony of those creditors who have problems in their work, and in the end of the line, and to virtually reverse the Constitutional Court's decision, or to conclude that restructuring has been transformed into a continuous long-term measure. This does not interrupt, but rather extends, but this time in five months. Our concern, given this beginning, is that after those five months, a proposal will come back and whether some new deadlines will set again without solving problems. For this very reason, because today we do not have concrete proposals for the fate of these companies and for ending privatisation in Serbia, we will not support this law. We expect the prime minister, economy minister and other ministers in charge of Serbia's economy to be here in parliament very quickly. Not only do we expect this, but I believe that it is expected by citizens, because economic issues are the most important issues currently for the citizens of Serbia. In this debate, we want to participate and talk about what is good and what is bad is privatization. We heard something today. Somewhere we'll agree, and somewhere we won't agree, but I think what we need is not looking so much into the past as it has been, but how to end this process, how to put Serbia's economy on healthy feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u818	You have received the resignations of National MPs Dr Nebojša Stefanović, Aleksandra Vulin, Vanja Udovic, Jadranka Joksimović, Goran Knezevic, Radoir Nikolic, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, Aleksandra Antić, Ivica Dačić, Irena Vujović, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, in view of the examination of these resignations, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations took place from Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, so it suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandates of these National MPs. Also, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues found that the appearance of the death of MP Dr Jovan Krkobibic was the case set out in Article 88(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Selection of National MPs therefore proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. According to Article 88(1), point 1 is replaced by the following: 2nd and 8th and 3rd and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the mandate ceased, before the end of the time to which they were elected, to the National MPs Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Aleksandr Vulin, Vanji Udovic, Jadranka Joksimović, Goran Knezevic, Radomer Nikolic, Prof. Dr. Snezani Bogosavljević Boskovic, Aleksandra Antic, Ivica Dačić and Irena Vujović, on the day of their resignation, and to the National MP Dr Jovana Krkobic, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. The word is Dr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u819	Dear Presidents, Ministers, Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of their presentation, to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act for the reasons set out in this bill, in an explanation, and in particular in the additional explanations of Mr Minister. For all these reasons, we will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. In this regard, I would like to point out in front of the SPS parliamentary group a number of questions to be taken into account when this matter is concerned. First, we talked about privatisation so many times, about all its consequences, its failures, the causes of this catastrophic economic situation, that we won't talk about it anymore. This government and the previous one have come to grips with those that were against the law and we believe that this job will continue to be done, to correct what can be corrected. Someone rightly noted the sixth change in the Privatisation Act that was passed in 2001. When it comes to privatisation through restructuring, we must tell the Serbian citizens openly that the situation is not better either. It's taking a long time. There's a lot of big problems. The first wave of enterprises in restructuring came in 2002, the second wave in 2008. Many are still in that status. Whenever we talked about restructure companies, we kept warning that there were two problems, not one. One problem, let's say the main problem, which is a large number of companies, and now we've heard data 164, with a large number of workers, and we can't get the exact information, and we're going to take that as over 50,000 employees. On the other hand, the significant giants that were once involved in the development of certain regions in Serbia are on the list. Already everyone knows it's Icarbus, RTV Bor, Jagodina cable factory, Petrochemia, Župa, IMT, IMR, First Five-year-old, Magnochrom, Car factory Kraljevo, Jumko and I don't have many more. So, one big problem with these companies and from the point of view of the region, these regions were developmentists. And from the point of view of the success of the functioning of these companies, but also what we as a parliamentary group of SPS are interested in, and this is also from the point of view of the employees of these companies. We believe that this is not only an economic issue, that it is not just a matter of property, but a social policy issue. So that's one problem. Another problem when companies are in restructuring, which we have also pointed to, is that a large number of creditors cannot collect their claims from these companies. So, not only state creditors, the tax administration, the Development Fund, the PIO funds, and not only to list further, but also commercial creditors. Even when it comes to commercial credentials as a result of that, therefore, and the ability to collect its claims has been a lot of cases of having to close down their firms. The problem is much more complex, so we say it's not one, it's two problems. When it comes to this proposed change in this law, I think Mr. Minister has given a very brief and detailed explanation why change is being made and what is particularly important to us, on which I want to stay for a while, and that is what the goal is, what are the goals to which we want to reach. So, the change itself is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. Article 20z of the Privatisation Act was created in December 2007. I believe in the good intentions of the government at the time to keep these companies from being destroyed, but the measure that cannot be charged forcefully by these companies was not limited. The amendment of the Privatisation Act in December 2012 gave one restriction on the other species for restructuring to be completed by 30 June 2014. Here's the decision of the Constitutional Court that says that the provision is unconstitutional. We saw from the minister's argument that those two statutes of the law that speak of state-owned creditors remain, because they were not questioned, but they will settle down from the mass of the sale of these companies. But what I'm saying is, the public knows it's a big asset, and no one's still dealing with the exact number. I see that about a billion and a half euros are mentioned when it comes to it. So the problem with these companies is not only that the state subsidises these companies, mainly for wages, there was never enough resources to start new production wherever it can be started, but also when it is added that they do not pay taxes and contributions, electricity, water, gas etc. It's huge losses. Therefore, the formulation remains that state confidence continues to abstain from forced collection by the restructuring company. The other thing the government has proposed here, and that's what one procedure has established that trusts to reach the collection of their funds. We need to be realistic and say, this is five months off. Yes, it is. Why? Because there are two important principles in front of the government, two important moments. One is to successfully restructure the company, and the other is to enable creditors to collect their claims. There's been an attempt to find some balance here, some balance on how to do it, plus all those explanations that the minister was talking about, that I'm not talking about, which means if there wasn't a change of law. I want to invite my government to use these five months in more ways. First through this formulation, the Agency should record claims within 90 days, determine altitude and prepare a settlement proposal. Let's do it. We keep hearing that we don't know what the claims are. So, to record them, to determine who they are and who they are and what the claims are. I particularly draw attention, as it is a great responsibility at the Privatisation Agency to do so in a quality and efficient way. The examples we had in various privatisations led to citizens not having much confidence in that part. Secondly, I want to draw attention to the government to take advantage of this five-month period to really do everything possible to realize those three strategic goals that the prime minister spoke of when presenting the government's programme now. So this is what I'm saying for the following reasons. We have to admit that until now all governments have seen it as hot potatoes, which simply don't hang around much, to provide some money for wages and don't get into the essence of the problem, and all of them experience these businesses as big losers, big spenders, and little economists look at the opportunities of development in these companies, and there are those who can, who can get them to function. So, that's my suggestion, that the government use that period, to do everything in this period to enable the process to be successfully completed, to help those who can stand on their feet, to help them to find a strategic partner, to help them find a strategic partner, but also to all the issues about it, believing that something like that needs a lot of determination and courage, and I believe in the determination and courage of this government to solve these issues, here, I call on them to use that period to do everything to solve these issues in the best possible way, with, of course, our proposal, what we recognize, the MP group SPS, all of it in social dialogue. Without the social pact, without social dialogue, partners cannot be implemented. To be clear, Serbia is ahead of major reforms and they are necessary and there are no dilemmas, but reforms are not the goal, reforms are the means to reach the goal, to get Serbia on its feet, to economically strengthen, so that that cake that is made to be large, and then to share it in the best possible way, the most just way. Something like that can't work without all the partners' social dialogue. I believe in this government that has a clear policy and firmly defends it and certainly has the determination to implement this. So, in front of this government is another question with what I've suggested - what after these five months, that now he's thinking about what happens when the moon expires, and then three more, and one more, what happens next to these companies? I'll be back to square one. We will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act for these reasons given in the light of the law and the explanations provided by the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u820	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u821	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS Group will support the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation because this government is in a situation best described by an ancient prophet Ezekiel -- that someone ate sour grapes and now that this government is rotting its teeth. So, this bill is the only way to solve the ultimate problem of the enterprises in restructuring, but to solve the problem by finding 57,000 people on the street on 14 May 2014, but in this additional time of five months, it will require a solution, finally and definitely a solution, for the enterprises in restructuring. It would be good, above all, because of some opposition colleagues who criticise this bill, who criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who say it is not enough reformal, who say it has not done enough to finally complete the privatisation process in Serbia, that we also People's MPs, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are reminded of how it all started, that is to go back to the source of the problems that we all face today, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Economy. A major problem in Serbia began with a concept of privatisation that has turned out to be bad and has brought Serbia's economy into such a difficult situation as it is now in. When we talk about privatisation, I think you will agree that, Mr. Minister, and you, fellow MPs, are best spoken in the language of numbers, not in the language of phrases, not in the language of beautiful desires and not in the language of criticism of those who were in power until yesterday, who did nothing to improve the situation in the Serbian economy. So, in 2002, it was a year after the adoption of the Privatisation Act, it was sold, when I say, social capital was sold, it was the subject of transformation, 220 enterprises, in 2003 - 709 enterprises, in 2004 - 238 enterprises, in 2005 - 221 companies, in 2006 - 235 enterprises, in 2007 - 294 companies. Otherwise, the figures, Mr. Minister, are very indicative because some boast that honey and milk flowed during their government time. This is how honey and milk flowed – the sale of social capital was filled with budget. In the short term, it had an effect, but in the long run we were put into a situation that we had to make changes to the Privatisation Act today. So in 2007 - 294 companies, 2008 - 240 companies, 2009 - 76 companies, 2010 - 27 companies, 2011 - three companies, 2012 - three companies. In 2013, i.e. there was no privatisation in 2014. A total of 2,266 former social enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, which worked for 229,329, were sold from 2002 to 2012, for 10 years. The revenues generated from the net privatisation amounted to 177,773,911,659,00 dinars. Then what was the problem? It turns out that a large number of privatisations were bad, failed, i.e. that social capital buyers failed to meet some of their obligations under the capital sale contract, and in 2003 24 privatisations, 90 in 2004, 75 in 2005, 56 in 2006, 69 in 2008, 73 in 2009, 90 in 2010, 128 in 2011, 41 in 2012, 25 in 2013, 12 and in 2014. A total of 683 privatisation contracts were terminated. What's more interesting? Mr. Minister, this primarily refers to those who criticize you and who say – why did the Minister of Justice come on Saturday, May 10, to explain the changes to the Privatisation Act, when we political and economic geniuses were doing everything great and we didn't make any problems? Now you, Mr Selakovic, should be on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm surprised that Prime Minister Vukic did not, by yesterday, apologize to those who sat in power because in a year and a half you failed, unfortunately, to correct all the blames of Drina in Serbia that they have made since 2000 and since 2001, respectively. So who brought the largest number of enterprises into the restructuring process 10 years and over and in the meantime did nothing to solve the problem of these companies? Now they come to the National Assembly and ask you, Minister of Justice, who was first elected in 2012, and for the second time in 2014, what is it, Mr Selakovic, what have you done to solve the company's restructuring problem? Here, the numbers speak for themselves. In 2002, four companies were restructured, in 2003 21, 2004, 16 companies, in 2005, 14 companies, in 2006, seven, in 2007, two, eight, in 2009, 14 and now, please pay attention, in 2010, 82 companies were brought into the restructuring process, in 2011, mentioned by Mr Sutanovac as a year of major investment, and the investment consisted of one private company selling its capital to another private company, one was Serbian, the other was Belgian, and the state had no benefit. So, in this famous big investment year, according to DS, in 2011, it was put into the restructuring process of 28 companies, in 2012, 10 and, now be careful, in 2013 and in 2014 a total of four. So, in 2013, two companies, in 2014, two companies, a total of 217 companies. According to the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, 162 companies employ 57,205 people are currently in the restructuring process. If a number of 35,466 people is added to this number of 57 000, i.e. workers working in companies that are located in, let me say, a preparation procedure for privatisation, therefore, where the preparation for the privatisation of auction or tender procedures is under way and if we add to this number 7,469 people working in companies that are in the process of controlling purchase contracts, and the procedure for controlling purchase contracts is carried out by the Privatisation Agency, one frantic data is obtained, and this is that 100,140 people are working in all these companies. So that's the numbers. Now, SNS asks colleagues from the opposition – what is it that they have done that this Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Selakovic do not come into the situation that on 10 May 2014 together with us find a solution to an almost impossible legal and economic situation, which is that these 100,000 people are not on the street on 14 May? What threatens us, what threatens all these enterprises that are in restructuring, is that above them, on May 14th, the condition is that the economic umbrella and that all these companies are exposed to the mandatory collection process. That means that on the same day, all these companies will be blocked. This means that all these companies will stop working and that means that all these people, or workers who work in these companies, will stop receiving modest salaries anyway. What kind of companies are these? When it comes to bakers, crafts and trades, which our people would say - not by misery. It is companies that are of strategic interest to the state of Serbia. Now I ask you – what is an alternative to this bill, if you have in mind the fact that once large, unfortunately, in the meantime, damaged, robbed economic systems, such as Galenika, such as RTB "Bor" and like many others of these 162 or 164 enterprises in the restructuring process? So, what is an alternative to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has offered, and what is today widely criticised by colleagues, primarily from the DS and the New Democratic Party, and being thrown stone at the Government of the Republic of Serbia because, in their humble opinion, it has not done enough to solve the problem of all these companies? So, what's the alternative? The alternative is to find 100,000 people on the street on the same day, to stand up for economic life in Serbia on the same day. Just imagine, respected Serbian counterparts and citizens, what would be to stop production on May 14th, let's say, Galenika, which is also in the process of restructuring, the Galenika, which has been systematically robbed in the past period and which, despite the robbery, managed to preserve a large number of professional personnel and thanks to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Privatisation Agency, placed "Galenika" in the restructuring process at the end of last year in that factory, continues to produce drugs that are cheap, accessible to Serbian citizens, and which are necessary for, unfortunately, an increasing number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who suffer from malignant diseases, from cardiovascular diseases, etc. What's the alternative? The alternative, of course, exists, but the alternative is too expensive for Serbian citizens. The majority of Serbian citizens cannot afford the drugs of foreign pharmaceutical companies because they are much more expensive than the medicines produced by our Galenika. The essence of what the SNS is saying is that the solution offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the moment is only possible. There's no other solution. Of course, we would all be happy if we didn't have any enterprises in restructuring, that all privatisations in Serbia were carried out successfully. When I say successfully, it means that social capital buyers bought these companies to continue production, to expand it, to hire a new number of people, not to buy mere assets, to bring around five, six old machines and show it as an investment, and the largest number of people fired. For information from opposition counterparts who are so keenly criticising the RS government, who are criticising Aleksandar Vukic, who are criticising Minister Selakovic, who say we haven't done anything since 2012, that they expected after seven days of exposé of new Prime Minister Vukic to solve the problem of all 162 companies. Here, Mr. Minister, maybe this information will help you. So, since 2002, as I said, 2266 companies with a total of 229,329 workers have been privatised in Serbia, according to the privatisation agency. You know how many of those 2266 privatisations were successful? With the letter and number, 28 privatisations were successful. Since 2001, we have had 28, conditionally said, and very conditionally speaking, successful privatisations. When I say conditionally, I have to use that prefix conditionally, because in all these companies that are privatized, mostly through a public tender method, after privatisation, there are fewer workers, than he did before privatisation, but what is successful in these privatisations? It is a success that these companies are actually doing, which is a great success, given everything that has been happening to us since 2001 to 2012, it is a success that these workers receive some wages. Those salaries aren't big, but at least they're neat. Let me not now list all these 28 companies: "Impol Seval" Sevojno, "Health a.d. Leskovac", "South Banat d.o.o. Bela Church, the cement company "Kosjerić" Kosjerić, is the only company that works in this municipality, the cement company Novi Popovac, the Duvanska Industry Vranje, DIN tobacco factory Nis, the frozen food industry "Frikom a.d. Padinska Skela" Belgrade, "Merima a.d. Kruševac", "Gosa" equipment and machine Smederjevska Palanka etc. So, the geniuses who led Serbia since 2001, Mr. Minister, have privatised more than 2,000 companies, and have successfully privatised them that the Privatisation Agency, with the state of affairs of May 2014, delivered a report to the MPs, that of all these privatisations, there were only 28 of them. Now the question arises – who is responsible and who is responsible for the situation in which Serbia has found itself? Of course, it's not Alexander Vukic, not Tomislav Nikolic, nor Nikola Selakovic, nor is it SNS's fault. It is the fault of those who carried out the radical and upside-down privatisation procedures in Serbia from 2001 to 2012, who systematically destroyed, robbed, sold below each market price, who left the largest number of workers on the street. Now they ask the RS government why it has not solved the problem that has been a crowd since 2001 more quickly and efficiently in Serbia. It's simple, it can't go any faster. In this situation, legally observed, this is the only possible solution, to be in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision, because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are executive, final and general binding and SNS, as the ruling and largest party in Serbia, respects the Constitutional Court's decision. At the same time, the RS government and the SNS parliamentary group cannot remain deaf and blind to the fact that some life is taking place in Serbia, that there are some living people who need work, who need to get paid, that there are some enterprises that are of vital interest to the state of Serbia. In this condition, the RS government chose the ideal environment between legal form and social essence. So we respect the Constitutional Court's decision. It will enter into force on 14 May, and we today, on Monday, when we pass the law amending the Law on Privatisation, are going to meet and prevent the collapse of the Serbian economy that would have happened on 14 May if it hadn't been for this bill. That is why the SNS parliamentary group will support the amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u822	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u823	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have indeed tried very carefully to listen to the presentations of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups and to record, and then to respond to some criticisms that have been made on today's topic of the agenda – the amendment of the Privatisation Act. Unfortunately, there are no serious criticisms or arguments for serious criticisms of this draft law amending the Privatisation Act. The whole story has come down to a few criticisms. First review - why is the National Assembly meeting on Saturdays? I think that anyone watching television broadcasts and who is present here is visible one change, which is that, unlike the previous ones, calls on the National Assembly during a debate on some draft law room for sessions is almost full, and that's full Saturday, and I believe that's proof of a high level of seriousness both the MPs and the government's representatives show in their work. It doesn’t mind that the National Assembly, or session of the National Assembly, is held on Saturday, and I support the chairman of the National Assembly that scheduled the session for today. The second criticism, which was respected, is that this is about technical law, and for God's sake, we were expecting reform laws. This is about a situation which is a technical prerequisite for the adoption of reform laws. None of us, who are members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are thinking of retaining any status quo. Here, facing one necessary consequence of poor policymaking in a long number of years. Listening carefully to a colleague of Martinovic, of those 2266 companies, if I am not mistaken, over 1300 companies were privatized in the years 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. So more than half. One colleague said good law was lacking for good privatisation. I support that statement and I will only supplement it, but the honesty of those who carried out the privatisation was lacking and there was an effective and good system of privatisation control. If you've carefully tracked which companies were privatized successfully, I'd like someone to point out to me a country where the cement plants failed, unless they had complete dilettantes in their executive frame... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Pharmaceuticals. )......................................................................................................... or pharmaceutical companies or cigarette production companies, i.e. tobacco. I'll remind you of something someone will like, someone won't like it, but in a much better Privatisation Act, which had one big flaw, at the end of the 1990s, a company that was then privatized, many of them are still active today. Are you saying it's not like that? The great flaw in that law was the abandonment of the obligation to privatise it, and that is where we can agree. We heard the example that over 700 companies were privatised in one year, in 2003, which is fatal to many things for Serbia's modern history. The question has been asked whether the government will consider any more extensive, more detailed amendments to the Privatisation Act? He won't think about the change. The government plans to propose to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly to pass a whole new Law on Privatisation, as well as a new Law on Banking, a new Labour Act, as well as a new Law on Planning and Construction, as well as a new Law on Civil Servants and a whole set of new laws that you will receive during this summer, decide on them, consider them, and hopefully adopt them. Is it a major investment and investment venture in one year if you have the sale of a company, according to a respected colleague Martinovic, at the cost of nearly a billion, and to boast of it as a large foreign investment? Ask the company that entered the Serbian market -- how pleased is it with what she bought? How pleased is she with the functioning of what she bought, and is everything presented to this company to be sold? Someone said in their debate, I have to look back on it, I don't want it to be irresponsible, that the number of pensioners exceeded the number of employees. It's true. Is it possible to charge pensions only from the budget? Who started working in Serbia? Who started in debt to pay their pensions? Who started taking loans to pay someone a pension or a salary? I want to be completely honest and open to the citizens of Serbia. Someone said, maybe he said it on purpose, in these companies, it's almost 60 grand, 56 thousand workers. Do either of you believe 56,000 people work? How many of these companies and these workers are the ones who work fictitiously? How much is it? How many companies do you have that people run as employees without doing anything? Does anyone want to talk about it? Just because we're in an absolutely unrealistic situation, a life situation, we don't want to hide in front of it, we don't want to keep quiet, we don't want to talk about it being just a problem that someone else has made. We want a problem to solve. That problem has to be solved once. The tumor is at first benevolent. They had a chance to save someone else. Then he began to grow and became malignant. When a sick man goes to a doctor, they don't talk to him about makeup, they tell him about severe therapy that he has to be subjected to if he thinks he's getting better. There are a whole series of painful and difficult and measures and moves ahead of us, but these are not measures that lead to hopelessness, but rather something quite the opposite. These are the measures after which we must hope for something. Our poet says, "The resurrection is not without death." Or one of our contemporary writers - the densest is before dawn. When it seems to be the hardest thing to do, and you have to do it, know it'll come well after that. This government is the first government to put forward a system plan to solve extremely complex problems created by the carelessness of many governments, many governments, many regimes. Are these governments that were in power in the 1990s, are these governments that were in power of the two-thousands? Every once in a while, each in a certain way. Is it 2012 too? It was in 2012. Yeah, and in 2012, I don't have a problem saying that. Each government has been chosen with a certain capacity. And those who said we shouldn't have had the election this year, only now do we have to realize that and how we're supposed to have it. Because only this kind of government and only such an MP majority can carry out difficult, unpopular, painful, but most serious and necessary reforms. I wish someone in the past had used the support he had to do something. When we look at what we privatized, we first privatized what brought the state the highest income. What brought the state the highest income was first taken and privatised by the state. Then what did not bring anything, but it brought losses we left in the country's ban, and now we're going to worry about it and worry about it as much as we do since 2000 and everybody here. How do you care? By keeping people in the fiction that they are employed, by having absurdity in Serbia that a man is being led as an employee and receiving a salary and doing nothing. We can talk about why it happened. We can talk about the system's responsibility for that. We can talk about individual responsibility for that. It's true. They're doing good cementers. But the cementist was the one who did well in 2000, and then there was some kind of social stability factor in the city where she hired 3,200 people, and today she employs 230. Is that unsustainable? Yes, it is. I have to put together both nicely and usefully and in this story very usefully. Evidence that the reform system in Serbia has been absolutely wrong is a way of implementing privatisation and entering reforms. If someone wanted Serbia well not only with words, but also with their actions, he would have, say, in 2001, as there was an appeal for people from the then government, first implemented judicial reform, because that good judicial reform was done, you know when there would have been a single wrong or criminal privatisation? But it wasn't done at the time, it was already conducted and such privatisations, and then the moment it wasn't sanctioned someone said they weren't doing the dishes, they weren't doing well. Did you know that when you started privatizing? They lacked better laws. That's true. Our destiny is that in this particular area, if privatisation is at stake, we have witnessed a better law being replaced by a worse law. Much more honesty was lacking in the conduct of state authorities who were competent to conduct privatisations. We began to attract foreign investors actively at the moment when we saw that privatisation went in some completely different direction, and then we accidentally spent money several times on the same thing, and completely unsuccessfully. As one opposition colleague said, whose sentence I strongly agree with, that we should turn to the future and I respect that very much. We need to know what we inherited, we need to know what we come from, and we need to know what our problems are based on. Because, you know, the exclusive story of the future is exclusive, no matter what the cause of the present, it's like telling a child -- it's absolutely irrelevant who your parents are, who your grandparents are, who you are and who you are and what you're in the situation you're in. Well, it doesn't matter. We need to know the cause of the problem, but not to spin around, because the problems became in 2001 when the law was passed. If they didn't exist, the law wouldn't have been passed. Our biggest problem is law enforcement. We can bring to the National Assembly the best possible laws, but if we don't implement them in a good and valid way, then we won't be writing well. Good laws were passed here, sometimes better, sometimes worse, but these laws were implemented badly. The National Assembly was then also to control the implementation of these laws. The question is how long did she do it? This law is a technical prerequisite to enter into the adoption of reform, system-based laws without which improvements in the market, economic, investment environment in Serbia will not be. I thank you for the initial part of the debate, and I am prepared to discuss it really in an argument here and there.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u824	Thank you, Minister Selakovic. Now we're going to work on application for word. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u825	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Secretary-in-Office, today we are talking about a subject that we have spoken about many times, a topic which SPI has spoken about many times, and unfortunately the citizens of Serbia have time confirmed the correctness in fear, i.e. in everything we've said so far, and what's been going on in the last 14 to 15 years. I would just look back on a few things, since today, as Mr. Minister himself said, we are talking about technical changes, but technical changes that are a prerequisite for you to be able, as you yourself said, to pass reform and system laws. It's just that this is a topic that's so popular that it could be politically scored, so I'm going to make sure that in the time that I have, I'm just starting on facts, that's all. I'm talking about facts that, unfortunately, are devastating. The Serbian Renewal Movement has been saying years ago that not passing a law on the origin of property, the decentralisation law and the restitution law have greatly contributed to one bad and looting privatisation, which has completely disrupted the system and impoverished most of Serbia's citizens. The money from privatisation, which is one of the greatest absurdities, usually the first or second wars to come, was spent through the national investment plan and various ministries of development, which were actually party prey and served to personally enrich people who had never discovered the origin of their property. Here, of course, I'm talking about people who got rich in the '90s, mostly the little things that got rich while individuals were losing their entire assets, while the state was in debt, while people were losing their homes, their homes. It's those people who got rich then, after 2000, under the patronage, i.e. With the support of major reformers and big advocates of democratic ideas, they legalized their capital, i.e. washed away all those money that they had acquired in the least in a suspicious way. Of course, it wasn't just those who got rich buying businesses in Serbia and washed that capital. What's terrible is that we're also talking about capital that's probably acquired through various drug cartels and similar muggings. The largest number of controversial and failed privatisations, as has been said so far, was in the period from 2004 to 2008, when companies bought money of suspected origin returned from various Virgin Islands and other exotic destinations and countries from so-called countries. Tax heaven. Those who brought it out of the country in the 1990s, destroying the system and the country, have turned it all, to say, into that capital, buying firms in restructuring that work over 50,000 of our fellow citizens who are still waiting for this process to end. Those who bought these companies then caused inconspicuous adverse consequences, and they went unpunished. On their behalf, of course, the state has taken over the obligations of reconciliation of these companies and the care of the employees and for a reason we can say that many of our fellow citizens, and I suppose my fellow Members ask – why is that? We wonder why that is, not only because the state has made commitments to 50,000 people who have stayed on the street, but also because they wave after taking over the state, i.e. The roles of the state in these public enterprises, restructured companies, arise from various party personnel that have further destroyed these state-owned enterprises and brought them to the brink of functioning. We have such businesses all over Serbia today. It is one of perhaps the greatest absurdities of the post-privatization process, that even some who were hard-working mobsters, smugglers, drug dealers paid more attention to these public enterprises in restructuring than did party personnel who saw mostly money drawn for party and personal purposes. Unfortunately, we don't have a law on the origin of property today, nor a law on decentralisation, nor a good law on restitution, except for a man who does everything possible to get out of this law as we have, and I mean the Stranja Sekulić, the greatest part of it to correct this injustice from the past. We cannot return time now, but we can at least correct the part of the injustice, allow Serbia to develop evenly and protect privatisation entities from people with suspicious capital. Of course, we all know that there is not much left to privatise, but there remains a great burden and obligation to end restructuring in very difficult conditions with as little bad consequences as possible for employees and to achieve such macro-economic stability by privatising large systems and to start a business cycle that will give our citizens the opportunity to finally provide their own and their families through employment. As the Minister himself said, the amendments to the law were initiated by the Constitutional Court decision, which found that the unconstitutional provision of the Privatisation Act, which prevented the forced collection of claims from undertakings until the completion of the restructuring procedure, was to enter into force, as we all know, on 14 May. If that decision were to take effect, the assets and the value of these companies would be reduced and the interested partners would be rejected. I really don't see any reason why all MP groups don't support these changes, someone will say technical, and someone will say very important changes. They reiterate that when we talk about privatisation, it is not an accident that former Minister Bubalo is still in custody today and that I do not see any reason why it would not talk openly about parties that supported such a looting form of privatisation. Why don't we speak openly about people who turned their heads, and everyone knew that in Vojvodina they bought companies at the very least with suspicious capital in their hands and hats? (Chairman: Time, please. I'll be right there. I'll just say one more example, that 40 new golf courses were purchased in Northrans to which the taxi service was doing its job. Imagine if a private man bought it, how long would it take him to pay? I'll finish, literally just a sentence, two. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Demochrist Party will support the changes of course, but we ask you, Mr. Minister, to continue to work the way you worked, to boldly clean obstacles, not only on the European path, but when it comes to the creation of the rule of law and to finally see what happens at the Privatisation Agency, that even today we have people with suspicious biography, would even dare say, not to say, but I think I am well informed, that even today people who are being prosecuted, and even some who have judicial convictions are being appointed as directors, performers of various other executive functions and advisers of the directors themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u826	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, and let the People's MP Marijan Risticevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u827	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an interesting topic again. I don't mind working on Saturdays, being able to work on Sundays, being able to work at night, being able to work every day, it's absolutely not a topic, and it's not a matter of whether there were any bad moves in the past, of course there were. I would ask the ruling majority to understand that the elections have passed, that you have won the elections and that now is the time for what you promised the citizens to offer them. We have today, a couple of excellencies, changes to the laws that the Minister of Economy should be talking about. I don't mind the minister of justice being here because he will witness the adoption of a law that will be unconstitutional, like this one, because generally this is a constitutional court decision, this delay in applying the Constitutional Court's decision in five months. No one from the party I represent, including the two of us here, has ever expected anyone to solve the 162, three, five privatisations or those firms in restructuring. The point is, you promised. You said you'd handle it. Of course, those companies that haven't been privatized for 10 years, very hard to find their buyer, very hard to start working. It's not your fault. It's as clear as day. It's just a question of why you promise it again. The privatisation in this country began in 1989 if I remember correctly or in 1992, by some law in 1997, the next law, the 2001 law, the third law on privatisation. That's a good concept. It's the best concept in the atmosphere where you can't have a great concept, because privatisation isn't one natural process. It's an injustice from the past in a strange way, but the necessary way has to go back. The concept was good, the implementation was not good, I agree. Criminal implementation of the Privatisation Act from 2004 to the day of today, absolutely present. Who's to blame? The authorities that were in that period. Everyone. From March 2004 to the day of today, all criminal privatisations are by the wrong authorities indirectly and there are culprits who have their name and name. Arrest them. Of course they should be arrested. I was president of the Serbian government in 2003 when 700 and some of the companies were privatised that year, it was the best year for privatisation in Serbia with real incomes, which were not spent on salaries or pensions or pre-election meetings, but the government left over 400m euros in the National Bank, revenues from privatisation that year. If you do not believe, ask the mayor of Belgrade, who was then at the Privatisation Agency in charge of conducting the tender. He and others working in this government today, which is absolutely normal, are witnesses of a good start of privatisation. After that, privatisation falls into its crime scene that lasts until the day of today and is marked by the names and last names of responsible people who have been responsible for monitoring the programme. No one changed the 2001 Privatisation Act essentially because it was a good concept. I agree that implementation was bad, but the concept is good and remains good until today. Question – why isn't the Minister of Economy here today? According to some notified sources, he hasn't been in the country since May 1st. And that's his right, only the question is why are we discussing today such a law without the presence of a man who necessarily has to be in charge of this area and to answer questions that, with all due respect to the minister of justice, he cannot answer. This delay in implementing the fate of these companies will not change anything special. It is said that the minister himself said – the adverse consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision. That's what you said. Look in the stenogram, so let's arrest the Constitutional Court if it makes bad decisions. They can't be harmful decisions of the Constitutional Court, they need to be implemented. It's said that on May 14th, people will remain busy. They don't usually work. That's what we agree on. But there's another way to solve their question, not to play the Constitution and play with their fate for two, three, five, or I don't know how many months. There are a lot of good ways to do this, but this is not a good way to do it today, and I want the new government to succeed, but in this way, by the first law that's against the Constitution, I don't think it went well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u828	Thank you. Let the People's MP Marijan Risticevic prepare himself. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u829	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is outrageous. So you have before you a bill amending a law, followed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's decision, and someone is already giving himself the right to assess the constitutionality of this draft law on amending the law. I think the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely clear when it says who assesses the constitutionality of the general acts. So it can only be done by the Constitutional Court. I think it's inconclusive to say about the bill here in the procedure, the bill on which it is its opinion, and you've got, and I have this opinion here, given by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. There is also the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. It says in a report from the committee that the Committee has discussed the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, which the Government has submitted in principle, and believes the bill is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Then someone doesn't give himself the right, not that the right, normally, the MP has the right to say what he thinks and what he wants and doesn't answer for that opinion he makes here, but to say that it's unconstitutional, that the promoter wanted to act unconstitutionally, he could just replace the order of words in the existing article 20g, put it through the government here, as a promoter in the National Assembly for consideration and adoption and act as if nothing had happened. I ask you to read this proposal well on the amendment of the Law on Privatisation and to see that this does not play out the Constitutional Court's decision. The main obligation, among other things, is to record all claims. I think that colleague Batic spoke in her statement when she said that we had had a situation so far that investors were buying a privatisation entity and getting it in a completely different state from the state presented in the conclusion of the contract. Let's see what those claims are. And if I'm not mistaken, and several MPs mentioned it in their discussions, the convincing assessment is that it is a convincing percentage of the claim that these are the claims of the state. So on the one hand we have a human factor, we have workers who are employed in these companies and whose fate nobody essentially wanted to take care of in the previous period, of five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five years. So basically no one wanted to deal with the issue. Let's put ourselves in the next situation. We have a decision of the Constitutional Court. Without this change, it produces its effects on May 14th. I ask each of you a question. If we sit here with our hands cut off, what will happen? What will happen to these enterprises in restructuring, with their assets? We need one right, essential, system solution to this problem. Such a solution, I absolutely agree, is not obtained through one technical amendment to the law, through a law amending the Privatisation Act consisting of two members. No one here nor the MPs, nor the citizens following the assembly session, convinces that these two members will solve their problems. Far from it. These two members allow us to bring a systemic solution to their problems through the adoption of a brand-new privatisation law. We can agree or disagree on this thesis. The citizens have ruled. Someone's got 208, one of two votes. Please give it a chance that what we've promised the citizens we'll do, that we'll do. I think that's more than fair. We may disagree on something, but I also think it's scandalous, please, to mention the arrest of the Constitutional Court judges for making the decision they made. You said I said "damaging consequences". I said that the adverse consequences could arise unless we passed this law, which means that this law allows the Constitutional Court to implement a decision, because in no way does this law touch the essence of the Constitutional Court's decision. Is this law discriminatory amongst the trustees? Don't make it real. You can claim she's not real, I say she's not real. The MPs will eventually weigh our arguments, so they will evaluate. This bill does not touch on the essence of the Constitutional Court's decision. If he touched, we'd only go to a vicious circle where problems wouldn't be solved, and we don't go into a vicious circle with this. The proof that we are not going in will be seen by June, when the Privatisation Bill comes into this assembly. I agree entirely with what Mr. Zivkovic said – no one took the essentials to amend the law on privatisation. Here, someone's gonna find out who's gonna do it. That was brought out by the Prime Minister in his exposé. That's what I'm telling you today as a member of that government. One more thing that's been resenting since the beginning of the session. I just neglected to mention it, and I think it's important -- why is the minister of justice here, and he's not the minister of economy? I think it would be absolutely controversial for you to have a proposal for a law on privatisation and that I am the only one sitting here as a minister of justice in the government. This is about amending a provision of the law, following the Constitutional Court's decision. I think there's one more thing that's good, which is that we're also showing by this behavior that we don't treat the government as a set of feuds where everyone deals with their own resources, but the government has to be a well-organized, well-informed team. When we make decisions on this government, that we all stand behind these decisions as ministers, not to appear in public and in front of you with a story – you know, it's not my jurisdiction. He's not the Department of Law Proposing. The legislator is the Government, and the minister is an authorised representative of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u830	I thank Minister Selakovic. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on line. What member, please? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Misreading. ) Article 104. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u831	Two things. The Constitution. The law, which is being amended today in 2012, passed this parliament and then the committees in charge said it was in agreement with the Constitution. Both the chairman of that committee and the members of that committee and the majority of you were in then voted in favour of a law that, after a year, was declared unconstitutional. So give me the right at least to assume it's going to happen now. Of course, for easy reading even someone who doesn't have any ambition to show himself to a lawyer or to interpret the laws, it's obviously what I said was actually just bypassing the wide port of the decision of the Constitutional Court, but the essence is more important. What would happen on May 15 if the amendments to the law, or the Constitutional Court's decision, were to take effect? You're saying that that's when the property of the company, that 164, would have been attacked, damaged, reduced. And what happens in five months? Will they grow their assets in those five months? Will their debts be carried away by a flood or by a snowflake? No, he'll stay. What happens in five months? What kind of miracle is going to happen economically? Anyone to start it, can in five months those debts that have been collected for 50 years, 20 years, the last 10 years, however you want, be resolved by any government, even the government that inherited the best government in Serbia's history, self-proclaimed? That's not real. These are not solutions that are sustainable. You give these people an illusion. These people will have a vision of getting rid of something, and they won't get rid of it, as it hasn't been solved in the last year and a half, not for the last ten years. That's what I'm talking about. Of course you won the election. Of course the New Party can't stop you from making your decisions. We offer you little reason and little market understanding of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u832	I thank Ambassador Zivkovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u833	Thank you for a little reason. Let me add something more. I don't think there's a single man here who believes that in the next month, two or five months of all 162 or 164 enterprises in restructuring will flourish, that flood, wind or mail will take their debts, because it's absolutely unserious, impossible and unrealistic. What I am convinced of is the fact that this government of the Republic of Serbia is going to try one not a small number of these companies and the problems they are in to solve. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Is that five, and five companies is something. If it's 10, 20, 30 or 50, I think we'll all agree it's not meaningless. There are companies whose problems seem insecure. It's true, there are such ones, but it doesn't need to close your eyes in front of it. Is it possible that every company we've ever had has fallen apart, seriously, a large company that's dealt with, say, with the processing of fruit and vegetables? Is it possible in a country where for 5, 15, 20, 120 years we've been saying that agriculture is Serbia's development chance, that our tractor factory is going down? Obviously, something didn't work well and obviously we can't say – that's what this government is responsible for, that one government has cooked everything up and made all these problems. No, but every single one of those previous problems was sorting out new ones. I wouldn't agree with one thing. If you say that in 2003 it was the most successful privatisation, then how come since 780, if I'm not mistaken, then privatized enterprises, and we have only 28 successfully privatized as a whole of 2226. Is that normal then? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: That is not true. ) This is the Privatisation Agency's data. We can argue about whether or not the Agency gives the data accurate, but I'm asking you to be realistic, and the reality is that from just over 160 companies we can try to save a small number of these companies. Without this law, we can't save anyone. Now, that's true, and everyone in Serbia needs to know that. Without the adoption of this law, none of those 162 or 164 companies, the data differs, so they are brought here, neither can be saved. There are companies that need little. Let's give this government a chance that one of the few companies will try and manage to save and, through the systemic changes to the laws that follow this summer, allow us to resolve the employment issues of workers from those companies whose problem we will not be able to solve in such a way, but we will be able to solve them through the investment packages of the laws that we will propose here, but we will be able to solve them through the new employment policy of this government. I think it's the only possible and only reasonable way at this point. Whoever had the second proposal for a solution had both his mandates and his opportunities to implement those solutions. I think it's basically fair to let this government solve these problems in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u834	I thank Minister Selakovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u835	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'd like you not to separate our farmers in the future, if that's possible. I listened very carefully to what I thought was a farmer or a farmer, which fell for my eye and what I heard, that my fellow farmer assessed this law unconstitutional. We're farmers otherwise known that we know better than lawyers, even from the minister of justice. So, although I'm a farmer, a colleague of the previous speaker, I'd still say something can't be unconstitutional before it's brought in. So, the law, no matter how much a farmer I am, can be unconstitutional only from the moment we bring it in and when it's published in the official messenger. Apriore to claim that something will be unconstitutional, anyone can. Any MP could claim that, and we could not pass any laws in the assembly. Only after the adoption and publication of the law in the "Official Messenger" and the request for an assessment of constitutionality will the Constitutional Court assess whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. The privatisation I survived, and many of it survived here, was one predatory, predatory privatisation, which was made in agreement between politicians, political party owners and their friends. Therefore, there should not be much intelligence and should not be challenged that she has been criminal since the very beginning, not just since the end of 2003. This is certainly proof of the privatisation of three sugarcanes for three euros, the privatisation of sugarcane in Kovacica, Bac, Pecinci, later in Vrbas. So that's what I've got here. That privatisation confirms my words. It was conducted directly in hearing and in co-operation between leaders and political party owners and their tycoon friends, and in the meantime both became tycoons. So this is not just about the political party alliance, political party and tycoon owners, this is about one tycoon being the party's most powerful party director, so the ruling party, and that director bought three sugars for three euros. Only this one in Kovacica had 8.15m of sugar, which is 13,000 and some tonnes, which was then equivalent to about eightm euros. That sugar shop was sold for three euros. Does it need any better evidence that my fellow farmer was wrong, that criminal privatisations did not occur after 2003, but that they were both from the very beginning both criminal and that in this case a tycoon and the ruling parties could be proven then and at that time? Also, I have here a list of 18 agricultural combinations that I don't know how they failed, because they were repeatedly at that time, and before, supported by the state, financially, unlike the agricultural holdings that didn't have that privilege. I don't understand how these agricultural holdings on a much smaller property managed to survive, and these are now subject to this law, so they're in restructuring. There are 63 processing companies, processing operations, so I don't know how it happened at all, but there are explanations for that, too. Our privatisation model was like when you eat clams, you take what's right, and you give back what's wrong to the state. So that's why we're here today to correct what some others have ruined. There is also an example of criminal privatisation in the privatisations that were carried out under the Privatisation Act, which my fellow farmer did not want to talk about. Here's the object of the Central Committee building, so-called Usce building. I don't know why the police, the prosecution, are finally not dealing with this kind of privatisation. She's so criminal that we don't have to discuss whether she's against the constitution, because she's been criminal since the very beginning. This clearly shows that it was a sales competition, and this was done by the federal government in which my colleague farmer was Minister of the Interior and this was needed and how to combat, especially as it was property of the current state at the time, so the competition was called here, and the Privatisation Commission was chosen only 15 days after the closure of the competition. I don't know who received the competitive documentation at the time of the privatisation bids of the Central Committee building, the commission that was due to carry out the procedure was not yet appointed, but was appointed only 15 days after the closure of the competition. Also, this documentation makes it clear that the contract was signed with the firm, and, behold, miracles, the same party director, the biggest ruling party, who bought the sugars, participated in the competition. Sugar, though, bought something later. He participated as a contractor of the consortium in the competition and he was reportedly the most favourable. But, miraculously, the contract was not signed with the company "MK Group", but was signed with a firm that was not even established at the time of the competition and privatisation, but was founded only four months after the completion of the competition. So it was impossible for her to win the competition and it was not possible to conclude a contract with such a firm that absolutely did not participate in a competition that was conducted at a time when there was no commission to conduct the competition. If this isn't against the law, then I don't know what's illegal and unconstitutional. I understand that there is anxiety here, because those who have absolutely and unhingedly ruled over others cannot bear to have someone else rule over them and from there I understand that nervousness. However, since the minister is present here, I must say that they are laws, which are written in the Declaration of Rights, that the laws should be the same for all, that they are equally protected and that they are equally punished. Here today, hypocritically, those who, at the time of their government, allowed the laws to protect those who needed to be punished, and punished those who needed to be protected. Today we are discussing the consequences of privatisation. It's our farm way like when you have the chance to consume some fruit, to consume it in some regular state, you have to wait for the fruit leaves to bloom, to get rid of the fruit, so there's no accident, and then you can consume it. That's the way it is in the economy. In some ordinary state, we would have to make a product out of it, sell it, and harvest all those fruits. However, the founding state was not regular. During their rule, the fruit is dried and that fruit no longer produces fruit. That's why both the citizens and we here need to know that we can't consume it in a regular state now, that we have to plant fruit first, so we have to wait a few years for it to grow, that it grows, that it grows, that it grows, and then we'll just pick up and then we have this break thanks to those who are most rebelling against this law today and who have been the product of various crimes in terms of privatisation. So, since the minister of justice is here, I have to tell him that citizens expect that the laws no longer protect those we need to punish, nor punish those who need to protect, but they should turn that process over and they would like to get up early and go to work in factories, but their factories, thanks to these others, are no excuse more than the bread they lack because they strike in factories, and at home they starve, more than bread they wait for the injustice they have been inflicted on them once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u836	I thank the People's MP Rističević. Here you are, MP Goran Ciric. Let MP Dragan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u837	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I want to do something that is not very common today, which is to commend the government, because it has submitted this bill, but in the way it has admitted the first time, it seems, its own mistake and its own inefficiencies. I'll talk about facts, that's exactly what I think it's a big step, because only by accepting your own responsibility and your own mistakes can you go to some solution. Of course, this government is not solely responsible for the situation that needs to be corrected by the bill. Many before me have said that for 25 years in Serbia, the problem and the challenge of privatising and transforming social capital, but I think there are a lot of arguments on the basis of which I want to prove this claim. So, the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, first of all, in Article 2 and its amendment makes a fundamental proposal, very simple. We will postpone that time for 150 days with a reason that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the confidence of the privatisation entity in the restructuring is required to provide the Agency with a request for payment of the request with a solution for enforcement, enforcement and other documents proving their claims to the privatisation entity in the restructuring to record and claim. So new challenges for creditors, the new energy that needs to be invested to prove something that is already in place and what they've already been doing in this existing process. That's exactly what we were talking about on the Committee of Commerce. I got a really honest answer from the Secretary of State and Assistant Minister at the Ministry of Economy that unfortunately we don't have an up-to-date record when it comes to this procedure. What does that tell us? That responsibility is not only with previous governments, but also with the government since 2012. Here are two years since the May 2012 elections, so we had one government with Minister Dinkic at the Ministry of Economy, then a reconstructed government with Minister Radulovic and now a new government. Once again, I say, recognition of error and recognition of its own lack of efficiency is something that is commendable and I think this is the first step of this government that has honestly said before us, so the minister himself said here – that we were also wrong. The second view says that within 90 days of the date of expiry of the deadline from the first member of the Agency, the applications submitted for payment will be recorded and the level of the request of each trustee will be determined. So 30 plus 90 plus 30 is the new 150 days, five months. Since May, the law has been passed by voting in this assembly. We'll be in November of the month. I want to remind you of the November of last year, where we ask the question, as DS, why did this government and the previous government not react in November 2013, when the Constitutional Court made this decision with a delayed fact of six months and that the deadline for the previous government to take steps in the further restructuring of these systems? I know it's not a simple process and it's not only responsibility for these governments, but also for the previous ones, but I think it's very important to talk about the approach and the proposal for a solution, because it's not enough to criticise, it's also a proposal for a solution. In 2013, the Democratic Party proposed in the last term, when the 2014 budget was adopted, a solution that was then a mockery, namely that 600m euros in budgets planned for 2014, planned for the social programme and planned 60,000 to 100,000 workers of these restructured systems, focus on the development of undeveloped regions. So 600m euros for 20 regional centres and, among other things, space to invest in the development of some of these systems in restructuring. This law treats not only systems in restructuring, but also those that expect auction and tender privatisation. I will agree with some of my predecessors who said it is not possible to unilaterally and systematically access all 164 systems in Serbia, because they are diverse by their nature of work, but they are also diverse by the challenges in their regions. Some of these systems are mentioned here. Our proposal is to focus these planned 600m euros in the implementation of the social programme, as there will obviously be no space this year, because it will remain for some two months by the end of the financial year to focus on development and an attempt by selective approach, by individual access to the resuscitation of some of the systems mentioned. And as important as it is, as the Secretary of State, I can say, he was just saying, as he came from southern Serbia, I am from Nis, talking about the way that part of Serbia will wake up, so we also mentioned "Jumko" from Vranja. We know what the structure of the Vranj population is, what the structure of the workforce is, and that a large number of trained women are, above all, between 40 and 50 years old, who are hard to hire in any other sector, except in what they do best. Jumko is a large system that can be awakened in a way that is also sought by strategic partnerships, but also by greater involvement and concern of the state. Those people who, from the Predatorium, where they import that ball, whether cotton from Egypt, from the weaver shop, through the hall, produce something that is according to the standards of the military in Europe, which are members of the NATO Pact, can probably produce for the mail, which we have proven in previous years and today, can produce for the Army of Serbia, can produce for the MUP, because we are constantly talking about these needs. I think that these funds with the great challenges of these systems can raise production in such systems and thus make these systems much more attractive for future strategic partners, because they should not give up on the search for strategic partnerships, because we can certainly look twice at this challenge of a large number of unemployed, such a structured workforce or about the possibility, which often happens, because there is not a lot of such labour in Europe, nor is it with such a low labour price. I think that is where we should seek the motivation of future strategic partnerships, because we are witnessing that many large companies are moving their capital by looking for professional and available labour. I think it can turn into its own advantage. When we talk about proposals, we can talk about this approach, because in the announcement the Government and the Railway are working on taking loans and importing new wagons and modernising the Railways. I think it is important to talk about including our capacities then, because if we look at the list of companies in restructuring here we see the MIN Locomotive from Nis, MIN Vagonka, the Car Factory from the Kings, and we need to negotiate exactly how this capacity can be included in Serbia and how we can exploit the profiled workforce, because it is not largely in Europe and other countries. So not only criticism but also a proposal to encourage such a way of thinking. The proposal also related to the finding that there is no precise record – I think that one proposal that is currently talking about the state and one significant disintegration of our institutions in Serbia and insufficient communication is mutually. I think you can see that in different areas. Among other things, this is a topic, and I think it's an invitation for the entire government and all of you who work in ministries and all of us who can contribute to sound and smart proposals, to just work on this integration, primarily in line with the active time of information telecommunication development and to encourage the development of electronic administration. Mr Minister, in your ministry earlier this meeting was transferred from the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and Regional Development to a significant number of people who have made a step in the integration and unification of different responsibilities, from the Ministry of Interior, local self-government, state administrations, etc. Because we are often witnesses and as citizens how complicated the procedures are and simplifying these procedures is necessary for all of us. In this way and modernisation and investment in this sense will also be important for something that is perfectly appropriate and normal in the 21st century, that we have up-to-date information, because we often hear from the finance minister that we first determine how many employees we have in public systems, and believe that, as someone who has experience in this, you are required as director of a public enterprise and any system in Serbia to send final reports each year in which one of the data and the number employed in that system and plans for next year, reductions or possible increases, depending on the plans. So, there's this data, it just needs to integrate it. The need for integration is obvious. I don't think that's going to be solved by the Office for Quick Answers, but rather by insisting on strengthening the capacity of institutions, each individually, but also by working on the full integration of all these systems. Once again I will return, before I ask the questions that are important to all of us, because we are all interested in these systems and problems hundreds of thousands of workers and their families in Serbia being resolved, it is not possible to solve them all but I believe that some and how can be solved, which is – what after these 150 days? Of course, I would not want the same thing to happen after 50 or 150 days since November 2013, when the Constitutional Court made that decision, that we have the same answer in November this year. Therefore, it is necessary to be proactive, to work parallelly on each individual solution, but also to look for strategic partners in this regard. I'd use this time that I have to say that I don't think it's a good approach, I've started with that, a willingness to make my own mistake, so that, with the criticism of the opposition, you might make a better decision. At least use one smart word and install into your solutions. But it certainly is not good that we always have an invitation to the previous governments on every criticism, first of all we measure that time from 2000 onwards, let's go back to the 90th and how deeply we will go back to the past or, now, in 2014 we will return to May and who will interpret it. I think it's important that we all show together this kind of responsibility that everything doesn't start with us, that each of us, individually as sinful people, have the right to make mistakes and respect the continuity of this country and the people who invested ourselves in this system. We wouldn't be sitting in this room today if it wasn't for some people 80 years ago who made it this way, and we have to wonder what it is that we left behind and what we're going to leave for future generations, in a way that they're proud of us as we are of our ancestors. Because of all this, I ask the question – what after these 150 days? What will be the active moves that will try to solve problems in some part and the number of these systems prior to restructuring? Once again, I want to point out one important thing, in my opinion, that despite all good will, and political and technological and knowledge, it will not be enough unless we change the atmosphere. I think it is not good to react in this way that when someone comes out with critical tones they get from the drawer prepared data and personal attack or tomorrow perhaps some front page in the yellow press, with constant criticism – and what did you do in 2000, 2004, 2008? I think we need to turn to the proposals and offer solutions and a common attempt to get out of this crisis. That won't be possible unless we create an atmosphere where we still have the right to make a mistake. Maybe a lot of people will convict me for that. Ali. I think that calling and the constant insistence that there is no right to error and zero tolerance in relation to error can hardly bring capable people and ready people who will risk any of these 164 systems, to tell them we're putting you in the game, but you can't kick the basket because if you miss once, you're out of the game and you have no more rights. If you make 100 decisions in any system, we MPs are probably wrong, probably ministers in the government, directors of public enterprises, which at central or local level. There's got to be a right not to make a mistake, unless that mistake is malicious, unless it's systematic, and if it's repeated too often. I think it's a way to change the atmosphere and motivate people, not just control and threaten. It's a prerequisite with these conditions that I believe, at least part of the system is raised before restructuring and we're proud when next time we get a report on what happened in this law. Otherwise, the DS won't support a proposal like this because I think, and I won't give qualifications, that it's in Article 2. The draft law amending the Privatisation Act did the same thing that the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional only now within 150 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u838	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic. Let Vladimir Pavicevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u839	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today's amendments to the Privatisation Act. My colleagues have already said. But what I would say, first of all, is that in the pre-election campaign, we promised urgent resolution of the company's restructuring problem, and today is the first step on that path. What I would like to ask you personally, Mr. Minister, is that I myself, as well as the MP group of the NS have submitted, a certain number of amendments, and I would first and foremost subscribe to Article 20g. in paragraph 2, after the restructuring is completed, or after the sale by a public tender or by a public auction, I would stop there and ask you to consider our proposal for companies sold after the restructuring to be broken down by public auction. Why am I stressing this, Mr. Minister? For the simple reason that it has proved in the practice so far that the companies sold to the public auction, unfortunately, have been very infamous. What's the problem? It may theoretically occur that one man, which happened in a previous series of years, buys first one company, and then assigns it and puts it under ice and buys another and third, and that would be particularly devastating for a company in a metal complex, or a large number of foundries that will be sold after the expiry or completion of the restructuring. What I would also like to underline is that these amendments to the law also give very broad powers to the Privatisation Agency. The Privatisation Agency, if it will already have such broad powers, must be staffed and supervised, but fair supervision of companies that will be privatised, because in previous practice and in previous experience we have had plenty of reason to doubt their objectivity, especially when they have controlled the companies that are privatised and we have seen that there have been a lot of problems in the previous period. Also, when we talk about companies in restructuring, we've heard from a lot of colleagues about companies that don't work, but we here out of these 150, or 160 companies have a large number of companies that work. We also have a large number of companies that have their own facilities in different cities and in different areas and where the Ministry of Economy should first of all stand at the point of view that it includes local self-government as much as possible. When I said earlier to exclude the auctioned vision of sales, I think that even in the tender sale, it would take maximum for the tender commissions to involve people from local self-government, because they know in the best way which people can be strategic partners or tomorrow potential buyers of these companies. What is extremely important to me is to predict, and I expect it in the new privatisation law, the way that companies that are now in restructuring can be recapitalised, and they are extremely important for the municipalities and cities in which they are now located. I would also ask you, Mr. Minister, to replace the words “thirty days” in Article 2 of Section 3:“ sixty days. ” We'll talk about this when there's a debate in particular, but why am I saying that? The length and procedure of adoption of the proposal among different creditors is different, and therefore the deadline for adoption of the proposal should be extended. This is extremely important, because we have creditors with individual companies that are foreign firms and I'm afraid this 30-day deadline can be very short for this procedure to be successfully completed. What I also have to mention is that there are specific types of companies currently in restructuring. I have to say an example of "Elke" from Arangelovac, in which a large number of persons with special needs work. Such companies must be recognized in the resolution ministry itself. Such companies must have special supervision in the privatisation process itself, in any way this privatisation process is achieved. I would also like to point out in terms, which is – how the Privatisation Agency will manage to clearly list in all 164 companies the debts that these companies have towards their creditors. I would like to ask you, first of all, the distinguished colleague of State Secretary Mr. Stevanovic, to tell us before the discussion in particular on Monday whether the reports, which we have all heard so much about, former Minister of Economy Radulovic, who sought ID cards, and among them were ID cards and enterprises in restructuring, there are reports of the company's debt in restructuring, if this is summed up. That information would be very important to all of us. On the other hand, I think that a very important view of public enterprises, particularly EPS and Serbiagas, is at the moment when the ministry is on the basis of the tenders received to privatise certain firms in restructuring that can be restructured in a very fast and efficient way and where a price can be reached for these companies, and from that price is later paid, primarily to companies that are the biggest creditors, which are EPS and Serbiaagas. I would ask that a single coordination body be created at the Ministry of Economy which will respond in a clear and efficient manner to the requirements of local self-government, that those companies that already have potential strategic partners today or next week can be effectively solved and not wait for the flow of 150 days, because we have the same number of companies that have already started working so-called. The UPP, or organised bankruptcy programme, which could already come out as successful companies tomorrow and which could very quickly find strategic partners. (Chairman: Time, please. ) There will be an opportunity to say more about all this in the discussion in particular, but I think I have touched a few things that are very important in order for the largest number of companies that have been able to restructure these days to say that we have successfully solved them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u840	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Novac Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u841	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Honored Minister Selakovic, the New Party MPs will vote against the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation and I would like these five minutes, as far as I have, to use to offer two very strong arguments, above all to the Prime Minister, Mr Selakovic, who we believe should not be adopted in this form. I'll take my turn. Our first argument concerns the next one. We believe that if this draft law on the amendment of the Law on Privatisation was adopted, it would be a drastic violation of the rule of law. I'll try to prove this thesis by calling for some facts. The first fact is that Article 20z, which is actually here, reads this – from the day of the restructuring decision to the day of the decision to end the restructuring, and no later than 30 June cannot be imposed against the privatisation entity. It's fact number one and there's no dilemma. Fact number two -- the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia found that the provision of Article 20z was not in agreement with the Constitution. I don't think there's any problem with that either. The third fact is the following – The Constitutional Court decided, first of all, that the holders of the claim against the privatization entities in the restructuring is undoubtedly a limited right to property. What does that mean? That means the central problem here is the restriction of property rights. Fourth fact – The government comes here with a draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, which is said here – the next Constitutional Court decision, and in my court, past or against the Constitutional Court's decision, is actually doing something that directly violates the rule of law and constitutionality, which is an additional extension of the restrictions on property rights. That is why, Mr Selakovic, we believe that the adoption of this law would be against the constitution. The Constitutional Court has already found that this principle at the heart of your Privatisation Law violates the Constitution. I don't think a reasonable man who wants to uphold the rule of law and constitutionality will repeat such a mistake. We come to the fact that the adoption of this bill would drastically violate the principle of rule of law. I agree with Mr. Martinovic when he says that it is convenient that there is a minister of justice here who performs on behalf of the government defending this law, but I think it is terribly unfortunate when the minister of justice defends the bill which is obvious, I have served the facts, in accordance with the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court is, on the basis of Article 20z, judging on this principle which is important to me, already said that. So we're going to pass an unconstitutional law and we're aware of that. We don't think the Assembly should do that. Mr Selakovicu, second argument – The Constitutional Court, when it decided that Article 20ž was unconstitutional, gave a time period of six months to address this situation. My question to you, since you were Minister and in the previous government, is this – what did the Serbian government do in those six months to solve the problem? Why didn't the Serbian government do anything about it, and now it's asking for another five months to do what it hasn't done in the first six months? I have one more thing here. There were suggestions for solving this problem. You are in a government whose minister you too had a colleague, the Minister of Economy, who has offered a proposal to solve this problem, which would have provided us now, if it had been adopted, not to discuss this situation, not to threaten workers with being threatened, not to talk about hundreds of thousands of people who may have stayed on the street, etc. That proposal was rejected. The government showed, in my court, that she couldn't solve one problem. And when the government shows clearly that it cannot solve a problem, I think, the problem should not be solved by violating the principle of rule of law, but by representatives of the government, and you and the Prime Minister should come to this assembly to say – we do not have a solution to the problem, let's open a debate on how best to solve this problem, and we would participate in this debate. (President: Time.) That was two arguments. We have offered and submitted two amendments, which, if adopted, provide us with and vote in favour of this proposal. But by adopting these amendments, everything that's proposed by the Privatisation Act is completely destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u842	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u843	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why didn't the government do anything? I wouldn't say she didn't do anything. What has been started in this area at the time of the previous government's mandate will experience its finale and in the time of the government's rule, even more effectively and even faster and with an even greater capacity, but it is not true that it has done anything. The facts say the opposite. A few minutes ago, one of the distinguished colleagues spoke about the need to seek strategic partners to address the issues of some large enterprises, so let's say, JUMKO from Vranj was mentioned. I'm really going to avoid, I'm avoiding talking about taking responsibility to someone before we do, but I have a duty to say, if someone had a mandate, four, five or eight years, and in the course of four, five or eight years, he hasn't applied what he's been telling us to apply today, I can criticise it, established. If we have companies where the way to solve the problem was exclusively subsidising by the state without asking for a strategic partner, without good, fair, capable management staff that will apply what we are advised to do today, and, by the way, we are also trying to apply wherever we can. Then we have the right to really say - don't talk about the past, if that's a good way, why didn't one of you apply it? When it comes to constitutionality. The provision should be interpreted as a whole. So to read Article 1 and Article 2 in each attitude, in each sentence. It is very clear here – in Article 2 what is the landing of the move and how the issues of the claims reached and their reconciliation will be resolved. When the Constitutional Court said it was doubtless a limited right to property. We're not saying that the Constitutional Court was wrong, the Constitutional Court did its job well. But if you don't know how much property he has, and what his right is, then you have to get a chance to figure it out. You could say six months, if the previous government could have done it, you'd probably have. Since she couldn't, we had elections, a new government was elected, and this government is going to do it. I think that's absolutely correct to say. You can say it - you don't believe it. You can say -- they were like this, like, colleagues, capable and incompetent. All right. But on March 16th, we had an election. In those elections, citizens voted freely. We got the results of those choices. Based on these results, this government is formed. This government has come out with a resolution program and this difficult and serious problem. I say again, this is the creation of a technical prerequisite for this problem to be resolved, completely, in a more significant part, in the extent to which it has not been solved so far. So this is the only way we can do it. We'll have a discussion in detail. I'm very willing to try to convince me there's another way. I'm going to exchange opinions with you on an argument basis, but what I'm trying to say is that the debate was very good for you. I like to hear something like that. So if you think there's another way, introduce us to that way. Then we'll talk about why I think that way is good, or it's not good, and if you're able to convince me, as a proposing representative of the better purpose, of your proposal, but of the government's proposal, we'll also consider the possibility of that adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u844	We thank Minister Selakovic. The replica was answered by dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u845	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think the opposition colleagues are right, neither Mr. Ciric, nor Mr. Pavicevic. So we're not going back to the past and who's to blame for what. What Mr. Minister said is absolutely correct. So to appreciate the constitutionality of an act, you have to interpret it as a whole. State creditors do not exclude themselves from their right to collect their claims. They will collect their claims, as referred to in Article 1 amending Article 20g after the completion of the restructuring, i.e. after the sale by public tender or public auction, by informing the courts and other bodies responsible for the adoption of the grounds and order for forced payment at the payment of the sale price and of the creditors who make their claim at that price. So that's about state creditors. They will be settled as provided for in Article 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Privatisation Act. As for the argument made by Mr. Ciric. It is not true, Mr. Ciric, that the trusts of privatisation entities that are in restructuring will have to prove their claim again. Therefore, Article 2 writes well – within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the confidence of the privatisation entity in the restructuring is required to submit a request to the Agency for payment of the request with a solution to the execution. Therefore, the decision to execute is made after a court ruling has been reached. By means of an executive correction, i.e. the court ruling and other documents proving their claim to the privatisation entity in restructuring in order to record the claim. Thus, they do not prove the basis of their claim, but it has already been proven because there is a judicial verdict, or there is a solution to the execution. They just need to file that delivery to the Privatisation Agency to record the claim. If you allow just one more sentence, and I think it's in favor of the quality of this debate. Because opposition colleagues praised the former Minister of Business Radulovic. I think we've spent a lot of time. The restructuring companies spent a lot of time filling the so-called personal maps of enterprises owned by a majority of state-owned companies and almost every day, each of these companies faced some new format i.e. A new form of ID. Four, five months went by because companies instead of working filled out ID cards. I think it was a big break-in. The government is now making a major step in this direction in the sense that the Privatisation Agency will record at last all claims that all creditors have towards privatisation entities in restructuring both state and non-state trusts. So this law doesn't just have a technical character, it's also essential. It will allow all claims to privatisation entities in restructuring to finally be found in one place, this time at the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u846	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u847	As I understood that Mr. Martinovic also had a replica, I see his replica lasted three minutes and 30 seconds. I hope mine can last that long?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u848	Mr. Martinovic called before you did. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u849	Yeah, but the replica, whoever answers, I think it takes two minutes, but okay. I'll stick to my two minutes. There are three things, Mr. Selakovic. You're saying this is the only time we're open right now. I think the only way we can't go is through a drastic violation of the rule of law. I remind you, in an explanation that came from the government very nicely, that's your argument, that the Constitutional Court, when it made this decision, had, first of all, a restriction on property rights. This means that it was an important principle for the Constitutional Court to decide. This means that in changing the Law on Privatisation, we must not repeat the principle that the Constitutional Court has already established that it was the principle on which it assessed a law as unconstitutional. I think it's a violation of the rule of law. We can't go that way. The other thing is, I didn't say that the Serbian government didn't do anything in any sphere. I tried to discuss this particular situation exclusively. The Serbian Constitutional Court gave a six-month period and I also concluded on the basis of this draft law amending the Law on Privatisation that the government did not use those six months to do something. There's no consequence. What's the consequence of the only visible? That the government is now proposing a law which, if found as a item of the agenda at the Constitutional Court, will again declare unconstitutional. That's not a good way to go. The third thing, and I end this replica, you say – well, here you are, when you were in power, you had a chance, then why didn't you? I've never, Mr. Selakovic, been in any government. I have always been critical of the authorities in Serbia, even elsewhere. I also think that this one critical attitude should be respected, because the idea of going through the proposals that are best and our debate contributes to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u850	Minister Nikola Selakovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u851	So it is undeniable that the Constitutional Court said that this solution that we want to change today is a limited right to property, which does not mean that in our legal system, as in any other legal system in the world, there is no possibility of limiting property rights in certain cases. But, when the Constitutional Court found that the property rights in Article 20g of the existing Privatisation Act were violated, it was estimated that it was done badly because the restructuring institute instead of the category to last for a certain limited period of time, was played out and began to extend to indefinitely. Here it points to another purpose, so we can agree or disagree. I'm happy we don't get along in some things. As you defend your position, I defend the government's position. I think it's legitimate for both of us. The government must weigh the consequences of every decision it makes. I once again said that the last government could solve this quickly and efficiently in six days, in six weeks, in six months, it would solve it. That government didn't have the capacity to do it, this one has it, and they're going to do it, and that's why we're going to change like this today. You would be absolutely right that we went to the adoption of an almost identical provision of the law, which was assessed by an unconstitutional change in the order of words in the sentence, by changing the date set out therein, but not done, because this is not the end of the restructuring process, and in the provision of which the Constitutional Court valued it is talking about. There's something else not on purpose, but you've interpreted some of my words as being directed to you, not being directed to you, and so just to clarify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u852	Thank you. Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just one small correction to what the distinguished counterpart Pavicevic said. So, Mr Pavicevic, the Constitutional Court does not appreciate constitutionality, as you say, whether the constitutionality of the principle is principled, but the constitutionality of the legal norms of the law. The Government of the Republic of Serbia has substantially amended this draft law on the legal norm relating to this famous Article 20z by proposing that state confidence will collect its claims from entities privatising to the public tender method, i.e. public auctions after the restructuring is completed, i.e. after the sale by public tender or public auction, by informing the courts and other bodies responsible for the adoption of the grounds and order for forced payment of the sale price and of the credentials which they sow their claim from that price. That has to be taken care of. So the Constitutional Court cannot appreciate the principles. You know, principles are something unspecified. What's for you maybe the principle, for me, isn't. The Constitutional Court deals with a highly exact matter that is unquestionable. They're legal norms. He estimated that the legal norm contained in Article 20g of the existing legislation is not constitutional. The government of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, amended the 20z article, which reads as quoted by Minister Selakovic and as quoted by us today many times. In the hierarchy of state authorities, the National Assembly is older than the Constitutional Court. You also have to take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u854	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u855	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Selakovic, Mr Martinovic, there are three things I would like to say here right now. I agree that the Constitutional Court does not have to decide on the principles, but the Constitutional Court also decides on the basis of some principles. In light of this proposal to change the law on privatisation, the proposer, the Serbian government, is called on firstly to call for the constitutional court to decide on the constitutionality of the Law on the privatisation of members of the 20z to do so, as it writes here, the unquestionable limitation of property rights. So the Constitutional Court evaluated something, decided on something based on some, as it estimated, relevant principles. I think that's a fact. Secondly, with this proposal to amend the Privatisation Act, what did the Serbian Government do? It only expanded the number of actors restricting property rights, which went directly contrary to the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision. I think, that's point 3 here, that it would be fair that, if this is a matter of fact, then the government sends its representative, in this case the minister of justice, to say - we don't know how to solve the problem, and this time the way we go involves violating the rule of law, so that we can see if someone is willing to vote for it or not. If the government wants to solve problems by not upholding the rule of law, we New Party MPs will never vote for such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u856	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u857	Thank you, Mr. Becic, for giving me the opportunity to replicate Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Pavicevic, it seems that you and I are not reading the same text of the bill. The reasons for the adoption of the law in paragraph 2 well states: ‘The Constitutional Court’s decision, the number and that, as of 14 November 2013, found that the provision of Article 20g of position 1. The Privatisation Act is not in agreement with the Constitution, first of all taking into account that the holders of the claim against the privatisation entities are undoubtedly limited to the right to property within the meaning of the provisions of Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. “ So find out where the word is — principle or principle. You can laugh all you want, it looks like it's going well. (Chairman: Please do not address another MP. ) The Constitutional Court appreciates the constitutionality of legal norms, not the constitutionality of your principles or my principles, but the constitutionality of legal norms. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has found that the provision, not the principle, of Article 20g of position 1 does not comply with Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, respecting the Constitutional Court's decision, changes the 20z article by condemning until the state's creditors can't collect their claims from privatisation entities in restructuring. The deadline is when the restructuring process is terminated, i.e. when the procedure is concluded by a public tender, i.e. a public auction. In this regard, the government of the Republic of Serbia absolutely respected the Constitutional Court's decision. It really doesn't make any sense to transfer the government to this bill to play the Constitutional Court's decision or to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No, we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision with this bill of law, and we are defending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with this bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u858	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u859	Dear President, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, I would like to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation that we are discussing today, because it aims to speed up the process of restructuring and privatising those enterprises that have significant debts, above all, according to state creditors. These debts, which are not small, are rather slowing down the privatisation of these companies, many of which have been blocked due to the inability to pay off their debts to state creditors who want to settle the debt to court rulings, which include forced collection. The fact is that such a situation does not contribute faster to the end of privatisation and that these companies are pressured by forced collection orders literally cannot survive. They don't pay their salaries, they fire the workers and, unfortunately, declare bankruptcy. It's not good for anyone, it's not good for the state, it's not for the workers, it's not for the trustees. The solution offered by this bill is going towards creating somewhat better conditions for a faster conclusion of numerous privatisation procedures. It is true that the proposed state solution and state confidence temporarily deny the settlement of their claims by forced payment, only until the end of restructuring or privatisation. Forced payment of debts is made after the sale of a company that will settle its claims by orders or otherwise. Many here believe that the state hereby waives the portions of its income on which it has the right on the basis of the forced collection of its claims. However, me and my fellow MPs feel that the state is not losing anything to this solution. On the contrary, she will charge her claims as a state trustee after the privatisation process is completed and will certainly charge them from the sale price according to the procedure prescribed in the law. I believe that this legal solution is a good stimulation that the state is currently providing to a number of companies, which are now in the privatisation process and are burdened with the debts of state creditors and by a bunch of court orders for their forced collection, which, unfortunately, cannot be executed. I'm going to state as an illustration of companies in my area that can't finish the privatisation business without a problem, even though they have very good foreign partners. For example, we have a production company from Surdulica that wants to buy an Italian partner, who would invest as much as 15m euros over the next three years, but the condition of this partner is that the company be without debts, without any dispute with employees and with a country's previously implemented social programme. If the state would delay this company's forced payment of its claims until the privatisation is completed, it could be much simpler to enter into the negotiation process with this foreign strategic partner. As my colleagues said earlier – Serbia has no money, but there are plenty of production halls, there are good and valuable workers. So, investors, Mr. Minister, should be offered this. A similar example is with a catering company in my area, which is in social property, which is under the heavy burden of government creditors' debt and which is why they are threatening bankruptcy. In this company, more than 40 workers are out of work if they are currently carrying out an emergency collection procedure. This company is working, workers are receiving salaries, the state is making peace, the tax administration is blocking this company from some 2007 debt, and it's been on strike since yesterday. Imagine, Ministers, 40 jobs, that Surdulica one undeveloped municipality should remain without 40 jobs, when in southern Serbia every job is significant. I would ask that the blockades of this company be prevented so that this company can continue, because it is a state-owned company and a government debt. I'd like to ask you to solve this problem as soon as possible. Therefore, on behalf of a number of companies in my area, which have a large burden of accumulated debt, above all, according to state creditors, I propose that this law be adopted and thus provide a more favourable position in the privatisation process. I am sure that this proposed measure would be given to all states, investors, businesses and their workers. Dear colleagues, I suggest we support this law. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u860	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u861	The question is: where is the basis of the Privatisation Agency Act that when the 30-day deadlines start to run, they are submitted with payment requests and where is the basis for them to decide for the next 90 days, i.e. to de facto act as if they are conducting bankruptcy proceedings? The question is not irrelevant, and if the answer is that it will only be a law that will be passed, then I understand what it is, but still, I don't think the whole job that's put before the Assembly is serious enough and it's not about the government, or the opposition, but it's about 57,000 people, and I don't know what the number that's going to have on our joint joy is an investor or a strategic partner, but whatever it is, however small, it's always too big for those who are going to end the restructuring process, because this law is about losing their jobs. I ask you to answer the question of the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u862	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u863	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been given a specific question, so I'm really going to take the opportunity to answer it. I would agree with any intention to ask questions if it is suspected here, or if it is assumed that this amendment of the Privatisation Act establishes some new jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, which would certainly not be correct or legally sustainable. However, in Article 9. The Law on the Privatisation Agency, which lists the operations carried out in the privatisation process, is implemented by the Agency, in paragraph 1 of point 7, says that the Agency, which shall quote the exact provision, in the conduct of the privatisation operations, the Agency, and then, under point 7, shall carry out restructuring in the privatisation process or direct the request to the competent authority to carry out restructuring in the privatisation process. There is no doubt that the recording of the claim is only one small point in the restructure operations and that is a concrete basis. The Privatisation Agency Act states that these are the main responsibilities of the Agency itself, and through other laws, transactions which fall under those responsibilities, in this case the Privatisation Act, are defined in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u864	Mrs. Comic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u865	Just some extra questions, if that's all right? If not, it's okay. If that's true, if this law doesn't provide for a de facto bankruptcy procedure, if all this is said about 30 plus 90 days' deadlines can be subdued under restructuring, then we have a problem interpreting the concept of enterprises in restructuring. Great. I'm telling you this because I think it's our common interest that this is not to be taken down by constitutional complaints or individual complaints, as I believe our common interest to know what will happen to 57,000 employees times three times their family, and as we know to be the biggest trustee of the state for companies in question, 162. So, there are too many serious things on the edge, on the sawmill, that you and I should be pleased that the point you read me is the basis for the Agency to receive payment requests that are executive and to decide on them. I'm asking you to understand that I'm saying this exclusively by not seeing you here in 150 days, so we're tracking behind us a huge series of problems that we have, because someone is going to try to advertise to the Privatisation Agency an invalid, unauthorized, how can I say, without the authority to do this job. I think it's too important that we leave it under suspicion. I'm pleased with the answer, and thank you, but for your work and for the sake of these 57,000 people, I think we should remove any suspicion of the Agency's jurisdiction. Thank you for this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u866	The word has Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u867	There's only one sentence you'll let me do. The question was on one side strictly formal-lawly and I answered it like that. We are here to respect the law and the Constitution and, in respect of the Constitution and the law, to pass laws that will affect the future of our country and solve many problems. It should undoubtedly be borne in mind that the main intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when proposing such an amendment of the law, is to care for those 56,000 employees in these companies and, normally, members of their families. If you weren't worried and you weren't worried, then this law wouldn't exist in front of you. If someone had known this problem to solve, I believe everyone who won the previous elections, in all the years in Serbia, I believe that all people had good intentions at the moment they came to office, he would have solved it by now. I completely agree with what you said about everything being on the sawmill and that it's about extremely sensitive decisions that concern a large number of people. A convincing majority of those people, who live extremely hard. To solve these problems in one serious way, responsible to all of us who live here today, but also to those who live here tomorrow, we have to go to solutions that often know to be absolutely unpopular, but that, with a consistent, systematic, good application, gives us an opportunity for a better and more certain future. I respect your concern when you asked this question, your intention. I only point to one detail. The agency only proposes, it makes a motion to riot the claim. (Gordana Comić, from the place: "To whom?" How? She delivers it to the trustees. It's not a bankruptcy procedure. The privatisation agency has been doing this for the past 10 years. So this isn't something we're making up now. The Agency acts like this. We can have another debate, whether the Agency is doing well, whether it's doing its job well, but that's another topic. This agency is working. We're not making up anything new. It's just that this agency has worked so far. Obviously, if we have a situation that we haven't recorded all the claims, something hasn't been done right. I'm saying again, that's a different story, but let's see how this problem is solved, put it in reasonable time frames, which I think is put in this way. I just stayed in debt to Mr. Ciric to answer the question – what after these 150 days? If I'm not mistaken, that was the question. We won't wait 150 days. It doesn't occur to us to wait 150 days, then figure out what we're gonna do. We've already started doing some things. In that sense, interpret what I was saying in the opening part, which is that, through the adoption of new system laws, we will solve certain issues in a different, more efficient, better way. This isn't a mere buy of time, so let's calm down these 150 days, so when 130, 140 days come, hook up with us, let's see what we do then. No, we are aware that this requires a large number of unpopular measures and moves. Therefore, this government proposes a whole package of measures to improve the investment environment, which concerns the employment of the unemployed, so new workers, and to create a good, balanced system. No one thinks that a stick can drive 30, 40, 50,000 people into the streets. So we're looking for solutions. We're somewhere to go to solve this problem. For the first time in a long, long series of years, in an almost impossible situation, in a remote area, such as the Priboj municipality, we were able to find a potential strategic partner, potential FAP. Give me someone potential you found in the previous 15-year sequence. Let's give me one that came in from Finland to this extent and said, "I want to bet something here." (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: FAP worked.) ) Don't start that story – FAP worked. You know what it was all about in 2000. Do you know what it was all about in 2000? Do you know what was exported from this country at the time of the bombing, at the time of the sanctions, in a much more difficult economic time than it is today? It's not working today either. Why isn't it working? Don't let us get into that story. You say FAP worked. The FAP did work for the Army of Serbia. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: It's not working now.) Who says it doesn't work now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u868	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u869	Please, Chairman, there's really no throwing away. I'm ready to answer every question you ask. There's no such thing as running away. I'm just asking a question, if we're going to go with that logic, this one or that one was working, do you know what it was doing, so it's not working today? The deeper we go into the past, we'll see that it's been working more and more for the firm, and today it's not working. I don't think that's leading us anywhere. We need a sustainable system. The FAP was working. How long did FAP get the subsidy? How much of a subsidy did he get to work? Is it fair then to say – FAP worked? On what basis did he work? I'll tell you, you know, and Jellyzar's working today. How much does this cost the state of Serbia on a monthly or annual basis? Don't use those tricks that don't have a basis. There's been a lot of things going on, so it's not working today. A lot of things we created for the sake of, so the state paid to do something, and if it had let it on the market, like the idea 14 or 15 years ago, when we opened everything to ourselves, or to open Serbia and the Serbian market, we wouldn't be in this situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u870	Thank you. National MP Dragan Sutanovac. On what grounds? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u871	Based on the replica. It was very clear that the minister spoke to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u872	You can't get from a replica, you're not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u873	Then I'll be on the basis of our time as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u874	You can't now. No more time, no more time, no more time, no more time, no more time, no more time, no more time, no more time,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u875	I've got 16 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u876	You can only end up as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u877	Mr. Selakovic, have you spoken to me or not? You spoke to me directly. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u878	You can end up as an authorised representative. National MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u879	Dear President, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, today we have had the opportunity to hear on behalf of the promoters of practical changes and additions to the Law on Privatisation and Explanation with which we eventually came out here in the open, but also with an explanation of many of the issues that we had in mind about the privatisation itself. What is good, which is that we have heard an explicit display of the whole privatisation process given to us by Mr Martinovic, and based on this presentation, we can see that the situation has been at least simple in the past 10 to 15 years, if we consider that 2.266 companies have been privatised, that around 220,000 people have practically lost their jobs, and that it has been paid into the budget of 177 billion dinars that have been practically spent. The part about which I think Mr. Minister gave or deliberately did not say was to ask the question – who was privatizing, in what way and what origin of capital was there when certain companies were privatised? What am I saying that for? Because we were aware that privatisation was carried out by many companies because of the purchase of locations, and not because of the work they were dealing with, the basic companies that were privatised, that eventually the workers were fired, and that for the failed contracts precisely because of that, in the part of the layoff of workers, they were returned to the company, as naked without one dinar, and as part that brought many problems which ended in 2013-2014 with 750m euros of annual budget fees. As such a result today in an explicit form we have registered 164 enterprises in restructuring, by saying that from seven to ten of these companies have unresolved status, and therefore we are talking explicitly about 156 enterprises in restructuring and today we are talking about 58,889 employees. This is what Mr Selakovic was talking about, that this number of employees is real, or real life is quite different. What we realized today on the Committee is that these changes and additions to the Privatisation Act are practically one measure of real life, of daily life, and that this government has shown a high degree of awareness that it understands what real life is and what the need of society is, but it realizes that it has to rationalise the economic system and the financial sector at all, but that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. The part we forgot was before the elections were called, where representatives of many trade unions came to the Serbian Assembly, especially restructuring firms, who would have been affected by this Constitutional Court decision that it applied explicitly since 15 May. I would remind you that at one point, all trade unions, over 500 of them, have reached an agreement on the constitutional court's decisions to which a large number of people, including over 30,000 employees, were left overnight without a job, and they were one delegation to the Serbian Parliament. In front of the chairman of the Committee on Economy, I received them and heard them about all their proposals in the work. I think this is one of the proposals put forward by the government now and which Mr Selakovic gave one of the recommendations and cries these trade unions had. What's this about? In the economy, we can't break anything over our knees. Some things you have to consider and always at the end of a whole cycle in the economy pays the last one, and the interest you have, dues from 10 and 20 years ago if you have accepted some debt, you have taxes and contributions from those people who have received resolved court proceedings, which they have charged. Some restructure firms have charged taxes and contributions, and they have not paid the salaries, i.e. severances in an adequate manner, and at this point we as a state do not know what the explicit amount is. Now as a state, we want to know exactly how much we owe a certain number. No one knows how to tell you that number today. Some economists show up in public and say the figure is 1.5 billion euros. We don't know if we're talking about 1.5 billion, one billion or two billion. We need to know now. Secondly, if we're talking about property, we need to know exactly the list of that property. If we forget any arguments, detail, non-bilitional status, non-silence facility, we've done a lot of damage to the state if we don't register that property. Therefore, this part of the amendment and the addition of the Privatisation Act is not only technical and should not be considered as such, but should simply be seen as the beginning of economic reforms, which will only start with a proposal 21 of the legislative solution, which we hope will be before these MPs by the end of May, the beginning of June. Our mission will be to adopt it by the end of July. After all, in all international declarations and in negotiations with the EU, we have committed ourselves to completing the story in an adequate way when we talk about the privatisation process by 30 June 2014. Finally, when we talk about the data that we need to collect in one place and say what we have, we have found that the debt is going on somewhere, that it's three times the value of the company itself in restructuring, that two thirds of that debt by the state's creditors, that's where the costs of the tax administration, the costs of taxes and contributions, the costs of public enterprises for the consumption of electricity and utility, and one part of that applies to commercial creditors. At this point, equating the status of private and state creditors is a big deal. So that part of the Constitutional Court decision, I really think it's moving in that direction that we're all equal before the law, and that equality is all we can guarantee, that we don't damage anyone, that we establish an exact record of who owes who. What we will have for sure on the Committee on Economic Law in the discussion on Monday is that we will continue to discuss these issues. What is important to say is that in these five months, we have a chance to have interested investors, or strategic partners for certain large companies, which are in the restructuring process, in an adequate way to start, or to keep a large number of employees who exist in certain enterprises in restructuring, because that is the desire of every political party located in this Parliament and outside of this Parliament, which is that people work, receive the salary and that those jobs we are talking about are increasing, and we are not reducing. Therefore, these five months are a chance for those people who should simply be employed, if they are to move from the public sector to the private sector, to do so in a certain way in these 150 days, indeed. The question of the accuracy of the data that tells us and gives us a certain chance to form as a state, that is to say, that the statistics that we are constantly talking about, and essentially never finish it by the end, at this point, as far as the privatisation law itself is concerned, I think that we will end when in a certain set of laws that we will have in June and July of the month, I think we will then say that we ended this process and the privatisation period with 30 June. What's certainly true is that the people's awareness of how much they need to be, that we simply want to develop this country, that we want to create new jobs and we want to start a business, to work and to go towards that export orientation, to apply certain new technologies and through the public partnerships of certain companies in restructuring and certain companies, not only in the country, but abroad, we should essentially give us this law. This is only the first step towards Serbia's development policy and the four pillars that Mr. Prime Minister gave in his exposé and we hope that all parties, regardless of which party they may now have certain critical views in this principle debate, will support, regardless of which party they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u880	Thank you. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, and the People's Messenger Aleksandar Peranovic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u881	Dear Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will again at the very beginning that the SPS Parliament Club will support the proposed amendments to the Privatisation Act in the day of the vote. We view this legislative proposal as a transitional, necessary and necessary solution to the adoption of a new law on privatisation, which is, today, absolutely clear and visible, essential. This proposed law has, I would say, very clearly and precisely defined objectives. Just by supporting the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation, we want to support the objectives that they seek to achieve by adopting. True, the fundamental change in this legislative proposal is that companies in the restructuring process will be protected from forced payment from creditors for the next five months. On the other hand, creditors will settle down from the sale price to companies and businesses. In this way, I would say, on the one hand, a process has been defined to exercise trustees' rights in restructuring companies, and on the other hand, it is protected by the minimum state interest. I think that's very important right now. This, I would say, is the necessary compromise of several principles of equal importance and equal importance. When we talk about companies in the restructuring process, of course, we should always keep in mind that this is actually about, as the minister in the opening exhibition said, 164 companies, that this is about 54,000 employees in these companies and that this is about a process that is actually going on for a very long time. The facts themselves speak for themselves enough about the importance and importance of the issues we are talking about today. Although seemingly this change is small and technical, it has for us exceptional importance and outstanding importance. In this context, we, above all, want to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia as a parliamentary club. The government, as far as we are concerned, shows that it wants to lead an active, determined policy, to meet problems, to solve problems, not to leave them aside, to wait for problems to come to some culmination, but to meet problems, to try to offer concrete and realistic solutions always with the wider social consensus, to hear what employers say, to hear opinions and trade unions and, of course, always to protect what is most important to us as representatives of the social democratic option – interests and rights of workers. To be perfectly clear and completely open, that's what we were already talking about, what would happen if we didn't adopt and not talk today about the proposed amendments to the Privatisation Act? Therefore, the Constitutional Court has made it very clear in its decision – since 14 May there has been no more protection from the forced collection of enterprises in restructuring. What would that mean? That would definitely lead to blockades, that would definitely lead to bankruptcy, and that would definitely lead to the bankruptcy of many companies and companies. Again, it is 164 companies and 54,000 employees. I think only 10 businesses in Serbia employ over 20,000 workers. So, this legislative proposal actually creates an opportunity, we give one new chance, hope that in the next five months, the agreements that are currently in this final, final version with potential foreign investors about the privatisation of these companies itself are finalized. This is actually the ultimate goal, to preserve, as the minister said among other things, jobs in companies that have a market perspective. That's the essence of the changes we're talking about today. Among other things, this legislative proposal also gives certain competences and gives a certain role and importance to the Privatisation Agency, in the sense that the Agency is now collecting data, the Agency is now making decisions, i.e. a real restructuring programme. These are all jobs that in some ways do not suffer slowness, do not suffer inertness, and do not suffer the prolonging of deadlines. Therefore, the Privatisation Agency will have to work both faster and more efficiently and more in the next period of time. When it comes to the Privatisation Agency, I just want to say a few sentences that do not specifically concern the legislative proposal that we are talking about today, but it concerns the essence of the existence and establishment of the Privatisation Agency. The privatisation agency, I think, was founded in 2001 as a specialised state institution with clear goals, to initiate, promote, implement and control the privatisation process in Serbia. Each political party has its position on privatisation in Serbia. Our attitude is generally known, we fully agree, and we feel that this and this privatisation is catastrophic, but I don't think about it today. I just want to say one thing. Do not slow down the importance of initiating, implementing and promoting the privatisation process, I think that the Privatisation Agency should and must put the accent on one scale, continuous and comprehensive control of all privatisations made in Serbia during the past period of time. If that is not the case, I think that remaining part of Serbia's healthy economy will unfortunately be destroyed very quickly. To go back to the legal proposal itself. So, we want to support amendments to the Privatization Act. As far as we're concerned, clear goals are to be achieved. They are fully justified to us at this point and this is a transitional solution to the adoption of a new law on privatisation. Also, I would like to say that from what the minister has said in the past time period we fully support the government of Serbia's intention to adopt a set of system laws in the republican parliament by mid-June, because this set of system laws is actually the basis and precondition for further reforms that will follow in Serbia in the coming time period. It is, in fact, an incentive for comprehensive change and change in overall behaviour, above all, in the public sector. This set of legislative proposals, which we expect very quickly in the Republic's parliament, we expect it to be adopted by mid-June. This set of legal proposals, we really believe it, will create a attractive investment destination from Serbia. That, I hope, is our common goal. So Serbia has huge advantages, Serbia has a good geographical position, Serbia borders the EU, Serbia has a duty-free trade arrangement with the Russian Federation and, if this set of legal proposals is adopted, I think those basic preconditions for direct foreign investment and direct foreign investment in our economy and Serbia are created. Reforms are difficult and reforms are painful, but they are necessary, inevitable and at this point are the only possible real solution. We have spoken repeatedly so far that they are both determined and courageous and economic and political move. But there is no sustainable economic development, there is no recovery of the economy, there is no new jobs, there is no positive shift that citizens need to feel which is our common goal, I hope, if we don't adopt a set of system laws and we don't start implementing reforms. When we talk about how painful they are and how difficult reforms are, we should always ask the question on the other side – and how much does it cost us one day or one month or one year of delaying reforms and not adopting system laws? The World Bank loan, direct foreign investment, then the prices at which we will be in debt as a state are just some of the segments and details through which, if we properly analyse them in the period behind us, we can see the negative consequences of not adopting system laws and we can see the negative consequences of not implementing reforms in Serbia. The adoption of system laws is crucial for implementing reforms, and I fully agree with Mr Selakovic. Without these changes, there is neither sustainable economic development nor new jobs in Serbia. Finally, I would like to say that this law will enable, as has already been said, constitutionality, legal certainty and the completion of restructuring. From the above, once again, I would like to point out at the very end, the SPS Parliament Club in Voting Day will support the draft law amending the Law on Privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u882	Thank you. The word has Alexander Peranovic. Let MP Zoran Bojanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u883	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministry gentlemen, fellow MPs, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on privatisation. I come from the city, when you say "Zorca Chemical Industry," you think of the Sabbath right away. Sabac has suffered an economic and industrial collapse over the past 14 years. All companies are privatized in Šapec. There has been an end to all privatisation contracts, to the dismissal of workers, and ultimately to their completion, i.e. the bankruptcy proceedings. I've got to point out that the Shabatz as a leader in the Machuvani County really should be. The city itself has over 100,000 inhabitants, and there are 28% of the unemployed. Only the Zorka chemical industry employed nearly 11,000 workers. After privatisation, only 302 workers now work at Zorka Holding. I have to point out only some companies that have "Zorca Holding" six workers, and "Zorka Security" 21 employees, "Zorka Transport" 66 workers and I have to say that two months ago from "Zorka Transport" sold basic assets, so workers in these companies do not have basic working conditions. Privateised companies "Zorka Plant Protection" no longer operate, and workers are on the labour market. The same thing happened to other companies. The company "Nam" has been sold and workers are on the labour market. ‘Agro-industrial combination of Machva’ is sold, ‘7. July Sabac," of which only land was left, even the halls and plants were destroyed and destroyed. The company "Sava" experienced the same fate, and the hotel "Green Wreath" as a legion was also sold. I have to mention the story just before Minister Selakovic. Indeed, in Serbia, food industries are a miracle that they are not working. We have a Sabbath slaughterhouse that doesn't work, and we all know "The Chapchanka," which doesn't work, and in the halls of that facility, paper towels are now being made. One company that works and which is in a very difficult financial state is "Sabarska mlekara". There are about 350 employees and the biggest problem after privatisation is the constant problem with the payment of basic raw materials, milk, our agricultural producers. Indeed, if we are dealing with this and if we are talking about Serbia being a agricultural country, we cannot allow this. We must not allow one of these brands in the Mačvanski County, even in Serbia, which is now exporting its products to record such losses. Why is this happening? We assume it's management, bad privatisation or some other interests. I must point out that during the rule of the Democratic Party or the previous regime, one favourable political climate was not used that the companies sold, and I can say freely and will agree many here, it was not a sale or privatisation, it was a sale of businesses, that they did not take advantage of any favourable moments to advance the economy of Serbia and industry. I am convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia, despite today's proposal for a law on privatisation, which is one transitional solution in the next 150 days, is working to preserve all these families, all those workers working in these businesses not to go to the streets. For the past 14 years, it was no problem to fire hundreds of thousands of workers, and this government is also considering these 57,000 workers, how to preserve and how to find a solution for all these people? I really think that we should approach one essential problem, start dealing with the cause, that the government is thinking in that way, that we're not dealing with palitative problems, so just to solve the consequences and the cause is not going to be done by someone else. I am truly convinced that this government and the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, have such intentions. I think the state must be actively involved in solving all these problems. A clear policy must be done and we must have clear goals. It's a big problem. Times are difficult, but we must not all be weak and we must not kneel to these problems, because that is not what Serbian citizens expect of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u884	Thank you. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, as an authorised representative of the Democratic Party, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u885	My dear colleague was talking about the time of the Democratic Party's rule and I have the impression that people here in the O.R. have either amnesia or deliberately honor the DS that we've been in power for 12 years and that we've run the Ministry of Economy in this country for 12 years. That, unfortunately, is not true for both of us. On behalf of the Democratic Party, the economy ministry has only been led by Aleksandar Vlahovic for three years, after which he served as minister from the Democratic Party of Serbia. At that time, if I remember correctly, you will correct me if I am wrong, Aleksandar Tomic, a MP who had just criticised the time, was in the Democratic Party of Serbia and praised those measures that were good at the time, and in the last two years the government that existed and which today exists was led by the Ministry of Economy. The question is, when will someone take responsibility for the time we're in? During the time we were in, I will take the opportunity to read the data that exists, respecting what my colleague Martinovic read when there was any privatisation. I'll read you what happened in Serbia's economy from 2000 to 2012, when there was a Renaissance in this economy and what's going on today and when are you going to tell us what's going to happen tomorrow? That's what we're interested in. So, what does the government plan to do tomorrow? Today, the minister's law said that the technical precondition for improvement is for all citizens of Serbia. We agree with that, but it's not enough. It doesn't even take as long as we expected it to be in parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u886	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Babic, head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The difference between the political options we belong to is important. One political option belonging to the former regime is not responsible for everything because it shared the responsibility of both coalitions and quotas and contingents and functions, and now only some others are responsible. In this country for the past 12 years, that is, for the past 14 years as if we've slept over, as if we're in groundhog days, and there's always someone else and someone else who's fictional and when basketball is played with, then he's good and when he listens, then he's good, and when he thinks with his head, he's no longer good. A Serbian advanced party that said it is not running away from responsibility, as I am not running away from responsibility, for the previous government and for the rule of 18 months for all the changes we have made to this country. For those who do not want, who closes their eyes to the truth and to the reality in Serbia, to have a hard time living in Serbia, that there is a high unemployment rate, that the economy almost does not exist, and that we are struggled through the measures we are taking and announced by Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and who will start from next week. Excuse me, please, you've had your chance and you haven't done it, but you'll see from Monday how a billion and two hundred million euros of credit will pump up in the economy under the circumstances and under the rates that are literally donated, because the state of Serbia and interest will subsidise with 60m euros. Who's going to have the funds? He'll go to the economy, go for the promotion of production, go for new jobs. Why, and could you not, encourage employment, and in the period from 2008 to 2012, the number of people in Serbia lost their jobs was doubled? It is now the responsibility of the Serbian Progressive Party why in six months or a year or seven days this government has not put it back. We have a measure for that, too. You will see that measure on Monday, because all those obligations that go to the employer's burden, that is, the employer's burden will now go 30% to the employer's burden, 70% to the state's burden. This measure, with a higher number of jobs, will go to a higher burden on the state, to a lower burden on the employer, and thus we want people in the gray, in the black zone, unemployed, those you took away from the future, to return to legal, normal flows and to hire people. These are the measures Serbia knows about... (Chairman: Please, time.) Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Except for some people who keep their eyes closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u888	National MP Dragan Sutanovac, representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u889	On what basis does a colleague have three minutes for a replica, and you remind me after two minutes? In 2000, Mr Babić, the state of Serbia owed 14,167,000,000 dinars, or euros. In 2012, 14,784,000. Today we owe 21 billion and now you've officially announced another 1.2 billion, so 22.2 billion. In less than two years, you will owe us about 6.5 billion euros and you are telling us about a better life one day when you will show us who lives better in Serbia today in a situation where the debt of the state is 6.5 billion already, and 500m euros have fewer foreign reserves. We've been listening here for two years to what you're going to do. I respect your efforts, whether it's mummoth or whatever you just said, I respect it, but there's no result. Do you understand? You may live better, I don't doubt it, but Serbian citizens are statistically living worse. Salaries are lower, taxes higher, higher editions. Now you've also announced some new subsidies, 70% on the cost of the state. Where does the state collect that income from? Who's going to finance it? Who will help the Arabs build 380 euros square meters in Serbia? Why isn't the domestic construction industry doing this, but some foreigners have to? Why didn't three billion of Al Dahra appear, three billion of Mubadal, four billion of Belgrade's water? So far, you've told me about dozens of billions that aren't there and that's the real state of things. No hard feelings. It's simply the information the finance ministry published on its website, only if you want to change that? I just said I accept all responsibility, but counterpart Tomic supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica whose minister of economy is in prison for poor privatisations. Col. Risticevic supported the government until 2003, which privatised Serbia, and here speaks as if he had been absent from the session when it was spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u890	Right on line, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Babic. That closes the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u891	Who supported him in Serbia, at which time and which minister is in prison, I think it's such a slippery topic for you, Mr. Sutanovac, that I would avoid her if I were you. I don't want to talk about people from previous governments, who are in some litigation and some court proceedings and permanent patients of a special court for organised crime, because that way I don't want the policy to get involved in the judiciary, which I absolutely don't have the right and I don't want these processes to be burdened with any comment, but I also ask you to stick to that direction, because I think it's very slippery of your political option. When you asked the questions you asked, you asked them here and with that data you were coming out when the Prime Minister was there, and when he brought out the right data for the duties, I think you got out of the O.R., Mr. Sutanovac and gave up those data that could be commented in one way or another, but in the same way I can ask you, and I pulled out the data here for those 1% of successful privatisations or of 2266 of these 28 successful ones, the state was incometing and so successful government, which, despite that kind of income, when you're selling a piece by piece, sell furniture from the house, sell the jewelry that have been left to you by generations and the rules before that, and you've sold those 28 successful ones, you've earned $1,46500,000, but for the same money you left 10,000 people outside of the same company, you've lost their jobs. What are these values obtained for that money? Is the infrastructure built? Have new investments been made? Are these people employed elsewhere? What's made of all that? Mr. Sutanovac, I live more normally, and at the time of the ministry, you began to live an immeasurably better life than the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u892	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Assembly for vacant seats in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Election of the People's Ambassadors finds confirmation of the mandate to the following MPs: Dejan Capu, elected from the electoral list "Boris Tadic NDS, "Green", LSV Nenad Canak, "Together for Serbia", VMDK, Together for Vojvodina, Democratic Left Roma", then Ivica Jevtic, Vesni Simic, Dejana Nectarijević, Vladi Babić, Sanji Tucaković, Goran Vukadinović and Dragan Todorovic, selected from the electoral list "Alexadar Vukic – Future in which we believe" by SNS, Social Democratic Party of Serbia, NS, SP, Socialist Movement, as well as Mirjana Dragaš, Gredani Banac, Mr Dejan Radenković and Neđa Jovanovic, selected with the choice of "SPS", "S PUS", "S. On the basis of the RIC decision and the report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Dejan Capo, Ivica Jevtic, Vesna Simic, Dejana Nektarijević, Vladi Babić, Sanji Tucaković, Goran Vukadinović, Dragan Todorovic, Mirjana Dragas, Grozdani Banac, Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Neđa Jovanovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u893	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, above all, to congratulate all incoming colleagues and colleagues, there is only one bypass or moment ahead of us to come to a comprehensive solution, to a comprehensive Privatisation Act, which we will surely bring for the next 30 to 35 days, we will certainly not wait five months, how long all this has been proposed. What are we peddling for and what are we going to adopt this for? We will adopt that companies that are already in a difficult situation, which have been brought to the bottom, do not make it more difficult not to shut them down. It's everything that's happened, and here many speakers have been saying, from 2001 to 2012, and they've led to 164 enterprises having been restructured and rarely having any of them or having a strategic partner. I don't want to say what the predecessors said before me. I only mention examples from my city, from the King, where at this point we have four companies, and these are two large, former giants of the old Yugoslavia – Magnochrom and the Car factory Kraljevo, as well as the natural spa and resort of Matarushka and Bogotovačka Banja and the transport company “Autotransport”. I argue, since for months now, I have been talking to Mr. Secretary of State and Madam Secretary of State Michel, who is not here, about the problems of these companies, that there are solutions for such enterprises and that there are strategic partners, and that there is above all the will of the Serbian state, or these governments to survive and to preserve certain capacities. If someone had thought about all these privatisations in the previous period, they would have thought well about selling the Second World War, selling the technical school in the Kingdom, selling the city stadium in the Kingdom, as well. Because of all of this, all of our proposals, including today, are good, because that's exactly what we need to solve, to know what state property is, what city property is, what the property of the company that's going to go to privatisation. I hope, for that good part, for a good and successful privatisation. When I mentioned just before the natural spa and the Matarushka resort and the Bogotovačka spa, by shutting down such an enterprise, we would have put out two spas that have centuries-old tradition and Bogotovačka and Mataruska Banje, because both of which are 90% bound and live right from the natural spa and resort, which have been translated these days into company status in restructuring, otherwise, until recently there was a company that was in some state-of-the-art process. I don't think it's the only spa that's involved. Because of what my predecessors have said, because of these few words I have dedicated to the businesses of my city, I have not mentioned "Magnochrom", where privatisation is certainly done, we are talking about particization here, just as particization and where the funds that need to be questioned and traced and finished have been pumped, and to mention that in the privatisation process and in the sale of Magnochrom, the whole complex, a whole line has been cut up, sold in old iron and in the neighbouring country is installed and is now operational. Let's look into all that. I think we'll finish this privatisation process when we get to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u894	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, if necessary, the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours today, given the need for the National Assembly to bring an act from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u895	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I come from Valjev from a city that, in the late 1980s and until the early 1990s, was a powerful industrial city in which more than 20,000 people were employed in production and, unfortunately, today, only a few thousand are working in manufacturing companies. It appears that the sunflower of the Valjev economy began in 2000. Until then, she did what she did, but the word transition, which in my opinion was a different name for the robbery and devasting of state and social firms, played a key role in breaking up Valjev companies such as Krusik, such as "Serbian", such as "Stefil", such as "The Kozara", such as "The City", such as "The City", and many others that I would not mention now. By the 1990s, Krusik himself had over $100m of exports, saying everything the city had and the production capacity it had. The bill, or government, is a bitter drug that we must drink to heal, but what we must no longer allow is this looting, burazeric, as someone says, privatisation and we cannot possibly forget what was going on. I hope that this proposal from the government will, I'm sure, bear fruit, but what is very important is one fact that anyone who forgets how they privatised these 12 years of companies in Serbia is their accomplice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u896	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u897	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, as my colleague Zarko Obradovic advises me, I will try to make my impressions in a shorter presentation than an hour and a half. I'm kidding. I'll be brief, and I'll try not to repeat everything my predecessors have repeated. How can we characterize the situation we are in, regarding this issue and many other issues? We can go through that people's room. We've got the Emperor to the tobacco store. What do you do now? Now we are in a situation where we can no longer tell – let it remain for a new congregation majority to solve these problems. What brought us into this situation? In my opinion, bad personnel solutions. It used to be known in our country, at least about the economy, who hairs and who wears water, but there were times when people who didn't even have professional qualifications came to important and responsible places, who had little or insufficient moral qualifications and, worse still, there was no control. While they were in power, they could do whatever they wanted and lead us to the state in which we are now. I hope that time is behind us and that such a situation will no longer be repeated, especially today that I have on several occasions convinced myself that there is good will. What convinced me? Mr. Minister has proposed to all, who are ready, who are able to make a good proposal and that he and the government will accept such a proposal in resolving this issue and others. There was a very positive example, Col. Komic, who pointed out the possibility that what we are doing here today, or the amendments to the laws that we are going to make, would be challenged in the future. It is up to all of us to try to solve with common forces all of these accumulated problems that have arisen in time backwards, regardless of what has led to these problems. One of his colleagues mentioned that some of the MPs were in various majority during the previous period. Political parties are living organisms and it is perfectly normal that this fluctuation of members of one party to another party comes. That's what's going on with us. There's no problem. That's no reason for us to try to transfer to someone what was going on before. I hope we bring these amendments to the law and that we will be able to solve the accumulated problems very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u898	The word is Velinka Tosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u899	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I come from Loznica, a small town on the banks of the Drina River, western Serbia. I just want to point out the results of all the current privatisation laws and their application. Today, some 90,000 inhabitants live in the area of the Loznica municipality. In the 1980 ’ s, there were some 24,000 employees, and today the situation is somewhat different and far more painful. Today I work half that number and we have half that number that works somewhere in the public sector. Since 2000, only one foreign investor has come to Loznica, which employs about 500 people, although an industrial area of about 80 hectares was built in the late 1990s. This is all a reflection of poorly implemented privatisations, but also of the absence of any effect of the republican and local authorities since 2000 when the attraction of investment and such an economy in Loznica has been questioned. For years, we have received complaints from citizens about the privatization carried out with a request that the investigative authorities be involved, because someone is responsible for the fact that thousands of Loznica workers are out of work. It sounds grotesque, but basically devastating that Loznica builds squares, promenades, parks while most of the population lives on the edge of existence or overruns it. There is no example of successful privatisation in Loznica, and almost as a rule each of them ended in bankruptcy or liquidation. I'm just going to name one number of companies, although there's nothing left in Loznica. FAC, it's a auto-tractor brake factory. It was a big factory, which was really huge. The construction company "Zidar", the "Moda", the water company "Loznica", the agricultural good "Loznica", "Loznica" transport, the mines "Zajaca", "First May" Lesnica, the hotel-tourism company "Banja Koviljača", is one special spa, the beauty of Serbia, the beauty of my neighborhood, the commercial company "Drina – Jadar". For the end, I left the Viskoza factory that built and built Loznica in its own time. There used to be 10,000, but according to the latest lists, there were 12,000 people, which means that Viskoza fed the municipality of Loznica. Today, this factory is a house of horrors and horrors. If anyone passes the path from Loznica to Banja Koviljaca, they'll see that house of horrors and horrors. He'll only get a chance to see the walls. There's no roof. There's no window. That's where the chimneys come off. There's absolutely nothing there, there's no equipment, everything's out, it's taken away. Just to clarify, it was set on fire a few years ago, so it threatened an ecological disaster. There are problems of a different nature here in our city, that I'm not talking about it now, when the time comes. This time, during all these privatisations, my city remained empty. It's got 18,000 people out of work. That's devastating. I'm not saying it's the only city in Serbia, but every city loves it its own way and wants that city to be a city of the future. I really don't know what kind of beauty we're talking about and good previous laws and privatisations when we really came into a situation like this. The only thing left intact is the Viskoza factory is the BOP factory, which is a packing foil factory. She's privatized, so that privatisation has been annulled, and as far as I currently have the information, that this factory is being sold again. If that factory was launched, it's intact, the complete equipment is in it, it could start working somewhere around 500 workers. Now we wonder – how was it all so beautiful and how it was all good, how others did when we lived in Loznica. Every city has its face and looks but this looks the face of my city and there people are not happy and satisfied. There are not so many smiles on the faces especially of young people who have lost their jobs in transition and that is the result of all these privatisations. I wouldn't have any more black thoughts if I said something here. I've said enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u900	The word is Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u901	Dear presidents, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues, each story looks like one another. Our Serbia is what we heard and a people who don't remember the past can't even create a future. So, I have to do a little dyspression. I come from a city that was the fifth city in the old Yugoslavia in the 1990s, first after Belgrade in Serbia, from the town of Kruševec, which, unfortunately, since a few years ago is a devastated area. In Kruševec, except for a few companies, all companies are in restructuring. What is very devastating is that companies are of great importance in restructuring and companies that are very important for the defence of our country, which are "14. October and Last means the dedicated industry in particular. They're also the most threatened by this law that we want to change today and I think we're going in the right direction. We need to give a chance to management that started working, who started looking for strategic partners, and as it seemed in some previous period, I'm only going to tell you because we said that numbers talk a lot more than anything else. In 1998, 1999, Kruševac had 45,000 employees, so each third man worked out of the total population. He had 30,000 employees in primary production, so every quarter. Today Kruševac has 15,000 employees, slightly less than 15,000 of them, in the name of primary production only 3,000. So every 40s. We don't need to take that away from them. We have to give them a chance, and I think that the way we did in the last two years, and in Kruševec there was a lot of work, and unlike some other cities, a smile was brought back to people's faces. Something's changed, it's started, we have to give it a chance, and "14. October and Traila to rise from the ashes and go and hire people. We need to make such a program to get those people and those highly qualified masters to work in the right way. If he can't go to state firms, then the private sector. We should also allow privates to make good money, hire people, get them out of the gray zones and invest in the country. It's the only way we can move forward and provide our children with a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u902	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u903	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, the Honorable Mr. Minister, as someone to whom I foresee a large professorial career at the Faculty of Law, you are certainly familiar, Mr. Minister, with the great theory set up by Professor Živojin Peric and according to which the Faculty of Law bears the name of an amphitheatre, and that is very nice, and that is the famous theory of unresolved and unresolved legal issues. For those who don't know, they're the ones who can get rid of them, and they're the ones who can't get rid of them. Because of the burdens we carry on these companies, I am afraid that enterprises in restructuring are slowly entering these unresolved legal issues. The logical question arises, given that no one has wanted to solve it for years, what do you do? You can't leave so many people on the street, and on the other hand, you can't put money in something that doesn't work anymore. I understand some of the previous ones. They allegedly subsidized the companies to buy votes for future elections and did not want to deal with these problems at all. They were putting up boards, where people were getting payouts, they were breaking state money, and it's a good thing somebody broke it up. I have to admit, it's an honor to have someone deal with this, this is very unpopular. The adoption of a new Privatisation Act is announced. I have to admit, I'm glad the SNS announces in advance that he's going down on his ratings. What's going to happen isn't popular, and we just have to do something like that if we're going to save the country. To be honest, Mr. Selakovic, I'd prefer it if you never had to come here to defend one of these laws, but it's simply something that's necessary. This is a situation like saving a strangler and extending his life. It's been five months since we've tried something. You've said well, God forbid we save at least five companies. Someone hasn't saved any for years, and today we have 160 and something. We heard the 2600 and some privatisations were done, and only 28 of them were successful. The privatisations that were otherwise conducted here were a classic example of kidnappings, bank grabs. By the way, let's not speak this from the SNS, but from the European Commission, based on Mrs Verice Barac's report. Of the 24 privatisations, whose investigations have just been completed, is something the European Commission has said we should carry out. So, in the EU itself, they know what's been going on here, and I think it should be a little embarrassing for all of us to experience it. So today you have as many street workers as you want who demand some of their rights, and understandably neither Alexander Vukic nor Nikola Selaković nor Zoran Babic, nor anyone. Not guilty or indemnity today, we have to deal with this, and that's why we're going to have to experience a low-down on the ratings, but there's a lot of trouble with heroes. That's a big SNS feature. That's very nice to meet you. What I have to admit is to hear here that some are calling for constitutionality, to see if something is against the constitution. I apologize, when the Privatisation Act was passed in 2001, social property was abolished by that law. I don't mind. I'm not a supporter of a socialist relic, but after the then valid Constitution, social property existed. Someone's done something like that with the law. He was knowingly violating the Constitution at that point, and he's not even blinking, and I'm not talking about why you couldn't evaluate the constitutionality of such an act at the time because the Constitutional Court didn't exist. A few years, it seems to me, he didn't work at all, and you couldn't complain about the constitutionality of an act anywhere. We're talking about democracy and respect for the Constitution. There's really a question of what to do, what's the alternative. I repeat, this is something we've been forced to do, something we have to do. So, of course, like all SNS MPs, I'm going to vote for this, but again, if we were smarter, if someone had acted domestically here, if it hadn't been for the company to privatize so that Shariæi are sold agricultural combinations, etc., I believe we would never have come to this situation. I hope we can get out of this somehow and wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u904	The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u905	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the word not only as a People's MP, but also as a resident of the municipality of Trstenik and as a worker of the factory "First Five-year-old". The first five-year-old is one of 164 enterprises in restructuring. The company that is in the area of the machinery industry is leading the Balkans and the company that employs 3,200 workers. Three thousand and two hundred workers mean 3,200 families and if we count four members, about 12,000 people depend on the work of this factory. This is what I want to put an accent on the importance of this company, its importance to the workers, to the Trieste municipality and to the entire Rasinski district. This proposal amending the Privatisation Act avoids bankruptcy, at the moment offers a new chance for new privatisation and allows these companies to have survival and extend their work and life. Also, it will be done to record claims and clean balances for positive business companies and draw a line. This is not just a mere extension of deadlines, this is an opportunity for workers not to end up on the street and try to find the best solution for enterprises in restructuring. I'm going back to "The First Five-year-old." It is a company that has seven production factories, four that positively operate and three others have that possibility in a certain reorganisation and understanding of the state. I fully support this proposal from the government and, of course, I will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u906	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u907	Ladies and gentlemen, the first item of this new session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is certainly an amendment to the Law on Privatisation. There is no harder law for the state of Serbia and its employees than this law and there is no doubt that the public of Serbia is completely unique when it comes to it. They are unique today and MPs in the republic's parliament when they tell you – the whole of Serbia is in the privatisation process today. I don't want to talk about it. I want to tell you what problems the Government of the Republic of Serbia was facing when it was trying to pass such a law, a law that practically changes the essence of functioning and the current way of functioning in the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia is in a completely economic problem and when this government adopts such a law, in fact it is not the law and it is not the Government in the problem, it is not this Assembly that has to decide on such a law. The whole state of Serbia and its inhabitants are in trouble. Serbia's macroeconomic policy has completely dissipated Serbian society and has made the Serbian state what we live in today, where each of us individually, from MPs to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, suffers the consequences. The macroeconomic problems in Serbia have been due to the functioning of Serbia's state without applying economic laws in the last 50 years. That's the point. Some MPs before us in the last 50 years have passed economic laws that had no basis for classical economic theory, and this today has a situation in which we are currently in place. They sometimes applied them, sometimes they didn't bring them, and what's very common, they brought new revolutionary ideas for which no one in Serbia has ever received a more significant economic reward, but certainly they have applied them. The whole system of functioning, non-application, partial application and new revolutionary ideas that did not produce any results has led Serbia to the brink of economic collapse. Restructure companies are actually just one economic experiment. An economic experiment from previous governments, which we today must tolerate. What exactly is this about? These are not decisions concerning neither economy, these are not decisions concerning nor social policy, but mostly the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done a classic story that every country can do, which was redistributing income. She made redistribution of income from fiscal incomes belonging to all citizens of Serbia, for one particular group of enterprises, i.e. employees in them and thus in the long term disrupted the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia. Are the enterprises in restructuring founded in economic practice, in classical and applied theory? Of course not. Have these decisions concerning restructure companies led to fiscal gains for the state of Serbia? Of course not, even more economic gain, of course not. In fact, all this has happened because these companies in which we overrun fiscal income from the Serbian state have lost their competitive capacity and this has led us to the situation that currently or in the long term these companies are left without their capital, and that capital practically implies that its owner, or the state of Serbia, can no longer function. Behind the completely pragmatic decisions that we today support, behind a completely realistic stance, is real life, the life of 52,000 Serbian citizens who live and work in these public enterprises. Today when you talk about these public enterprises, you have to understand one fact, that they never, even though they were the backbone of this society's growth and development, have achieved a fundamental and economic gain for this society. It is that they lived in a relatively closed economic system, where the state of Serbia or some other state before us has always subsidized, or defended their monopoly position, and this was the result of pure state regulation. In the whole story, of course, the consequences for Serbia's fiscal system are devastating and not just today. All this loss of capital in the old comes from the fiscal incomes of previous generations and generations living today and certainly is not responsible for all citizens of Serbia. Today and in the future when the government of the Republic of Serbia speaks about the macroeconomic problems of these companies, it will talk about two groups of problems. The first group of problems concern the bad business decisions made by the administration of each of these individual companies and these bad business decisions have accumulated, and today we have come to a situation where, according to the balance sheets and balance sheets, these companies actually have negative capital. The second group responsible for these companies is certainly a political elite in Serbia that has been sending a message too long that such a way of functioning can bring economic gain. Of course she has to break up with each other. This is the essence of where the government of the Republic of Serbia will function. It will function in the huge problems that have been shared for each of us individually, who has a personal interest, its revenues, come from the fiscal incomes of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that the state of Serbia is now in the economic situation in which it is located. This economic situation is due to a lack of fiscal income, and it consists of two groups of problems. The first group of problems are found in the fact that public expenditures in the Serbian state were too high compared to GDP for years, simply that gap between public revenues and realistic revenues was filled with foreign sources. We came all the way here. Another group of problems, concerning fiscal revenues that can be realised at the moment. Remember, from the real sector, which is fiscally overloaded, because obligations are narrowed and this fiscal overload leads to a lack of competitive capacity for these companies, and therefore fiscal revenues are becoming less and less. Of course, this law implies that the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia will not forget and will not put aside employees who are socially at risk and who need help, but all of them should be aware that the state of Serbia, because it extends this deadline, has a waste of its resources and has a waste of time. Business management of restructure companies is the essence of future decisions, if anything can be fixed at all. These are the leaderships that have brought businesses into this situation and I would certainly recommend to the government of the Republic of Serbia, not as a government that should essentially take care of it, but as the owner of the assets of these companies to take care of the functioning of these business managements. Not only because this is important because of social policy towards employees, but also because of the fiscal policy that the state of Serbia needs to change and is important because of the loss of capital that can arise if it still exists in these companies. In fact, such a bill is currently a picture of the economic situation that is ruling in Serbia, an economic picture that no one wants, which we all want to change. We need time for these changes. That's the time this country doesn't have. This government of the Republic of Serbia must be at least a little more successful than the previous governments for one simple reason -- if it fails, Serbia will not survive economically, and thus neither will Serbian society.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u908	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, and let Professor Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, today's proposal to amend the Law on Privatisation of the SNS wants to show willingness to deal with the accumulated problems in the country, wants to show that it is ready to start solving these problems, but also to take responsibility for resolving the situation in the country, and in accordance with the electoral will of the citizens we have had the opportunity to see in the previous elections. Since 2000, about 2,300 companies and companies have been privatised in Serbia. The percentage of failed privatisations is unfortunately extremely high. What is characteristic of privatisations in Serbia and what we can find in each report is an extremely high level of corruption. Decently speaking - a suspicious origin of money, and correctly said - the possibility of various criminals and tycoons or so on. Converse businessmen wash their money, buy some company for cheap money, and get into a situation to make Serbian citizens sick. Companies were bought without a plan to continue production, but for individuals to reach business locations, to access attractive properties that would then be mortgaged and from certain banks that have been acquired in bankruptcy today, and we have witnessed daily affairs that have shown how and how Serbian citizens have been robbed in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS is constantly focused on fighting corruption and this concept has been applied in the past government and will also be applied in this government. We get confessions from both the world and the citizens, which is more than obvious. Privatisation must also be observed in a broader sense. We will be persistent never to repeat the negative effects and negative results that are reflected in thousands of citizens who have lost their jobs, without existence, destroyed economy, and a spoiled reputation in the world, but also in the introduction of distorted moral principles, that honest work and knowledge is not paid off, and that thieving can go unpunished. Unfortunately, some, and to the satisfaction of all ordinary citizens of Serbia, the practice is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u910	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u911	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Selakovic, I am pleased to see you here in this high house. You of all ministers of the former government were the most in this assembly, according to my record 33 times, which speaks of your activity, as well as the respect of this high home and the citizens of Serbia. Today we have on the agenda amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. The privatisation process began as a worldwide process more than twenty years ago initiated in the United Kingdom by Margaret Thatcher. As you can see, the process is global, and it has affected not only the former Socialist countries and developing countries, but also developed countries. All governments were in a hurry to get rid of state-owned enterprises, although some still hesitate to use them a little more for their own gain. As for Serbia, the first wave of privatisation was launched by the federal government of Ante Markovic in 1989, with a correction in 1990. Serbia passed its own Law on its own transformation in 1991. This process, with amendments and additions to the law several times, as we can see, continues to this day. The new government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, has already paid exceptional attention to the problem in the exposé. Of all the governments in Serbia from 1805 to today, and during that period, so over 209 years, Aleksandar Vukic is the 73th head of the executive government, the exposé of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic is the most fundamental, comprehensive, and with a precisely established plan and programme of government in all fields of life and work, as well as in the field of privatisation. This is what gives us confidence, not only to the MPs, but to all citizens of Serbia. It is precisely in the referendum that the aggressive privatisation of state property, as well as the definition of ways and the creation of an appropriate legal framework to address the business's restructuring issues. Serbia currently has, as you said, 164 enterprises in restructuring, and their situation is mostly economically unsustainable. The direct and indirect cost of the state amounts to more than $800m a year from these companies. The priority of the state must be to protect workers in this process and to find a strategic investor for one part of the company, for which the government has defined itself in its exposé of Mr. Vukic. The state's focus, the prime minister said in the exposé, should also focus on those companies that can employ a large number of workers and who have chances of profitable business. The government will take special care of our state-owned enterprises that are at the time in bad shape. Every year, these companies lose, as I said, over 800 million paid by all Serbian citizens. Some of these companies don't make anything worth selling. Some of them have a sustainable business model, but they're being mishandled, mismanagement. Some of them used to make individuals rich by pouring out a large number of funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the amendment and addition of this Privatisation Act is that enterprises in restructuring will be protected from forced collection for another five months. In fact, they put themselves in the same position of state and private trusts and establish a moratorium for forced collection by the end of the year. This law belongs to a set of laws relating to the reform of our economy, i.e. the way our economy will function, which is one of the three fundamental tasks that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be committed to, and defined by our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in his exposé. I am also taking the opportunity to give him the support of a large number of Serbian citizens, and in particular the works of the intellectual public, to persist in implementing reforms, for which we MPs are also giving him unselfish support. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this bill is a technical prerequisite for the adoption of system reform laws, as Mr Selakovic said, I urge you, especially from the opposition, to cast your vote on this law in the day of voting and thus participate in the process of economic reforms, defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the majority of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u912	I thank Professor Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u913	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, I believe that today was a quality debate in which everyone presented, to say, the sighting of the situation and the fact that there are 167 enterprises in the restructuring that we need to get out of this crisis in which they are located. The fact is that we lose $750 million every year, and imagine what we could do with that money if we pump that money into a healthy economy, into the sound foundations of our society and the system that we want to establish in our country. The priority of the state will certainly be the protection of workers and we have heard a lot about this subject in the exposé of the prime minister of our government. Fifteen years have waited for privatisation and for the end of the process, but we haven't seen that the previous governments really understood their work and everything they said, most of it almost, most of it didn't even meet. What's important, and that's that we have 2,266 privatisations of it, every fourth failed, so over 500 privatisations, and that's why it's really hard to listen to DS when they're saying what's going to happen in five months. Gentlemen, we've seen what's happened in the last 15 years and actually during the DS, and since Mr. Sutanovac was the only one here today to defend DS and apparently the other officials have more to do, because of course they don't care at all about what's going on in the Serbian economy, because while she was healthy and while they had what to rob, they were there, and now they've got a little bit more work to do with power in their own party. But the point is, at that time, like Mr. Zivkovic, who was more out of the O.R. today than he was in the O.R., and for two hours, his credit card was in the machine, even though he wasn't here, he wasn't even in the government he was in in 2003. The bottom line is that every day since 2000, privatisations have failed here, but private firms of those who conducted these privatisations have grown and flourished every day. That is why we also have Dragan Gilas, who is a billionaire in this country, who participated in the privatisation, more specifically, with people who were in the privatisation, who conducted the privatisation, led Belgrade to abnormally large debts of a billion euros. What is also important to emphasize because we have heard representatives of DS say – and what will happen to FAP? I would just like to remind everyone in this room that the City of Belgrade made one purchase two years ago where we bought 200 buses and I saw neither the will nor the wish of the former mayor of Belgrade, or the representative of the DS, to order at least five buses from that FAP, even if they had made those buses in 10 years, but to show concern for the Serbian economy, to show care for the FAP, because I see you now worry that the FAP will survive. In fact, with one responsible SNS policy, FAP won't fail we'll try to put the company on its good feet. But then we have the same situation in a Belgrade-based company called Icarbus. Is it possible that you have not granted yourself that when the 65m-euro purchase was conducted, at least get five buses from Icarbus so that people who work in Zemun have a chance to survive, get the salaries they earn and work for eight, even 10 hours a day, to make a Serbian product that can be used in our country and abroad. No, we took a foreign producer 65 million from the loan we gave to someone, because it was the only way that the past Belgrade government was treated, and also the pre-run government in which the actor was Mirko Cvetkovic. What is important is to note, which is that this is just a technical part of this law, that the Privatisation Act will follow over the next few months and that it will have several segments to deal with and which we will try to improve, which is primarily about the completion of privatisation, that we know more when that deadline is, because today we have heard representatives of the opposition who will not support this technical change, but that is why both in 2001 and 2003 and 2005 and in 2007 and 2010, they successfully supported it because it was not five months, it was almost 13 years. At the time, nothing was a problem for them, which was 13 years for Serbia, which was completely destroyed by an irresponsible, populist, corrupt policy. Also, the law will boost economic growth and we will define the role of the state in the privatisation process itself. What is important, and this is that the formed body in front of the Serbian government will be completely professional, that we will root out policy from public enterprises and in implementing more precisely the path of their destiny, which will certainly bring a better result, because wherever politics gets involved there we have seen the results. There's a difference in SNS, as you can see with non-party personnel, as you can see in most commissions, are actually people who are professional who don't have to be in any party and we're proud of it. Mr Sutanovac said Serbia is in charge of 21 billion euros. Yeah, but we're not hiding it either. We said we owed five or six billion to pay back, service certain debts. We're not hiding that we're going to be in debt, and we're going to withdraw another part of the funds so that we can service your 10% interest, or 13% that you've been taking years back, because you bought social peace and you should never have come into a situation to accept responsibility and to tell the truth. The citizens rated SNS policy as a policy of honesty, a policy of truth, because we said what the situation was and we admitted responsibility for what we might have done if we were guilty of certain things. He also hopes that in the next period and this change of law will actually bring something that we haven't had before. Since you're accusing that only now will certain requests of the trustee be established. Yeah, but since 2003, no one's done that. Well, yeah, in the next 30 days, we'll know how much we owe, how many people have certain claims, and we'll finally bring the system into our country. Please, only DS doesn't lecture on privatisation because almost 28 successful privatisations, 500 failed privatisations. We received, as you announced that the economic crisis would be a strategic opportunity for Serbia. We got instead of the 200,000 jobs you promised, 200,000 people on the street, and that's actually your policy, and I'm really not surprised that there aren't any more DS representatives here, because you wouldn't have anything to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u914	Thank you. The People's MP Dragan Sutanovac has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u915	I thank the chairman. Dear gentlemen and ladies, I am probably the only one in this room that was in both the FAP and the Jumko and the Krusik and the Freedom, the First Partisan and many other factories, and I know what the situation was in 2008 and I know what the situation was in 2012. The minister was here, to say the most honorable when he said you had a potential solution. You have a potential solution for something that you created as a problem, because that FAP was working. The Department of Defense just ordered trucks from FAP. The Department of Defense just developed a new truck in the flag trucks. You stopped that project, too. The defence ministry, i.e. the Serbian and Post Office, has been spreading uniforms in "Jumku" which has been on strike since 1 January this year, and the last four years have doubled salaries. Productivity, which was two to three months a year, jumped to 90% a year. So I'm not going to talk about phrases, populism, demagogy, privatizations you say Dragan Gilas participated in. Tell me exactly what privatisation Dragan Gilas took part in. Nor will I accuse you of anything that is not true. I also understand, I don't know if it's a matter of culture, education, lack of understanding of mathematics, if you borrow five and a half billion to pay back your old debts, then you owe it the same way you did before. If you borrow five and a half billion and you jump from 14.5 to 21.5 then it's not due to the repayment of old debts, it's a new loan. If you're talking about domestic producers, I'm interested in how much participation domestic producers will have in that Belgrade on water given in the palm of the Arabs. Where's the Serbian industry, construction. Which is why you're offering our land to Al Dahri. Which is why Mubadala has to take up space in India with nothing... . (President: Time.) ) Just before Mr. Babic spoke for three minutes and you let him. You can go 15 seconds through this now. It's not exactly collegiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u916	I didn't chair, and I'm asking you to stick to the time limit. Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u917	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you, some MPs, not to underestimate all present in the hall. So when someone says, I'm the only one in this room who was, and then count the companies, and the rest of us weren't anywhere and we don't know anything. Until a year and a half ago, everything was fantastic. When FAP, Jumko, Krusik and everyone you've listed worked so well, why don't they do market business? Why isn't FAP exporting trucks? Why aren't there three, four thousand employees? When it was so great in Jumku that your staff led, why did the workers of Jumka come out and block the highway? Yes, we've destroyed everything. He used to run honey and milk. Chairman, I'm only asking that MPs do not earn while I speak, because I will be forced to throw them as they speak, and that is not at the level of my decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u918	I'm asking you not to throw it away. Ambassador Sutanovac, please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u919	And that's it, we destroyed everything, everything was great, I just don't know how the citizens didn't recognize that everything was so great, and how did it bother the citizens that 400,000 people on the street were left in four years? I'm asking you not to stain our eyes. First you said we'd be surrounded by the global economic crisis. Then you said that we would strengthen in the global economic crisis, that it would never hit us. She didn't hit us at all. I highly respect, respect and appreciate the individual MPs of your party who report and discuss here very well, very well, very well, very well, not cheaply. Please don't say that to people here. I'm from around southwestern Serbia who created FAP and you found me talking about how well FAP worked. You found me talking about it, and I'm telling you that it was a few years ago when a single trailer, not a truck, didn't come out of FAP within the last 15 years. It is one of the few cities that has experienced an extremely strong depopulation, the departure of the population from there. Compare the results of two lists and you'll see. But FAP isn't just a Priboj. FAP is also a foundry in Prepolje. Did something really work here? I remember working there was a textile combination "Ljubisa Miodragovic", where there were close to three and a half thousand employees. And it's suddenly gone. Not only do we list businesses from the region, there are other parts in Serbia. Don't tell fairy-tale citizens how everything worked so well and then this awful evil party came to power that destroyed it all. I think it's absolutely incorrect. It's an insult to the citizens of Serbia. Citizens gave their convincing vote for the government, and on the results of some previous governments' work, they also gave their assessment and vote. We can exchange our views here, our opinions, but don't insult the elemental intelligence of citizens. Citizens living in these areas where these companies have been squirming in problems for many years. There are entire branches of businesses that are almost absolutely destroyed in Serbia. How is it possible that we have a completely destroyed leather industry? How is that possible? The industry that exported its products from Serbia at times and sanctions and wars. What happened? And on the other hand, we have a decade-long story about agriculture, development and warfare and livestock. Yeah, I said, we have potential partners. You didn't even have potentials. What's the problem now? We have potential partners who are willing to help us find a solution. Is that going to be easy? It won't be easy at all. Is that country going to have to take a burden on itself? They'll have to. It's not easy for anyone to bring an investor into their country and bring an investor who's going to make trucks in a city where there's no highway, in a town where there's only a one-wheel rail? Why was FAP built there? Well, at some point, it was a strategic move to make three republics, but in a situation like this today, find an investor? A colleague, Jovičić, mentioned the case of “Ikarbus”. What kind of concern are you talking about these companies? Buses from a foreign producer were purchased in Belgrade. Today, when you ask your director "Icarbus" at the time, what was the effect of this on the business of "Icarbus" with us, he will tell you that it was a death blow. What kind of privatisation was Dragan Gilas taking part in? Well, he took part in the privatisation of Belgrade. This is what privatisation took part in, and individuals from his party had previously participated in the attempt to privatise Serbia, and it was only better for them at the end. I am proud to have come to the Government of the Republic of Serbia 20 months ago and that in the last 20 months my property card has not changed. The state of Serbia would be proud to say so for the previous ministers of the previous governments, but unfortunately it cannot, for them or for their families. Please, especially this government, which has been on duty for a little longer than two weeks, do not lecture on this subject, the first government that has presented a system plan to resolve many difficult and painful issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u920	I thank you, Minister Selakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u921	The Rules of Procedure of 107 have been broken because, in the address, the MP has the right to address no other MP, not any fiction or imagination, but the president or the chairman. What made you accept that another MP was telling you that you destroyed, destroyed the FAP or I don't know how many companies he was in? I really don't understand it from you, but I'm willing to take you and the gentleman who gave you this kind of criticism, to the Magnochrom, to the car factory, to show the cut-off machines, the cut-off halls that are empty, to the Vitojevac in Vranjak Banja, to the RAD, liquidated, non-existent, in "The first five-year-old," in "14. October", in the ‘Electronic Industry’ from Nis. I'm ready to take you to those factories. I'm ready to take a look at those empty halls. Besides, we don't bring judgment here. The court on good or bad politics brings citizens to the polls and brings on 16 March. The citizens said -- no more of the destructive policy led by the Democratic Party, which has now barely crossed the censorship. Those who, in the Democratic Party's view, have ruined all of this, received a semi-half support from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a court to be measured. It's a court we care about, not the opinion or excursions of some former ministers who mourn the benefits they had at the time they were ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u922	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I didn't notice that the MP of the Sutanovac had spoken to anyone directly and that he had violated the Rules of Procedure. He explained and provided one analysis that was related to amendments and amendments to the law. Do you want the National Assembly to declare this? No, I don't. Thank you. We're closing a circle of replicas. (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. I'm closing a circle of replicas. Please don't throw me out of my place. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u923	What you're doing right now is not appropriate. It's a violation of article 107. What's this about? To recognize myself in a speech, and directly speaking to me, he looks at me, Mr. Minister. I need you to give me your word. There's a few of us here. You're 150. I see you've done well. It'll pass, don't be afraid. I've been Minister of Defense for five and a half years. Spring that time, and then you see what you've done, but it's time, Mr. Chairman, to run a session the way it's necessary. I have 16 minutes to speak when this debate is over, but I want to have the opportunity to respond to the direct things Mr. Minister has told me. There were even personal matters here, not only the mention of former ministers, but also their families, which is something that is completely unacceptable, especially to family people who are married, living in a beautiful marriage, have no problem of any other kind. That's not what you do, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u924	As much as I followed the discussions, the circle of replicas could be closed because twice there were answers. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u925	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Minister of Justice, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must at first express my satisfaction that I am just beginning my parliamentary mandate with a debate about the lives of our citizens. I'm not an expert or an expert in this area, but it shouldn't be, so let's see how everyone lives in Serbia today, how they live in Ivanjica, in the municipality from which I come. A few words about the community I come from. Ivanica is one of the territorially larger municipalities in Serbia, but has been neglected for years. She has many resources, and for many years she has not had a MP in this high house. What happened in Ivanjica we hear and we know happened throughout Serbia. There's been a collapse of the economy. Whoever's guilty, I won't say it again. We've said enough and identified the culprit. That's what happened in Ivanjica. I have to say, the numbers, as we said, best show, 12,000 employees used to be. There aren't even a few thousand today. The failed privatisations everywhere, and Ivanica was an economically strong municipality, one of the stronger in Serbia. Let me also mention something that's pretty good, one maybe privatizing the Proleter company, but that's why they all failed. I'm not going to analyze all the privatisations, but I have to touch at least one of them, let's say the big giant Spik, the Wooden Industry, where at least Ivanica, we know, has resources. Today hectares empty, empty halls, not to mention the pollution of that factory on citizens around here. Let's not complain too much, because there's a sad picture everywhere in Serbia, in Ivanjica. On this occasion, I would still like to express a great deal of optimism, hope, faith, faith in the new government, as Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who, we all see, is so dedicated and responsible. We all said and we agree that today is just the first step in the system laws, in the reforms that await us. I want to take this opportunity and appeal to the Ministry of Justice, Mr Selakovic, who is with us today, to continue the path of judicial reform. The Court of Justice has been returned to Ivanjic, but believe me, there must continue to be a greater number of reforms, because there is a lot of work for the judiciary in Ivanjica. That's, first of all, the privatisations we're talking about. Those who led to it must answer. 24 privatisations have been reviewed, but we have to move on. I appeal to that and to the citizens of my community. Not to mention many other controversial cases, such as the “Employed Association of Ivanjica” and many others, and the company in restructuring in Ivanjica, it is the “Javor” confection. I hope that after today and in the coming months, a solution will be found for this company, because there are 600 workers. If they lose their jobs today, we'll have a big problem in Ivanjica. In the end, you could talk for a long time, this is a very important question. I convey the support of Ivanica municipality citizens to the newly elected prime minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u926	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u927	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is very interesting to listen to this debate all day long from all over Serbia, with numerous examples of amazing privatisations. Given everything we've heard, I don't want to repeat myself, but I wonder how our predecessors in the previous regime could have strengthened privatisation and private property. For example, the Charter Factory in Chačka was founded and built in 1929. She had her own owners. In 1945, the winners nationalized the factory, instead of all expectations being returned to previous owners, or their descendants, who still live in Chačka today. The new Privatisation Act is the factory, together with what was built and done from 1945 to 2000 or up to two thousand and some, legally and sold to a third one, and left to us and all Serbian citizens as an amannet to make up for those previous owners what had been taken from them by a former regime, and the democratic regime legally "sold". It's just amazing, such examples in Serbia as much as you want. The social property that was in that former regime was called that, but I'm not sure that it was basically social by all its characteristics, because if you have some factory, some company that has 40, 50 workers, that started from some small master's workshop and turned into a big factory that doesn't owe anyone anything, I wonder how someone third of mine on their behalf to sell it all, but that's something that happened. Now here we have a bill of law that needs technical, or as the medics would tell me, to secure a bypass until the final solution and repair of the Privatisation Act, if there's anything left in this country to privatize without being completely destroyed. In 1949, U.S. President Teodor Roosevelt gave that former SFRY parent penicillin strain and we are the fourth country on earth to produce penicillin in its direction. It lasted and worked until 1991, when the then president of the state, along with the assistance of one of our academics, declared that this parent strain, in a park in Zemun, potentially dangerous for citizens of Belgrade, could escape and cause allergies. In view of that, we have lost health, practical, pharmaceutical independence from the production of antibiotics at this point. We lost the huge incomes we had from, say, India, which of its penicillins produced compared to our native soybeans. So it was a period when it began, in a way, dispersing and intellectual property, which is very important with this private material property. "Gallenika" is a pearl we have that we cannot drop. What happens a few years back with these privatisations leads to such a huge increase in costs and budget burden on all of us, it's just amazing who thought to determine that way. For example, an ordinary lasix, which produced "Yugormedia", is no longer produced here in our country after its privatisation. That ampoule cost five dinars in our own direction. For example, the hospital in Chačka spends 1,000 ampoules of that lasix a week. It is easy to calculate how much he spends a month, how many 40 and some hospitals in the state of Serbia, how many clinical centres, how many homes of health. We are now importing a replacement for lasiks from Croatia, Bulgaria and India. As a matter of fact, it's a clean loss, and it's another pity that this lasix is nowhere near the quality that was ours, which is well-controlled and well-made. What we have in the pharmaceutical industry, pharmaceuticals, technologists, and doctors working there, we really shouldn't lose at any cost. Galenika medicines can be sold themselves, they don't need sales experts, because their medicines are still under huge demand today. There's a lot of cases like that. I really think that we, as a majority part of this Parliament, will be able to stop these negative trends and move Serbia through progress. I have the impression that every type of new value creation in these last 12, 13 years has been for sale, I guess only imports and imports would live. A fellow MP recently mentioned my "Freedom" from Cačka, who suffered some damage in the war. One part of that production, the one that was intended, was restored with a huge effort by the people who work there. It is one and probably the only producer and exporter significant in Chačka that produces something, creates new and exports. The part that used to deal with civil production, or stoves, is still not working. The previous government, the previous regime gave subsidies of 10, 15, 20,000 euros, I don't know exactly how much, "Gorenja" to make some factories around Serbia produce. I don't mind, welcome to Burning, but I really think that producing a stove in Chapanese "Freedom" is a funny task that can also be done in a small workshop, let alone in Chapanese "Freedom". In that name, I support this, and I hope that we will insist on this reform course that finally the state of Serbia begins to produce and sell its products, not sell its homeland and heritage it inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u928	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u929	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, respected citizens, it is an extraordinary honor for me to be an MP in the assembly. I come from the town of Shapca, a city which, like all other cities in Serbia, has been destroyed by catastrophic privatisations, where privatisations with cousin and tycoon agreements have led to a situation that has been getting worse over time. On this day, there are almost no companies that we can place on healthy feet. Since 2000, large companies have gone here, respectable, from Decora, via Inga, Jele, Name, Shapchanka, Save, Swords, to the famous Zorka Holding company. Companies operating at Zorka Holding, which produced, worked and exported from 2000 to the day today, from the first Zorkina gate, to the protection of plants, almost do not exist. In the entire circle of the famous Zorka holding company, there is still only Elixir, which was created by the split of the Victoria Group, which under suspicious circumstances acquired the property of the mineral fertilizer factory. There is also a "Farmakom", which has already been nominated countless times for various loan machinations and raised questions about its privatisations. When it comes to the Sabbath economy, that's all. From Zorka Holding, the company did not even remain an administrative building. It was taken over by local administration for debts to pay back back workers, in an arrangement with Mladjan Dinkic and Dusan Petrovic. In the blockade, even "Mlekara", which owes farmers hundreds of millions of dinars for milk, and how much it owes suppliers, probably even they can't establish. Once the largest car transport company "The 7th July" was sold first to the company king Milet Jerkovic, so it was resold to whom, and today it disappeared from the face of the earth. The thieves took down the garage, the offices and furniture and walls, and there was no stone left on the stone. I guess this is all under the protection of the Sabbath police and local administration. Many still remember the privatisation of Zorka Farm. When Hemofarm bought the same "Zorca Farm" at that time and the people of Šapca remained deprived, not only of one perspective factory, which in the meantime moved most of its resources, licenses and personnel to Vršac, they were cut off for a diagnostic centre, i.e. equipment worth two million euros, with a direct culprit, who did not provide conditions, although under contract, local self-government. The chaps, by chance or on purpose, lost their business, lost their jobs. Sabac had "Zorka", he had "Mepritalastics", he had "Jelu", he had "July 7th", he had respectable businesses. In Europe, it was known as small Paris, until there was a privatisation of "Save", when almost all the catering facilities went for extremely small money and all these facilities, on this day, did not work. We were famous for the Sabbath high school, for the first piano, for the champions of the world in handball, for the province of Uruguay, for the football club "The Sword", and now we are famous for the 10,000 workers who lost their jobs, thanks to the disastrous privatisation. We've been known and famous for 10%, which have increased in the past. I am aware, all citizens are aware that all the cities in Serbia had 10%. On how they carried out privatisation and what they did in the previous period, voters best gave their opinion in the previous parliamentary elections. Mr. Minister, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you on behalf of the citizens to give us an answer as soon as possible. Someone has to be the answer to this kind of privatisation. The opposition gentlemen, there aren't many, I ask the question directly, it's not nice to laugh, I don't know what they're laughing at, it's not fair, they're not just privatisations, they're also political leaders in all other sectors, they're members or they're still members of a party that's directly responsible. When it comes to SNS, and this government, we won't be looking for an alibi in other parties and by the ministries, and I don't see what's controversial, why they're calling and why there's no Minister of Economy. Any minister and any member of the government may speak and be present, but we will not make excuses. What's important is that they are, thanks to this very business and looking for excuses, now they can call everyone together by group, together for censorship, because just by privatizing and by the consequences of that privatisation they came to the level at which they are, and that's together for the censorship. Gentlemen of the opposition, when you're doing something that's not good, and you've been doing it for many years, you start to think it's the right thing to do. Gentlemen, that's not the way to do it. And that's not what the citizens told you, and our prime minister told you, and this government will tell you, and you'll see it in the next period. The process of reviving these 164 companies is one of the first tasks for both Prime Minister and Minister, as well as for all of us present in the hall, and accordingly should support this draft law amending the Law on Privatisation. I call on the opposition to vote in favour of this law with public apology for the disastrously implemented privatisation and the destroyed economy. Once again, let me say that there is no room to dispute this proposal. The form cannot be more important than the essence, and the bottom line is that this country can and must do better and that this government led by Alexander Vukic will certainly work better, fairer and more honestly. Thank you. (The People's MP Dusan Petrovic, from the place: He mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u930	Where did you identify yourself? The former government is all here in the O.R. He didn't mention you in a negative sense. Here you go. If you think that was negative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u931	I don't know, Madam President, your judgments and mine may disagree. In a very negative context. I don't know, Madam President, where Mr. Birmancevic finds me in all of this. It doesn't matter now. One of the cases not only mentioned here, but said years ago, is the privatisation one of the prominent members of the SNS conducted in Šapec. I don't know who Mr. Birmancevic complains to. I think that's the thing you should internally discuss first, so you can talk in the Assembly about what's good, what's not good. As for the fact that several thousand Zorke workers got some money by taking over part of the burden along with some of the economy ministries, I don't know whether Dinkic was a minister or not, I don't think it's a good thing, as I think it is a good thing that the city protected its interests by putting some security funds on one part of Zorka's assets. I think it's good and logical to have a debate about each individual case. I think it's very bad that one of the very important foreign investments in Serbia, which is the fact that Germany's Stada bought Hemofarm, and Hemofarm bought a drug factory in Sapac before that, and that among other things defined a large German company to come to Shabac. Today, the chief manager of Hemofarma is a man who heads a body that runs co-operation between Germany and Serbia in the area of economy. I think it's a good thing that happened, not only to Whisper, but to Serbia. Not to go in and not to burden the public who looks at us and this Parliament with individual cases, these are lies, as this means nothing in relation to the appeal addressed to the minister of justice. And I'm calling on the Minister of Justice. I don't know exactly what his jurisdiction is, or I know. I'm calling on anyone who's in charge of questioning anyone who's misusing anything. Enough with the completely unfounded claims, even with the fact... (President: Time. I think it's important. I'm done. (President: Two minutes and 32 seconds. I'm sure someone will answer you. This is neither the court nor the prosecution. Everyone has a chance to make a nice announcement...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u932	I'm sure the replica is interesting. I have to shut you down. Ambassador, you're off the hook and it's not worth talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u933	Hiding a crime is a criminal offense. If someone finds out it's someone, that anyone has committed a crime and not reported it, it's also in the process and it's in the criminal act. The Serbian Progressive Party has also introduced a zero tolerance for crime and corruption among other newspapers and refreshments in Serbia's economic and political life, not only we will talk about it, but we have applied it. You didn't believe us two years ago when we said that in the fight against crime and corruption there was no protection, and that first we would start from those generators of corruption and crime, from the strongest, however we risked our family and our future, so when they took the courtrooms and the places where they were supposed to be, then you said you wouldn't go to your coalition partners, so when the "Galenika" was processed, you said, "You won't do it on your own," so in one difficult day for the SNS in this room, we took off the immunity of the SNS MP and showed that there was no membership card that would protect anyone who wronged about RS laws. That's why I don't accept any suspicion, any respect that any member of the SNS has done anything wrong. If he did, and someone has knowledge, he needs to report and he needs to be processed. Otherwise, he's the one who's covering all this up in the crime scene. I agree in one thing, this hall is not a courtroom, we're not lawyers, we're not judges, we're not prosecutors. We're not defending anyone, and we're not accusing anyone, but respecting anyone in the sense that I don't want and not allowing anyone, because in the past two years we've proven it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u934	Time. Mr. Petrovic, you have no right to a replica. Now you're being held accountable to your replica. You are not mentioned in your name or name, but only to report a crime if you have some knowledge. Mr. Dusan Petrovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u935	Article 104 wrong interpretation. To what Mr. Babic said, I just said. I didn't honor anyone that he did the crime, but by replicating what Mr. Birmancevic was saying, I said that a privatisation I was talking about was done by a prominent SNS member. I don't know if it is or not. If so, there's someone in charge. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u936	You explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you think we should make a statement, since I'm convinced that Article 104 did not hurt some of my own personal rank? (National MP Dusan Petrovic, from the place: I do not want to. ) The next word is Miodrag Nikolic. You're not in the system and I can't give you a replica, Mr. Birmanchevic. On what basis are you answering? You're the gentleman we're talking about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u937	For the sake of truth and for the sake of the citizens of Šapac, and of course the general public, when the privatisation of Zorka Farm is at stake, the person mentioned by Sinisa Mali and he did participate in privatisation, but here we are talking about the work that the privatisation was not carried out until the end, i.e. it was carried out only in the work of taking over "Zorka-pharma" by Hemopharma". I'd like to hear from you, if that's all right. Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u938	People's MP, you're running out of time. You'll get used to it, your colleagues often yell in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u939	All right. So, the disputed privatisation in the work is that local self-government has not done its part of the job and that Sabac as a city has lost 2m euros for a diagnostic centre. There are data on all of this, there is a purchase contract and I will be very happy at the next session of the Assembly or when the next opportunity is to document and show the citizens who are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u940	Thank you. Now I'm closing a circle of replicas. We've really exhausted the topic in the Hat case. The word is Miodrag Nikolic. Miodrag Nikolic is not in the O.R. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u941	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this tenth convocation is the third convocation in which I take part. I was present when many laws that were unfortunately general were passed were pointless, without any responsibility and without any time frames. Unfortunately, something like that happened in the last session. The Insurance Act has been suspended twice, for composite societies to be separated into lifeless and lifeless, and for this I am extremely proud that we will stop this practice and in the next month bring a systemically, very important Insurance Act. As far as this law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act is concerned, in my humble legal opinion, this is one technological law, a law which clearly defines the responsibilities, which clearly defines the obligations, which clearly define the obligations of creditors, which are the obligations of the Privatisation Agency, which clearly determines the time frames that are very important, because Serbia as a society no longer has time to lose, there is no time for general things, no time for collective responsibility, but for the responsibility of institutions and those who lead those institutions and the responsibility of individuals who participate in this process. This law does not give time, this law gives work and trustees to clearly define their claims and determine them nominally how much they amount, gives work to the Agency to make a proposal in 90 days, to make a proposal on how these obligations will be settled, and no bad message is given to this law. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act in the voting day. There is a possibility that this law will allow one of the creditors to accept what the Privatisation Agency will give him as a proposal, so we will at least solve some of these firms in the restructuring process. I'm not much of an optimist, but, as Mr Selakovic said, let some of those 162 firms in restructuring get a chance, keep living, so it's a success. If the creditors don't accept such a way of solving, well, at least we've arranged something, at least we've listed, at least we've said what companies are in restructuring, to whom they owe and what they are. At least this way, the arrangement will be more attractive and more acceptable to privatisation and future strategic partners. That's the value of this law. Will these 150 days be enough? I see by some amendments that have been submitted that some colleagues believe that the deadline should be extended. I'm always up for a shorter term, I'm always for more engagement, but I'm always, not for sharing responsibility, but for precisely identifying who's responsible for what, and I'll see you in this room and in 150 days from the day of adoption of this law. We'll see who's done all the work and how dark this area is to the firm in restructuring, which carries a bottomless hole of 750m euros a year. He told his colleague Jovicic that every year with $750m thrown away, that we are thus giving half the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that with this money there is much less chance for some young people with much more ideas that want to open up companies, who want to create a future in this country. I'm sorry that one part of my exposure will be used for some kind of replica on the criticisms I've heard in today's work. It's respected why you're working Saturday. I apologize to my colleagues if they had been obliged on Saturdays, and I apologize to those who were planning to maybe accept the salary alone, and that in the interest of the citizens, they were working a day or two. The SNS message and with a change in working time, messages and with many matters concerning the state administration is such that this government of the Republic of Serbia wants to hire and roll up sleeves, not just to the government, not just to ministers, not just to the National Assembly, we want Serbia to roll up sleeves. To whom it does not respond, to whom it does not answer to work on Saturdays and Sundays day and night, in the interest of Serbian citizens, it can say freely, and we will see if the next time will welcome those 6,08% support. It's been respected that nothing has been done, that it's ineffective. I can agree that speed is very important and that I would be much happier if things were going faster in our society, but coming out of a situation where nothing was going on and getting into this speed of problem solving, I'm happy because I'm taking part in this solving of our society's challenges. You know, a company once called "Yugoslav Aerotransport" was not in restructuring, but swallowed 55m euros annually. This same JAT, and now "Er Serbia", by hiring the former Government of the Republic of Serbia, by hiring the current prime minister, and I see that some here are not responding to friends, do not respond to Emirates, do not respond to people who have money, who look at Serbia with friendly eyes, who want to invest here, want to work, want to build, want to employ our country, so they do not respond. Then who do you think is okay? Citizens, Emirates, yourself? Who? No one. The same JAT, which swallowed 55m euros a year last year, has now opened 33 new destinations flying from Belgrade. The same former JAT, and the current Er Serbia, had a 65% growth in this quarter. The same JAT, which swallowed 55m euros under the former regime, now has 45% revenue growth. The same former JAT, and the current Er Serbia, which swallowed 55m euros in the former regime, now has a 50% turnover growth. The same "Er Serbia" received the first Erbas 320, which arrived a few days ago and the other one will arrive during the summer. And that doesn't answer to anyone. Why is this criticism malicious? Because it is directed to the citizens of Serbia, and only because of political indifference or, I would not like to use, perhaps, political hatred. It is also respected that nothing is done, that it is said only to be announced. I spoke earlier and I will repeat -- the measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia that have been discussed here today is that from Monday in the economy of Serbia, a billion and 200m euros of funds will be accumulated, which will be on very favourable interest terms of 5.8% on dinar credit, which are literally donated because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined 60m euros to subsidise these loans. It is a very important input for Serbia's economy. Why hasn't he been here by now? Because banks were used to eventually get loans from political parties, like in the past, without any guarantee. I don't know, respected friends, respected colleagues, were you able to get a loan without a guarantee? Could anyone in Serbia have won without political support, without a political momentum, to get a loan without any guarantee or guaranteeing funds or goods that are far less than that loan obtained? Who's been put out that account? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The banks will now use and serve to encourage the economy, not to rob Serbian citizens. I don't know why it bothers the announcement of incentives and incentive measures for the construction industry? What's a pandan? Why bother people with “Belgrade on Water”? Why does it bother anyone in this room to hire a construction operation? What do you offer in return? Perhaps Stepe Stepanović project? You may be bothered by these cheap apartments that will be obtained, and it will be obtained because the state will provide both infrastructure and land, but not for someone to charge, but for those apartments to be cheap, but for the construction industry, which unfortunately has less and less, could work, could work. Could the pandan be a project called "Belville on Water" perhaps, pasture by the temple of St. Sava? I don't know what a pandan is. What has raised the construction industry so much in the past 10, 12 years, and now it's a problem for friends, the project that will change the geography of Belgrade, bothers the project that will employ Serbia, the project that will bring thousands and thousands of people into Serbia, people who have money, who want to invest, so they can invest even for an apartment in that "Belgrade on Water", and let alone for business space or something more in Serbia's industry. Unfortunately, when you mention privatisation to people in Serbia, the first feeling is robbery, kidnapping, lockup, layoff of workers. The Serbian Progressive Party did not participate in the process, but contributed. She contributed because, and so did colleagues today, because Verica Barac mentioned and pointed to 24 controversial privatisations. The European Union around which, thank God, there is a consensus of Serbia's path to the EU, has shown us, for years we've been getting pucks back why 24 controversial privatisations are not being solved? Which is why it had to come in 2012 and take responsibility from the SNS, co-ordination with security services by Mr. Alexander Vukic, in order for people in Serbia who are doing investigations to start doing their job without fear of being called and told – to process it, or not to process it, and it was enough 18 months to complete the procedure in these 24 controversial privatisations and to get a court epilogue. My colleagues from various parts of Serbia, I am truly grateful to them for taking care of their place, taking care of the area they come from, pointing to privatisations, unfortunate, controversial, those who left people out of work. I'm grateful to them because the people who are out of a job in those companies today may be closer to justice, they'll be happier, they'll know they're not forgotten. They won't live better, but they will know that by this government, by the SNS, by which they were sent to represent them in this high house are not forgotten. I thank you, and you have to do it in every place. We heard today that 2.266 privatisations carried out in Serbia and that from 2.266 only 28 were successful. That's one percent success rate. I agree with my colleague Martinovic when he said, conditionally successful, because by analysing the data that we do not carry on paper, but which we get from the Privatisation Agency, in those 28 successful privatisations 20 have reduced the number of employees, and eight has increased. It is the value of these successful privatisations because they still live, because they continue to work, because they are still the generator of the development of the region. But I also agree when it's said conditionally, because these 20 successfully privatized, relatively or conditionally successful, left 10,211 people without a job. Ten thousand two hundred and eleven fates, 10,211 families, and when we successfully add these failures, we get a disaster. That's why it feels like when you tell people in Serbia that privatisation thinks about robbery, think about closed ones, think about locks, think about all the evil that privatization has brought to our society. The Serbian Progressive Party, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, wants to give 162 firms a chance to restructure to wake up, to shake up, to take advantage of their potential, to take advantage of a state that wants to help. That's the difference in policies, because we don't count the help when we reach out from the budget, so we buy four trucks in FAP for the whole Serbia Army, and when we get 400 buses, then we give it to Solaris and some other countries, we already want solutions that are sustainable for both this area and those people who live in these companies. Systemic, clear privatisation law will be once and for all, I hope, and I am sure of a fair, correct and forward-looking process of one law, a system law on privatisation that we will be able to complete by July of the month, but with a strong perspective to complete the privatisation process in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u942	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go. You've got 13 minutes and 10 seconds and two minutes 0.2 seconds if you're going to use Parliament time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u943	Thank you for your precision. This today was a very interesting discussion that mainly or very little was involved in this topic that is on the agenda. The law here today is purely technical and I think that the government had to, given that the same coalition is already full of two years in power, it had to have more concrete solutions to the issue of privatisation in Serbia if there is this much bile and this much bad energy compared to what was done before, rather than continue to privatise by the same principle and to criticise the former government. I didn't get ready, to tell you the truth, to talk about the '90s because I listened to 802 and 90 years in some cities that were phenomenal and that certain factories hired tens of thousands of people, only those people didn't get paid and they didn't have a job, they had a job without a job and no pay. This is best seen when you look at statistics from 2000 to 2012. What happened in that period? In that period, the gross domestic product increased by about 300%. Every year about 25% of our gross domestic product grew from 2000 to 2012. That's the average. You know what happened in 2012? We have a 1.6% decline, and then in 2013, we have a 2.5% growth thanks above all to the Fiat, which we will agree is not the result of the government's work, but the very governments that were before. In 2012, exports from our country were four times larger than they were in 2000, and that is realistically what happened in Serbia in those twelve years, and it will be recorded statistically, with all the efforts to explain that in the 1990s they were wherever and where better. That fact simply doesn't stand, and the data shows that something else is a fact. Foreign exchange reserves like I said in 2000 were 200 million, in 2012, 11 billion, about 55 times higher. Now something has fallen, because this government and this money spends and the fact is simply statistical indicators show that in the past two years we have a decline, a real drop in living standards, a fall in wages and a drop in pensions, and that's something that has been statistically proven. Employment in February of this year is lower than last year in the same month by 1.6%. We can talk about 200, 300, millions of those who lost their jobs in transition, but what's a fact this year is worse than last year, and the past was worse than in 2012. These are data issued by the State Statistics Institute and that's something everyone in Serbia knows. At the same time we have an increase in unemployment, in February it went to 29.9% and 0.2% more unemployment than it was last year, or in the previous month. This all indicates that despite the desire to be loudly convinced here that there is prosperity in Serbia and that you just didn't have time to fix what they had destroyed before you, it just didn't. This government is, I'm not going to say bad, these two that were previous are the worst since 2000, this government has a chance to fix it, but first it has to fix what it has ruined itself over the past two years. We are gathered here today because last year the government adopted an Action Plan under which one of the businesses' restructuring operations was to be completed by a certain deadline, the government assigned itself a task, and today we are gathered here to move that date, because the government has done nothing about it. Whether it's 162 or 164 I'm not sure, I can see the minister isn't sure, but it doesn't matter, but whether it's solved either. None has been solved. None of them are solved. Let it be the Democratic Party's fault for everything that's been going on, we'll take all the responsibility for what's been going on, here's everything for us. Tell us what segment of the economy is feeling better today? At the same time, all taxes, tax on profits, VAT taxes, on computers, etc., etc. were increased. The budget gap is even bigger, and at the same time the debt rises dramatically. We now have an announcement of a new debt of 1.2 billion in exactly the same way our government did. That's when you criticized it, now praise it. It's not a problem of duty. The problem is that there is no better living in Serbia and that there is no one, absolutely no project, except for this virtual project "Belgrade on Water", against which we have nothing, because it is not there. It's not the first project that doesn't exist that's been announced. When there is, when you jump say hop and say this is what we did. We were talking about FAP. It's not true that FAP had years when he didn't produce any trucks or vehicles. It's not true. Between 150 and 200 vehicles came out of FAP and in the worst time of sanctions by 2012, 150 vehicles and 30 vehicles in 2013 and no vehicles this year. The average salary was 30,000 dinars, and now the people to the minimum, and the minimator are not receiving under this government, the coalition was being striked on the track, not under the government before that. That's the same thing that happens with Jumka. Last summer, media did not broadcast when "Jumka" workers closed the Belgrade-Solun highway. It was a thing that hasn't happened to the public in Serbia, and the fact is that for the first time in four years, there's been a strike for four months, there's been an increase in wages double, efficiency between 70% and 90% of those two to three months, and today it's a strike. Could it be the one who left 90% of the production or the one who made us have a strike and that nothing was done. When I was talking about how I was probably the only one, I didn't want to offend anyone, just like that, if I'd been to FAP and Jumk, Krusik, Freedoms, First Partisan, and then I'd like to ask Mr. Valev, excuse me, is today better in Krusik than two years ago? Does the Krusik factory work better today than two years ago? Why are people working on temporary and occasional jobs fired? Why are there fewer workers in Krusik today than it was two years ago? You know, when we brought an Iraqi contract, they said in Valjevo – a historical contract, a contract of the century. Where's the new contract of the century? Why isn't he here? Because here you can't create an ambiance in which someone will produce, you can only argue with me as much as you want, but the data is like that. If this policy continues, Krusik will fail. A similar thing could happen to other plants of dedicated production, the same thing could happen to the flag trucks, where we produced a new prototype truck that was supposed to serve the military and the police, the project failed. You guys want to admit it or not, when you get back to your cities, it's an honor, you told us everything you had to tell us. It was better in 1985, 1998 and 2001, and today it's the worst. You're wanted for solutions. If we didn't offer those solutions or didn't know, we couldn't, okay, the citizens punished us, they voted for you, now it's time for you to give a solution. It's simple and simple. The solutions are that in every segment of life, all people live worse. You've introduced a solid tax, taxed the most exclusive part of our state administration, the most educated part, now you're cutting it off. You said it was a fantastic measure, and now that measure is lifted, everyone is taxing. You plan to cut pensions that are minimal, 24,000 is the average pension, if you take 10% of them, what are people going to live on? All this is what you have offered us, and today in the exposé, in the media, in the story of Mr. Minister, I say that this is not a good way to develop Serbia, nor is it a good way to develop our society. The economy just can't develop, unless our society is stabilised, if we don't have, I apologize, if you can't throw it away, because I'll be happy to answer you both now and after, just don't throw it at me, I mean the gentleman in the back. There's no time, there's time, 16 minutes plus two is equal to 18, I know it bothers you, but just slow down, I'm just getting started. Don't have a dilemma. Some 15 billion euros have been invested in Serbia from 2000 to 2012. If you divide it every year, for those 12 years, it's 1.25 billion euros every year. In 2012, in 2013 you had one billion in total, and today there are only 92 million in this year. So, in two and a half years, you have just over one billion. How do you think you survive and how do you think you survive the Serbian economy and how, when we need an optimal between a billion and a half billion euros. Of course, the great stories "Mubadal" four billion, "Belgrade on Water", three billion, "Etihad" don't know how many billions anymore, because I didn't even see that contract, "Al Dahra" three billion in agriculture, some chips, everything is fantastic and we support everything, just to see. If you convince us it's a real story, we can support it, but when will it be realized? Life can't wait for you to plan something, and you don't have a realisation. Do not accuse the opposition, have the respect that your deputy prime minister was also a deputy prime minister in our government, that your minister of trade and tourism was also a minister in our government, that Mr Velimir Ilic was also a minister in our government. When you ask about Magnochrom, ask Mr. Velimir Ilic what he did to make this factory in the Kingdom work, or how much it is his work that this factory does not work. Dear Serbian citizens, I want to tell you that we have not, unfortunately, held today's session the way we should have. I'm sorry, but the way you treat what the former government did isn't at least appropriate. None of you say for a moment that something happened as part of the privatisation that you couldn't imagine, that Serbia bought its share of Telecom, which you, when you were in that same coalition with other names in power, sold. So, Serbia bought the Telecom for 500m euros that you can sell again today. Did you do something like that in the last two years? You're not. So it's not enough just to criticize, it's not enough to spill cups of bile, because it's something that won't contribute to the better first of all to you. Your success is Serbia's success. Your success is the success of us. If you can make a better one, the better one will be for us. And pro by the construction industry, let me say again – jump first and say hop. So, in his five years, the Ministry of Defense solved about 5,000 housing issues to its members. One of the projects was the biggest project in this part of Europe, at the time, Stepa Stepanovic. As a rule, you can't admit that something was good, so you're disrespecting it. What happened in the real sector? It happened last year that construction industry's work dropped 30% compared to last year's. You know how much effort it takes now to get back to what it was, and then just keep making progress better? It won't help you to criticize the former government that left you what you say isn't good. If you don't focus on how you'll find a solution to what comes to your encounter? I wish there were real preconditions that in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Valjev, Kraljev, it doesn't matter where, indeed, apartments can cost 380 euros, but let's not say that before we see that there really is an idea solution, a project, an explanation of how possible, under what conditions, how much will it cost Serbian citizens individually, how much will it cost all of us together? Under what conditions does someone get the country free of charge, the prime ministers and the seconds free of charge, get municipal equipment for free, and why can Serbian investors not get the same for free? For what? You don't think there are people who want to invest if you give them free land and let them do it? I'm talking about the domestic industry, it's about domestic industry incentives, gentlemen. For two years, you have been in power both in Serbia, in a large part of the cities and municipalities throughout Serbia. I'm sure you could suggest to your cities and municipalities that they might be buying something in that FAP, as we did in the Department of Defense. I'm sure you could have stimulated someone from the police or the military to continue the Serbian Army's equipment process with the Jumka uniforms. I'm telling you this well-intentioned, because for many years, it hasn't happened that the Serbian Army is equipped with a domestic uniform. The practice was, before I became a minister, that's what privates do. It's what Jumko was doing now. "Jumko" domestic production from cotton to final product. Back that up. Don't let us travel to Vranj again this summer, because they've closed the highway, and that can happen, and no one else's hungry stomach will stand, any torture. No one's afraid anymore. People have come this far. If you can help them, help them, if you can't, say, "People, we can't, what do you suggest?" I see there's a high degree of nervousness. I'm sorry. We will be a stone for you in a shoe, not to warn you, but to encourage you to run a little faster. Dear fellow, roll your sleeves...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u944	You've wasted your time now, pal. You've both spent your time. Thank you. National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u945	Article 107. The Dignity of the Assembly. If someone in this room doesn't have the right to talk to anyone else, say it doesn't work or act like someone who folds their sleeves, I'm not ashamed to roll up my sleeves. Member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly if we know that the MP... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u946	There's an error in the system. Can I have your patience, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u947	If one of the people's MPs knows or doesn't know if he can fold his sleeves, maybe if he invited me to a moat on the second class past the temple of St. Sava, when he was building his own home, so maybe I could collegiately help him and show him how much I could fold my sleeves, but he didn't fold his sleeves, let alone the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u948	I didn't understand what the president was involved in?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u949	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by telling the truth that it has been up in Serbia for the past two years than it has been before. It is terrible and the finger in the eye is to put people in Serbia who have lost their post from 2008 to 2012. In 2008, the U.S. 13% of unemployment was in Serbia. You're right to look and look down, 2012. Year 26.2%. You didn't do anything at all. You haven't done anything in European integration either. You haven't done anything about solving the frozen conflict in Kosovo and Metohija. I will remind you of what the previous government has done and there will be few of these two minutes, but putting the truth out in the eye of people who have lost their jobs is indeed a humiliation of the dignity of the Republic of Serbia. As for the investments themselves, I am sorry that the previous speaker believes that direct investment in Serbia is the sale of the property of Miroslav Miskovic "Delezu". If it's a reform, if it's an investment in Serbia, really...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u950	Please, it's been two minutes. We've come out of the Rules of Procedure's breach. I don't think the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't see what the President of Parliament's injury was in at all. Do you want to vote on this? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. I thank you. All these other MPs who have come forward, except for MP Dragan Sutanovac, have really no basis for any replica because you cannot seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure based on the speech of Zoran Babic. I'm really not gonna let that happen. I'll only allow Mr. Dragan Sutanovac because they were directly communicating. We've only come into a very unusual situation. You can't replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u951	Then I'll hurt the Rules of Procedure, the same member. Article 107. It's necessary to tell the truth. As most colleagues insist, so do I. You know, when you say we didn't do anything in the process of European integration, I understand that you don't really recognize it, and I know that you're a machineman, like me, so it's not a close profession, but I've been doing that job, so I get the circumstances a little bit. Two things were crucial for which we received negotiations, and before that, candidate status, etc. One thing is solving the Hague tribunal's problem. We've solved this problem. The second thing was setting up a customs and ramp in Kosovo and Metohija. You're the one who solved this. It's the essential thing that you're in...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u952	Please, Ambassador Sutanovac, speak to me, for it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We've entered replicas, and knowingly you've all violated the Rules of Procedure. Please respect my tolerance and let us finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u953	I didn't want to, Madam Chairman, to watch you talk about The Hague tribunal. You could have found yourself called.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u954	I don't mind. I don't feel called at all, but I thank you now because we really hurt the Rules of Procedure more than once with my tolerance. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) ) Please be recorded. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. There's no basis for replication, really. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On what basis do you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Dignity and personal address. ) I would ask you to use the Rules of Procedure carefully and in violation of the Rules of Procedure because indeed the chairman is taking care of dignity, and I do not violate the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u955	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, dignity of the Assembly. When someone loses their argument, they reach for personal insults. Whether anyone understands or does not understand, I would like to see the diploma of the institution that says someone understands European integration and someone does not understand European integration. As the previous speaker said, yes, we studied together at the same university and I explain exactly that disdaining of the MPs when it is left without argument, will I, who finished the Faculty of Machines say – yes, I am a better engineer than someone who finished after 12 years? No, I'll never say that, because I think we need to talk about arguments here, not based on personal insults when that argument no longer exists. Speaking of drawing some boundaries, and I don't know what it is, the DS guys were handing out motor saws and taking down the balvanies on Kim, and then they were telling them to put those bozos away. Why did the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic not win, or rather did she not deserve a date for starting negotiations? What are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u956	Thank you, Ambassador Babic. Please understand. On what basis are you answering? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Let me explain. () I'd love to, but don't be angry if I interrupt you because we really did get in the way of the Rules of Procedure. Under the Rules of Procedure, MPs cannot break, but you are all in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please explain. You have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u957	It's Article 104. At the beginning of working together, I think it's very important to clarify that we are in one situation that we simply need to clarify because of all of us. You're saying that when a MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can't cause replication. However, it says here that if the MP in his presentation is insultingly expressing himself about a parliamentary group or an MP, the MP may have the right to replication. I believe that every speech by the People's Parliament in the Serbian Parliament is some sort of exposure to it and that in that sense it is simply not an acceptable explanation that anyone who speaks about the injury of the Rules of Procedure if, at that time, offends someone else cannot cause replication. Just to take some common ground. It seems to me that you have one opinion, and that the other vice-presidents, when they're preside over something different, so that we don't find ourselves in a situation that depends on who's chaired by the MPs having different rights, we simply need to establish a rule. It certainly seems to me that every statement of the Messenger of the people is a matter of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u958	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I would beg an explanation. ) I have asked all MPs who have abused the institution of violations of the Rules of Procedure not to do so. I was very tolerated, I gave all sides my word. Therefore, in order not to be in such a situation, the Rules of Procedure no longer has any injuries on this basis, nor has any MP caused any violation of the Rules of Procedure by these polemics of yours through me. We're moving on to work. Mr. Marko Djurisic has the right and time of five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u959	I'd like a few sentences to sum up this debate on our part. Mr. Minister, in some statement, not in his opening statement, on our criticism that this is not a system law, said this is a law that prepares the ground for the adoption of system law. Whether it was realistic or not, today we are having a debate on privatisation in Serbia – we think it was time to pass a system law before the Assembly, not to go with these changes and additions. I've had so much stranger announcements that this law will come into debate before us here and by the end of June. Then I ask the question – why is this law and the five-month deadlines? I assume that this new law on privatisation, meaning no changes and additions, which we will adopt and discuss, will define a different problem for companies in restructuring and that what we have talked about today, the deadlines in the law, will become meaningless, because we will have a new law by the end of July. But the concern remains that we expressed at the beginning of this discussion, that perhaps all of this will not go according to that plan as imagined and announced, and that perhaps after 150 days, we will give this deadline to the government now to find solutions for companies in restructuring. If he doesn't find a solution, we'll talk again and give some new deadlines to the government to solve this problem that he is, I agree, inherited 25 years of privatisation. I was saying there's no big point in going back a lot and looking at who he is and how responsible he is, even though today's discussion went the most in that direction, and there's not much to talk about the future. Perhaps the minister and I are considering to what extent it is necessary to look back, and in which, in advance, especially in this situation. Then came criticism that we may not have talked enough today about government measures, which will be presented on Monday. Unfortunately, I don't know anything about these measures. I may have been able to read something in the papers, but neither is the minister today, since he's the minister of justice, he couldn't talk about economic measures. That's why management was our remark – why aren't they the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister here? Perhaps they would then hear something about these economic measures, the 1.2 billion euros that will be offered to businesses. We couldn't hear anything about it here in parliament, so we couldn't talk about it. I ask you not to give that kind of criticism to us from the opposition. Also, enough talk – successful, unsuccessful privatisations. I'm closer to numbers by profession. I couldn't figure those numbers out best. If 2.228 privatisations were made, someone said, and the minister said three and a half thousand. First, your numbers don't match. Then there are some 500 broken privatisations, and in the end only 28 successful. I don't know what the criteria are, what about those 2,672 privatisations that were made, they weren't broken up, and by some standard they weren't successful? There have also been talks here about whether and how many new privatisations have brought new jobs. Amongst these successful, I remembered these data, only eight companies have more employees today than at the beginning of the pre-privatization process, and that in these 20, also successful, over 10,000 people have lost their jobs. If we're going to talk realistically, how many people in Serbia had jobs in 2000, or jobs, and they didn't have a job and they didn't have a salary? The minister himself said that in a number of these companies today, which are in restructuring, people only have a job name. They don't come to work or do anything, and they don't get paid. And that situation, I agree, has to end. That's why we expected to hear more than what this government is specifically planning, except for what we heard in the exposé. For us, unfortunately, it was not detailed enough, and this law does not offer any solution. It only opens one five-month deadline to find a solution. In the end, I want to look back at something that bothered me in the discussion. There has been a lot of talk about who appreciates the work and success of some policy, and it has been said that citizens in these elections have told someone – never again. Citizens came forward two months ago in the elections and gave their ruling on policies that were then running in the elections. I guess it wasn't the last elections in Serbia, so there will be opportunities for citizens to give their opinion again and whether someone will be here again or not, in what number, decide citizens. I think we agree on that, and we can't say that they told anyone -- never again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u960	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u961	Thank you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to, in the shortest and more concise statement, give and final word for the debate on the draft law in principle. In one of the last statements of several harsh lies and several very incorrect attitudes, it was stated. It is very, under the assumption that someone who is in government, as I said, sat for five and a half years, and in those five and a half years only two years more than 100 companies went into restructuring. The year 2010 and 2011, counterpart Martinovic talked about it, in one year more than 80, in the second year more than 20, and such a person defied himself that he could honor this government if it had solved the problem and the issue of a company in restructuring. I've said several times today that we're talking about problems that have arisen for decades. The MPs spoke of privatisations. There have been poor privatisations, and there have been other bad and bad economic procedures. In the 1990s, they will be remembered as terrible in this nation and in this country. Scary for inflation, terrible for wars, terrible for murders, for many things bad. Unfortunately for me and our great regret for some other things in 2000 were no better. I'll remind you of something I think is very important to say. So 164 companies we have in restructuring. Over 164 more than 100 entered the restructuring in 2010 and 2011. The most criminal privatisations we qualify as criminal, the truth was not carried out by the government, one other government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, 2004 to 2007, but the government that came after it to power and had the opportunity to sanction it had the opportunity to insist on investigating it. What was she doing on that? She wasn't doing anything at all. And there are so many debates of MPs on privatisation, although they may be more expected to discuss one day at the Privatisation Act. When the MPs from one Shabec, from one Loznica, from one Valjev, from one King list all the companies suffered, first in the economic woes of the 90s, then in the bad privatisations and poor economic policy of the 2000s, it sounds amazing what we had in the economy. There's a few data that I need to look back on. First, since 2001, 15 billion euros in investment has been said in the Republic of Serbia. I wish someone would show me where 15 billion euros went. It's only when I think of the one that's pumping around the National Investment Plan and the story of what's going to be done and what's done. The national investment plan ended with the renovation of mail by Serbian cities. This is the National Investment Plan. The post office in the part of the city where I live, when you enter it is beautiful, arranged, and it should be, but it has a large board – the National Investment Plan. I don't mean anything by it, but I just remember that we had the Ministry of National Investment Plan, so I remember that one of the presidents of the parliamentary party was the minister in charge of the National Investment Plan. Today, from the same party, we are called the main culprits of everything that was done at the time. I said, I take all the blame on myself, all the bad things that were done. You want to talk about the future? Let's talk about the future, but don't take it first and criticize something from the past that lasts 20 months. In those 20 months, all the problems have arisen. In 2001, did you say that the economy was burdened with loans from state banks, so let's shut down those four largest banks, so there's no more burden on the economy. When we shut down the largest four national banks, then we formed a National Savings Bank where state capital melted overnight and was gone. It's all survived by this country. Today, when we are discussing, for the first time, a technical measure that will allow us to save 164 enterprises in restructuring as much as can be saved, and out of that 164 more than 100 went into restructuring in 2010 and 2011, there is no opportunity for us to discuss the way it should be discussed. As a member of the government, I must look back on what has been said about the Belgrade water project. Whoever said it had none of it, I call on him to come to the Belgrade Cooperative Building on May 31st, in Karadjordjevo Street, in a building that our friends from the United Arab Emirates have invested two and a half million euros in adaptation and that he is attending the opening of an expo centre of Belgrade on water. Let him come and see. Not everything is absolutely black. I have to look back at something that started with the previous government, one of the rarest, previous ones, I mean that in 2012, things that produce results, which is the investment of the Fiat. I am convinced, as a member of this government, that during our term of office this investment will become even bigger, but I don't know anything else, show us where 15 billion euros went. Where did 15 billion euros go? When told, two more sentences about Jumko, of the 1700 workers in Jumko, 600 workers work in general legal affairs and out-of-production jobs, 600 workers. I would be delighted that Serbia has such an army that one Jumko can work all year long only from the production of uniforms, but uniforms are produced and changed over a certain period of time, for five, six, ten, twenty years. Of which one factory can't live. If she's so good at it, why couldn't she do a lot more for foreign markets? I would be delighted that Serbia has an army that only FAP can supply with its production, but Serbia has an incomparably smaller army than the formerly held by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the SFRY. When it comes to the fact that everything is much worse, to live up there, that we're to blame for everything, maybe that's so, maybe as a minister in this government, I am guilty of everything, maybe the government is guilty of everything, even though it's two weeks in office. We may be guilty of everything, but since we're all politicians here, we're all seriously involved in politics, hopefully, we know that political guilt and responsibility values people in elections. On 16 March, citizens went to the polls and if it is to be tried by it, and we are talking about political responsibility, then the result of the election is clear who is responsible for the state of the country as it is today. This government has a serious approach to solving problems. This government has given a system plan to get out of the crisis. We're working on how much we can make it happen. If you think two weeks was enough time to show the score, I don't know what you've been doing for eight years. Eight full years. Eight full years in which different governments, from those that were extinguished by banks, have been responsible for liberating the economy of debts, and then those who carried out criminal privatisations, are now taking criminal proceedings against the ministers responsible for carrying out privatisations from these governments, those who did not want to deal with investigations and the processing of these criminal privatisations. Now we've reached the government that needs to get chestnuts out of the fire. This government was given the opportunity and support of Serbian citizens in the form of 208 MPs in this parliament. If such a government has been given a chance by citizens through 208 MPs, then it is an elemental order and the principle to give it and those remaining 42 MPs. I think it's the most principative and correct thing without any demagogy, a false story of honesty to the citizens of Serbia. In that name, I call on you to make a constructive proposal in the debate on this law in particular through your amendments to improve the solutions offered by this law and to bring the best possible solution for our citizens and our economy, best in this situation, because unfortunately many better situations as states and citizens have been missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-10-0.u962	I thank Minister Selakovic. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. The session continues at 10.00 p.m. Monday, with discussion in particular. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the Minister of Justice to attend the meetings of Dragan Stavanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Business and Michel Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Industry, to attend the search in particular of the draft law on the 1st agenda. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the draft laws amending the Law on Privatisation. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Dr Vladimir Pavićevic, Olgica Batić, Gordana Comić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Marko Djurisic, Zoran Babić, Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, Zlata Djerić and Dubravka Filipovski. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Olga Batic.
