ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Milena Cirilović, Branka Curović, Milorad Mijatović, Meso Omerović and Borislav Kovacevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. The Socialist Party of Serbia's (SPS) parliamentary group proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a proposal to amend the decision to elect members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 October 2014, item 6 of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Assembly Secretary-General Jana Ljubicic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for the appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 3 July 2014. Does the MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10193	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a bill of law that you have heard from the chairman. I want to tell you that it's about Zoe's law, a law that's been in the assembly procedure for two years, a law that's not proposed by any political party, but a proposal by parents who have lost a child who has suffered from Batten's disease. The proposal of Zoya's law is to regulate all the rights of some invisible sick children who suffer from a rare disease. I'd like to ask your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10194	Please allow the MP to explain his proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10195	I want this law to be on the agenda as soon as possible and that the sooner we discuss it, because it covers the rights of sick children who suffer from a rare disease. This law has been in the congregation procedure for two years, and it was written with a family who had lost a little girl who had been suffering from Batten’s disease. This law provides that children who suffer from rare diseases, unless they are diagnosed in Serbia, after six months, that their sample of tissue, muscle, blood can be sent to some of the reference laboratories and they can be diagnosed in the world. When you make a diagnosis, then that child has the right to be treated. This is how these kids are invisible, they don't exist in that famous RFO cipher, they bounce away and wander around in that one of our administrative executions. The suggestion is to talk about this law. I want to inform you that this is the law of life, given that the Zoe who lost her life means life in Greek. Zoya means life, and this law means life and the possibility of healing for many of our youngsters, who suffer from a rare disease. All the countries of Europe we seek to unite have systemically regulated the rights of children suffering from a rare disease. My appeal is for this law to be found on the agenda of the National Assembly as soon as possible and no longer stands as it stands two years in the procedure. I want to tell you that this law is written with doctors, professors who treat children with rare diseases from the Clinical Centre of Serbia, from the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, from the Clinical Center of Nis. I would also like to say that this law has received the support of more than fifty NGOs who suffer from various diseases and have received the support of many associations of parents of severely ill children. I want to tell you that this law was also supported by former Health Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, so the extraordinary parliamentary elections prevented him from coming to the agenda. I want to tell you that this bill has the support and the current Minister of Goldibor Lonchar and I hope that as soon as possible this law will come. I am fighting for this law because this is a law that must unite all MPs because it is about children who are currently invisible to our state and the Republic Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10196	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -22, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157, Articles 2 and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Co-operation and Protection of Natural and Other Tragedies, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international common crossing between Vračev Gaj (Republic of Serbia) and Sokol (Romania) at the Serbian-Romanian state border and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of the Golubac (Republic of Serbia) and Nova Moldova (Romania) on the Serbian-Roman state border. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 131 versus – 10 abstentions – no, 24 of the total of 165 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on the proposals, I would like to put on the agenda of the urgent act sessions, on the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda in the proposal for a merger of the debate under Article 93(3). I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for 146 against – 10 abstentions – there is no, 142 of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has by majority established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport, which the Government has submitted; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters, which the Government has submitted; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Vračev Gaj (Republic of Serbia) and Sokol (Romania) at the Serbian-Romanian state border, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Golubac (Republic of Serbia) and Nova Moldova (Romania) at the Serbian-Romanian state border, which the government has filed; 6. The draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have also invited the sittings of Uros Zekovic, V.D., as well as representatives of the proposings Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports. Assistant Minister of Youth and Sports and Zorica Nikodijević, Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. Before the principled search opens, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs and members of parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Does the representative of Proposer Vanja Udovicic, Minister of Youth and Sports want a word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10197	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People and People's Parliament, today you have before you a bill to prevent doping in sport. I must say that today I have indescribable nervousness, and also responsibility when I represent this law for the simple reason that for the first time I'm doing this responsible thing, for the first time I'm in front of you, and I'm the legislator of the law, and I can't measure this responsibility and this subject and not one I've ever experienced in active sports. In sports, I took part in major results and entered the sports history of the Republic of Serbia. Today I am also able to sign up in the legal history of the Republic of Serbia, to arrange an area that is increasingly waving at international level, a negative phenomenon that has proved to be increasingly present and a phenomenon that we need to deal with seriously. Sports 10 years ago when this current law was passed and today has changed to a great extent. At the time, sport had no need for such a detailed law and for a law that dealt in such detail with the prevention of doping in sport. We're all witnessing that watching sports 10 years ago and today there's a drastic difference. Today sport is much more active, faster, more dynamic, and it is something that adorns today's sport, but medicine is also developing in the field of sport to the extent that sport itself is developing. In order to achieve greater results, athletes themselves are subject to some of the illicit doping substances, mostly out of ignorance. This law deals to a large extent with the education of athletes, to a large extent with the obligations of all those actors in the field of sports, in order to educate the athletes themselves primarily, to carry out all the criminal provisions prescribed by this law. Serbia is one of the countries that is the signatories of the International Convention on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, and as a signator, we have some obligations that have been made, but as much as the conditions for athletes themselves are, we feel that we are both responsible and that we have to deal with this area responsibly and that we are educating our athletes and not only in sports results, to be recognizable in the world, but also by the legal measures brought by this Assembly and the overall Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law regulates measures and activities to prevent doping in sport. Doping is illegal. I'll explain later why he's harmful and unauthorized. Infringement of the anti-doping rules prescribed by this law extends to a large extent in that area, where it is now covered by persons in the field of sport. So far there have been eight in the current law. The new law prescribes two new infringements of anti-doping rules. Infringement of anti-doping rules are the presence of an illicit doping substance, refusal to carry out anti-doping control, possession of an illicit substance, non-fulfilment of the obligation that every athlete has to daily inform the International Anti-doping Agency and the National Anti-doping Agency of his movements and his residence, giving or attempting to distribute illicit doping funds, obstruction of anti-doping control and two new infringements of the anti-doping rules are complicity and association. Why did we come in with these two new provisions? Because we wanted to reduce the responsibility of athletes. It has been shown that not only athletes are the main culprits for taking illicit substances, but that to a large extent this ungrateful credit, the negative people in the field of sports, the people who are in direct contact and the people who help athletes develop it. One of the examples that you all know is the world example of sportsman Leoms Armstrong who has repeatedly won all the medals. The subsequent examination of the sample found that he was using illicit doping funds, and also the main responsibility was recognised by his entire professional staff team, director of his team for achieving better results and signing better marketing contracts. These two provisions deal with this very negative phenomenon. Honestly, I think it's very important to expand this activity to include all the actors in the sport itself. Those who help athletes are considered coaches, educators, directors, medical staff, physiotherapists and other persons who are in direct contact with the athlete himself. Under the mandated anti-doping organisation is considered the Anti-doping Agency of Serbia, the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia, the Border National Alliance, the International Anti-doping Agency, the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee and international sports organisations. What is the paper in this law is the rights and obligations of the Anti-doping Agency and the Anti-doping Agency, primarily of which the data, in which way it collects and distributes data, and this is about personality data, i.e. about the trusted data of the athlete himself. We wanted to establish a clear responsibility of the Antidoping Agency and the director himself, because he has confidential information from the athlete himself. Data collected are basic personal data and health data. Until now, a unique number of citizens has never been taken, there was no need to enter so much into the privacy of the athlete himself, because at the international level such information does not matter. Only the personal and basic data of athletes and, of course, health data are taken. What it is is the main dilemma is to publish the very details of every athlete's personality. The Anti-doping Agency is obliged to notify national border alliances, international sports Federations, as well as the International Anti-doping Agency of violations of one or more anti-doping rules. The phenomenon of publishing the task itself is to publish on the internet and such a measure is always questioned why one personal information is made available to a wide public mass, but for the simple reason it is necessary to inform all the actors in the injury sport and to prohibit the participation of the athlete himself in the competition. The obligations set out in this law apply to all sports organisations established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law applies to animals as well. The animals in which we are tested are horses, on an international level are dogs and horses, and there is a possibility for some other animals if there is a need for them in the future. Sportsmen and other participants are obliged to allow uninterrupted anti-doping control. The Anti-doping Agency regulates the way anti-doping controls are conducted. Anti-doping control is conducted by an authorised licensed anti-doping controller who is required to pass education, an officially authorised test, after having, in the presence of an authorised, anti-doping control attends anti-doping control, for the third time having the right to carry out anti-doping control, but with the presence of an authorised, and only after that, for the fourth time can he perform anti-doping control on his own. There are 36 anti-doping controllers in Serbia who are currently conducting anti-doping controls. Using urine and blood samples, antidoping controls are carried out. Infrequently, human hair is also taken, as it has been shown that in hair hair the most remaining illicit substances are as measurable and as visible. There must be an authorized, licensed laboratory to be sent samples. There is no such authorized laboratory in Serbia. It has proved necessary at the annual level to have 3,000 reviews to prove the laboratory to be financially profitable. The anti-doping agency of Serbia uses an authorised laboratory in Vienna, Austria, of course, following public procurement, laid down by the Law on Public Procurement of the Republic of Serbia. This law prescribes and is much more detailed in caring for the duties and obligations of the national border alliances themselves. We consider national border alliances to be equal partners in the implementation of all legal frameworks, including in this, and we consider their role as crucial to the extent that it is primarily necessary to inform the National Anti-doping Agency and the Ministry of Sports, because they are in direct contact daily with a sportsman and can first see when a athlete uses an illicit doping agent or have an infringement of one or more doping rules. The basic obligations of the national border alliances themselves are to bring sports rules, to bring disciplinary measures, to implement disciplinary measures, to provide athletes with annual medical examinations and medical monitoring, to sanction the athlete and take away the result, to ban athletes from working in the field of sports, and what I find very important, in order to increase the number of reviews at the annual level of the Antidoping Agency, to conduct in the final and semi-final games of the national doping control championship. National border alliances which do not comply with the provisions of this article shall be exempt from public revenue, i.e. they do not have the possibility of obtaining funds from public revenue. These provisions also apply to other sports associations, sports associations, sports organisations and professional sports associations. The Alliance is obliged to deliver its sports rules to the Anti-doping Agency and to the competent sports ministry. This law stipulates that the Alliance can request extraordinary anti-doping control, precisely for the reasons I mentioned, that it is in direct contact with a sportsman and that the Union can first spot the very violation of the anti-doping rules. Antidoping control can be carried out even outside the competition. It is one of the dilemmas that is run not only in legal frameworks, but also in sport, because the Antidoping Agency is able to come to the apartment of the athlete himself and to exercise control. I'll try to explain in the shortest lines. Each athlete is required, from Article 3(4), to inform the National Anti-doping Agency of his movements to his residence. It is necessary that during the day it fills out a form where it will clearly write where it will be during the day, where training and mandatory hour will be performed where it will be. It's a conditional obligation, but the athlete chooses whether he wants to fill out such a form and whether he wants to undergo antidoping control. No one conditions a athlete to have to, but when he accepts such a commitment then he is obliged to do such a thing that in the world of sports, each athlete's personal hygiene. In practice, athletes usually put their home address, i.e. The address of the residence and putting in early morning hours to make sure that they will be there and will not harm the rules of the Antidoping Agency. Some of the things that have a big echo in the public are measures that can be prescribed by the International Anti-doping Agency or by an international sports organisation. Some of the measures that were not very acceptable to us and which came upon great disdain is the Troickski case, when he was banned from entering the "Belgrade Arena" himself at the Davis Cup finale. It is a provision prescribed by the International tennis organization itself. I have to point out, they're the only ones who prescribed it, no other international sports organization has prescribed it, and the athlete is obliged to apply all the rules of his international organisation. I note this because there was a great controversy about this, there was a big echo in the public, but this is one of the things a athlete has to apply himself, because he is aware of the sanctions that can be imposed in case the provisions are not applied. Other disciplinary measures that are pronounced for infringement of anti-doping rules are disqualification of sports results, temporary suspension, withdrawal of sports results, ban on participation in competitions and bans on doing business in the sport system. During the duration of the said anti-doping rule, a athlete loses his right to the national categorization of athletes. Furthermore, this law prescribes the obligations of the Antidoping Agency. The Anti-doping Agency is established as an institution and as such has two bodies: the Management Board of Anti-doping Agency and the Director of the Anti-dumping Agency. The basic activity of the Antidoping Agency is to carry out antidoping control. What I have already mentioned several times is that it is also doing education, preventing the very negative appearance in sport, because it has shown, especially I have to point out with us in Serbia, that the great role of the Antidoping Agency has played in preventing all these negative phenomena, because our athletes, again, have taken some substances out of ignorance and have not been aware of the consequences they can have. On this occasion, I must also really commend the Antidoping Agency of Serbia, which has conducted over 5,000 reviews so far, where it has been found that 50 athletes have been positive for the doping test. The Antidoping Agency is doing two confidential jobs, which is the look of doping free stamps and publishing a list of illicit doping funds. The Anti-doping Agency is obliged to publish two entrusted jobs in the Official Messenger as well. The Anti-doping Agency's Management Board is composed of members of the competent ministry in the field of sports, the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia, prominent experts in the field of medicine, pharmacology, veterinary and one representative of the Cassation Court. What's the paper of the law itself is a compliance with the 2006 Constitution. Namely, the International Anti-doping Agency and all sports organisations at international level prohibit the presence of a national judiciary in making these decisions, especially in making second-degree decisions. To agree with the 2006 Constitution, it is no longer called a confidential job, second-degree decision and procedure, but public authority. They have also avoided disagreements, and this law has largely agreed with the terminology of international frameworks, so it is no longer a lawsuit, it is an application, not to associate it with the case itself. On the obligations and rights of the Antidoping Agency itself, I noted in Article 4, in order to collect information of the importance of the athlete himself. This is to the most extent a change in the new law, as the director of the Antidoping Agency is directly responsible for all information of importance. This law also prescribes supervision for application. Oversight of the application of this law, inspection supervision shall be carried out by the competent ministry through sports inspectors. A sports inspector controls activities and measures in accordance with this law. The sports inspector has been authorised to temporarily withdraw records, documentation and illicit doping substance, to prohibit athletes from participating in the competition, to prohibit athletes from working in the field of sports, to order the harmonisation of legal acts, to ask the Anti-doping Agency to carry out anti-doping control and to file a report for a criminal offence or to initiate a misdemeanor procedure. This law abolishes one crime, which is the use of doping funds. It has not been possible to establish only a criminal offence at the international level so far, as it could not prove its intention to use doping. In practice this means that we couldn't prove whether the athlete used an illicit doping agent to be a better athlete, to have better results or used it for his own personal reasons. No court proceedings have been filed with us, and I must say that no verdict has been reached at the international level. This law prescribes two criminal provisions, which enables the use of doping and unauthorized production and placing on the market of doping. Penalties for these crimes have been reduced because they are adapted to criminal acts for narcotics under the Criminal Code, and fines for offences have been increased and are variable because the current law has provided fixed fines for infringement of the anti-doping rules. This law gives the possibility of more flexible to some extent punishment, but also fines for violations are in line with the current Sport Act. At the shortest this is what I wanted to present to you something we did in the previous period. I said I'd tell you why doping is bad for athletes, why it's illegal and why it's harmful. If we're talking about sports itself, three things are negative when it comes to doping itself. First thing, it's harmful to every athlete's health. It has been shown that athletes who use doping to a large extent are destroying their health and thus destroying the appearance of the entire sport. The other thing that makes it a bad anti-doping is a fair play. A sportsman who applies illicit substances, who takes doping funds, is not equal with a non-received athlete, thus destroying the basics of sports ethics. The third thing, which may be the most important, is this social aspect where athletes, especially for children and young people, are the synonyms of something pure and great. They're idols for young generations, they're the ones young people look up to. I think it's necessary to pass a law like this just to prevent the collapse of one ideology and something that we're all trying to do together. What else is important to pass this law? Our athletes, starting from 01.01.2015, will not be able to compete on an international stage, in international competitions in case this law is not passed. I'm at my disposal to answer some doubts and some questions. And as I am ready for quality suggestions and I am truly here because it is in the interest of us to pass this law for our children, for the health of the nation and for all that sport represents in the world, because we want to be not only recognizable in the world by sports results, we want to be recognizable in the world and in the legal and legal frameworks that adorn sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10198	I thank Minister Widow. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Žika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10199	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we are talking about an extremely important topic and the topic itself confirms the necessity of what my colleagues and I have spoken about several times so far from various parliamentary groups, and that is the necessity to form a Assembly Committee on Sports and Youth, which once worked very well. I think that this topic is another indicator of how much we miss this committee, because I think we could cross this committee even better, let me say, the arguments we have and that MPs themselves have much better bill proposals and much better discussion and much better solutions to adopt. It is my special honor to say, and as the newly elected president of the Sports Union of the city of Somboro, I have the opportunity to talk about sports in this great building, because sport is something that is most beautiful, best and happiest when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and, in particular, we MPs and politicians need to understand when it comes to sports subjects, because many athletes unfortunately have done a lot more for us for this country than politics has done in recent decades. Today we are talking about anti-doping, a topic that is extremely important and, as the minister himself said, anti-doping represents a set of coordinated activities aimed at protecting and preserving the sports spirit as well as preserving the improvement of the health of athletes regardless of whether they are professionals or amateurs. Antidoping can also be seen as a programme consisting of several steps. These are promotions directed towards prevention, the adoption of rules of conduct, the adoption of a list of banned methods and substances, the way in which control is carried out, the taking of measures and the implementation of sanctions against offenders, the provision of fair conditions for athletes subject to control, coordination and co-operation and other necessary measures and steps. The most correct, as humanly said, however, to view anti-doping as one complex form so, as well as philosophy i.e. life style and as a program, i.e. a set of rules that enable this lifestyle to be implemented into action, i.e. to become a reality. Anti-doping as a phenomenon rests on the idea of Olympicism, or the idea that it doesn't matter if you win, it matters how you fight. The anti-doping movement was founded by supporters of the idea that winning the spirit over the body is the greatest victory that can be achieved and the goal of playing sports, not the other way around. The goal of sports is to preserve health, and the use of doping means makes it impossible to lead a healthy life. The point of anti-doping is to return the values that have been rejected. And when we talk about all the values that we have rejected as a people, the question is, is that possible? Perhaps the problem lies in one of the human traits, which is a constant tendency to gain new heights, in the inability to meet already achieved. Something so famous, not just athletes, but maybe a lot more to us politicians. Some theorists believe the media has stimulated the application of doping while business has made it possible to put an end to "i". When we talk about key anti-doping and campaign factors, we must first say that there is coordination and consistency. Antidoping as a program has absolutely no meaning unless carried out consistently. Promotion as a phase allows antidoping from the sphere of sport to be transferred to the sphere of everyday life, since the consequences of doping have an impact not all society, on all spheres of life, and not just on one, not on sport as one of human activities. The coordination, of course, allows for exchanges of experiences while consistent application of the rules enables a strong structure that has a minimum of weak points to be formed and which is stable towards achieving the desired goal. Secondly, perhaps the most important, which is that it's a depolitical sport. Sport is still in some countries under the leadership that is unprofessional or uninterested in changing the situation thus preventing the realization of quality system access. Unfortunately, we didn't go far either. One of the problems that arises from all this lack of adequate legislation to help implement quality and effective anti-doping measures. Constant professional training, of course, professional training as well as all spheres of life as well as in sports is vital. Permanent investment in research and development, of course, is necessary both in order to prevent stimuli and methods, so as to find new ways of increasing work skills, athletes who are safe by health and who do not insult the sports spirit. There are other numerous factors, but these represent, I'd dare tell the base. What is vital to success is focus, i.e. The unification of all these functions, i.e. elements, and that unification can only be achieved through quality management. When we talk about anti-doping in Serbia, we all know that the situation is not great. The use of illicit stimulants does not represent an unknown in our premises, and it is freely said that in no respect, at least when the use of doping methods and means in question I am not lagging behind developed countries in this case unfortunately. What is characterized by the application of the doping method, the means in our premises is a high dose of amateurism, which is an important risk factor. At the same time, this has a negative impact on the perspective of Serbian sports as well as on the reputation of our sport. The problem of starting serious doping programs and campaigns is not only interests, nor the fact that sport in us is still a highly politicised activity, but also the fact that in Serbia there is still no precise law on the ban on the use of stimulating funds. Only in the new proposal of the Sport Act is it mentioned among other things that athletes are obliged to allow and allow doping control, and those who get or avoid it would be told the extent of the anti-doping rules as well as that on the anti-doping test they were positive, which we had the case to see when it comes to some of our athletes in the past period, including our tennis player Viktor Troicki. No anti-doping program, no matter how good it is, is worth absolutely nothing without the involvement of human resources, and that's a fact. A special problem of the performance and the fact that there are not enough professional staff and the fact that there is no pre-prepared ground for conducting an anti-doping campaign. The special story is also the fact that anti-doping campaigns and programmes are very expensive, i.e. they require high financial expenditure, and in our country the rule is still in force that funding from the budgets that are intended to finance sports companies is distributed not by purpose or without feeling for the needs and perspective of concrete sport. Of course, it is worth mentioning that our clubs are often not subject to mandatory health suggestions. We've had terrible cases where young boys and girls were dying, and they weren't even full-aged, which, of course, is an additional risk factor, and, at the same time, points to a deep crisis in which our sport is located. All the above must have a very bad impact on sports health as well as on activities on our fields, as well as on the reputation of our sport in the world. The newspaper on our premises presents and this should be welcomed, preparing for the introduction of mandatory anti-doping controls into the Meridian Super League, which has so far been unimaginable. What's important in mind is the fact that the procedure for control prescribed by UEFA and FIFA is very strict. For example, UEFA and FIFA insist on testing even after friendly games. The question is whether all of our clubs, not just football clubs, that we know how they work, will be able to bear such high costs. This raises the issue of discrimination against individual clubs, more specifically those from underdeveloped environments and whether there will be a sport of upper layers in our country. What are the possible solutions and I'll be as specific as possible. It's illusory to talk about some fantastic sums that our country should single out in order for the state of sports in our country, either in terms of doping, or in general, to raise to a higher level, or rather to a more civilized level. The solution lies in the sphere of private capital and interested and motivated investors. This situation stems from the fact that rarely when there is a payment of the original amount planned by the budget, let alone the payment of additional amounts to which sports workers count. We can freely say that order of action is being imposed in itself and that is to say my concrete proposal. Under one, solid legal regulations, i.e. The exact law on sports. Sublegal act related to the use of stimulants and methods. Giving the status of intoxicating and health-hazarding means to all the means used to increase work and sports skills, which offend the sports spirit. A ban on the use of inhumans and on the health of dangerous methods aimed at increasing ability. Solid internal regulations in sports alliances, societies and associations. High and strict sentences, which is very important. Co-ordination at all levels so that all the documents delivered would not be a dead letter on paper. It's the depoliticization of sports again. It's full of mouths, but I can't make any concrete moves. Transferring sports activities planning and sports promotion strategies to those qualified to adopt such plans, not favouring politically similar experts. The most difficult phase that thanks to the mentality of these spaces can sometimes be qualified by the term utopia. It is vital, the question is often asked whether this should be the first step, and only then the adoption of legislation, but the best solution is to make rules, and later the same rules will be adapted to changes. The appointment of Mr. Udovic as Minister of Sports is something that breaks past practice and I think everyone who is involved in sports and loves him must support something like this. Privatisation of sports companies, when the frameworks are set, should go to the privatisation of major sports companies, in order to allow healthy evolution of sports in these areas. Of course, the question arises: What about those sports companies that are not rentable, or that will not be able to cash as easily as we all think. One solution is certainly to create a strategic plan that would allow funds to be rerouted so as to say to poorly developed areas as well as constant stimulation for the promotion of clubs without perspective, they would not be paralysed. Professional training at all levels, as we have already said, is important for all spheres of society, as well as for sport, and a very important role in the promotion of sport, both activities and sports spirit, as well as the code of values, certainly play and education. The expertise of all staff is crucial, and professional education should not only apply to coaches and staff closely linked to activities that take place at the level of clubs, but also to teaching staff in education, which is extremely important. Also, people who participate in making plans, creating a strategy, making decisions related to the distribution of funds, because knowledge is the key to making optimal solutions. I would put research and development at the end, although it is an extremely important thing, an inseparable part of the strategy, and changes are dynamic, both in the sphere of production, discovery, methods and substances, and in the sphere of finding ways to conceal the use of them. What is also important, and should be added in my personal opinion, should be kept in mind that the best strategy is a flexible strategy, and that no matter how good a solution may be, it is not necessary to follow the method of copying the landscape and mechanically taking over solutions from countries that have advanced on this issue. I think we've been burned several times on this issue, when it comes to law-making, which we've just prescribed from the EU. Professional sports, no doping, I said it was some kind of utopia. On the basis of all of this, a rational man should not be a problem, to conclude that doping law should be strictly prohibited in all its emerging forms, since it is harmful and pointless. However, doping is despite all campaigns, penalties and threats, taking away medals, titles, severe diseases that have hit the biggest legends of sports still active, the method continues to invest huge numbers in the development of substances and, of course, to the question why, no one has a precise answer. It is obvious that when a person strives to achieve the impossible and at the same time does not want to admire a person who is like him, a person who has achieved everything by hard work and who seems perfectly normal, except that he has the best fit and the best results. It's an inseparable need of a human being and to seek and cultivate a super idol as being above, of course. A professional athlete is expected to give more than an ordinary human being, which is common to human beings, to achieve superhuman results, and all for the pleasure of a wide audience in order to generalise abnormal profits. Consumer society requires consumer goods that bring fun, and thanks to their characteristics, it fits this description perfectly, and therefore, Mr. Minister, regardless of your goodwill, to arrange the situation in sport, I do not have much optimism in the sense that the change of this law will bring some significant gain. However, it should try to change the situation, because not only is there a professional sport and it is not the only goal of sport, the generation of profits, but also the pleasure of doing the same. The SPO and DHSS appreciate the efforts of the competent ministry and the minister, the Ministry of Sports and Youth and in the voting day, will support this bill, as well as any good ideas coming from this ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10200	The word has an authorised representative, MP Velimir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10201	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the use of unauthorized funds, or the use of doping by athletes, is unfortunately a widespread phenomenon at global level. Therefore, so widespread that all relevant international, sports and other institutions have been involved for many years in the fight against doping and all activities related to this, and among them the International Olympic Committee, the World Anti-doping Agency, UNESCO, as well as the Council of Europe, as the sponsor of the most important international conventions to prevent doping in sport. We must admit that in the era of general commercialization, modern sport has long overcome the Olympic password – it is important to participate and transform into something that we could freely call – winners are remembered, and combat sports sites are increasingly reminded of gladiatoric arenas, where very often the use of illicit funds is also used. Given the fact that all countries in the world, without exception, recognize success in the field of sports, as a matter of prestige, regardless of the nature of the political regime, the socio-economic order, the economic and social status of the population, it is not unusual for doping to be used, unfortunately, in some cases, and with the blessing of the national sports alliances themselves. There are numerous well-known cases in practice, even at the highest level where the use of unauthorized funds has occurred, with the aim of achieving success in the competition, and some of them have been proven and, of course, adequately processed, and some have not been proven to date over the results and successes achieved, the majority of the shadow of suspicion remains. Some of us certainly remember the period of the 70s and 80s of the last century, when the then cold war dimension, the political dimension, above all, may have been best manifested in the field of sports and certainly culminated in a reciprocal boycott, summer Olympic games in 1980 and 1984. It can be said that the then Democratic Republic of Germany is a real synonym for, to date, fully proven use of doping, practically at the state level, all in order to compromise against its western neighbour, as well as in general, capitalist social arrangement. Of course, this did not take care of the health of athletes, and it was important for an anthem to be heard as often as possible in the biggest sports competitions. The accent was then placed, primarily on base sports, on athletics and swimming, and was thought to have gone the farthest in this field at the time of East German, pharmaceutical and chemical laboratories. And after a few decades, we have valid world records, e.g. In athletics at 400 and 800 meters, for women. It's interesting, for example. thinking about a famous swimmer in the '80s and she said – it's true that I was doped, when I set the world record and it was early in the '80s, and she confessed 20 years later, but I don't think she should have deleted it. In fact, at that time practically all the swimmers were doped, and I was the fastest, because I trained more than they did, so in a way it can be said that I shot him down in an equal fight. This statement itself goes in favor of the fact that doping at the time was a minor common phenomenon and that only the question was whether it would be revealed or not. Perhaps another more striking example, the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games, the Canadian sprinter, Ben Johnson, knocks the world record at 100 meters, its own world record, a year old, but soon it's been erased, because it's proven to have been using steroids several years ago. Another frantic piece of information for that famous 1988 race, as many as 6 out of 8 participants were at one point, proved to have used unauthorized funds during their careers. Of course, in the end, and what you, Mr. Minister, mentioned, is a fresh example, the seven-time and consecutive winner of the Tour de France, Levs Armstrong, whom the American Anti-doping Agency, based on the code of the World Anti-doping Agency, has punished for life, by banning all sports activities, has taken away all seven titles of the Tour de France, stating that – he designed, prepared and implemented the most professional and successful programme that the world has ever seen. When the above examples are considered, and they only represent, let me say, the tip of the iceberg is quite justified that our current law, as well as this proposal that we are discussing today, provide very harsh sanctions against those who are breaking, otherwise taxively listed anti-doping rules. It also looks forward to knowing, of course, that the Anti-Doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia has been recognised as one of the most recognized species in the world, as well as the fact that we are very up-to-date in monitoring all changes in this area. First of all, the education of all participants in the current process is recognised as very important and therefore I think it's article 10. It provides that the competent sports alliance is obliged to ensure, in collaboration with the Anti-doping Agency, that members of the alliance, especially sports experts and registered athletes of all ages, are continuously, and at least once a year, informed and educate on the applicable rules relating to doping in sport, and in particular on the adverse health consequences resulting from the use of doping funds. As for Article 10, I also think that it is in place and prescribed financial sanctions to the Sports Alliance which does not respect the required obligations in this area, by abolishing the inflow of funds from the budget, as well as the obligation of the Alliance itself to fully deny the financing of athletes who do not respect the applicable anti-doping rules. It is also, of course, justified by the provision of Article 17(2), which provides that the person to whom an anti-doping rule has been imposed cannot, during the time the measure is in force, carry out any work in the field of sports in the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I believe that the proposed fines are adequate at their height, both for sports organisations and for individuals who are in violation of anti-doping rules. Namely, the proposal for this law prescribes new criminal acts, and threatened adequate prison sentences in order to enable the use of doping means of athletes, as well as unauthorized production and placing on the market of doping funds. At the very end, given the justification for the need to bring our national legislation into line with international regulations in this area, as well as the fact that sport was, of course, one of our biggest bids, when it comes to promoting the state of Serbia, and that, of course, athletes in the right sense of that word, our country's ambassadors on all meridians, the New Serbia parliamentary group will, in the day to vote, unreservedly support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10202	Thank you, Mr. Stanoevich. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10203	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out at first that the JS Parliamentary Group will support the bill to prevent doping in sport, in principle, and I am certain in particular, for two reasons. The first is the formal nature, so to speak, and that is what the existing law that we now have and which is currently in force is long ago in 2005. Meanwhile, Serbia, as is known, ratified the International Convention for the Prevention of Doping in Sports in 2009. In addition, the World Anti-Doping Agency adopted certain codes as well as other international organisations, which must be sanctioned by laws, national alliances, or states, in order, as the minister said, to keep our athletes from competing in certain competitions for which they are being prepared and registered. Also, as a party that has always supported the country's efforts to join the EU as soon as possible and to pass such a law and comply with other EU regulations and world rules governing matter, we must support and adopt a new law to prevent doping in sport. However, for us from the JS parliamentary club, other practical reasons are very important for supporting this law, which is that by voting for this law and adopting this law, we want to prevent young people and those around them from dealing with some unfair, illegal, immoral things in order to achieve a certain result in sport, but rather to direct these young people and their energy to healthy sports, healthy training, healthy nutrition and to really talent and work on training and sports fields as the only criterion for achieving certain European and world results. It is known that the party I belong to is investing a lot of money where there is a chance that we can separate young people from cafes, from drugs, from alcohol, from sports, and by passing this law we will prevent them from using some substances that can harm their health if they want to practice sports. It is not new to say that sportsmen are not always guilty when they are found to have used some means or substance to achieve a better result either in individual or in team sport, and with that in particular as a representative group of JS we welcome Article 30. A bill that provides for harsh penalties for all those who produce or put on the market these substances that harm, we must say, the health of athletes, but in some ways help to achieve some better result than the current opportunities of that athlete give him that he can achieve some result. So by applying these sanctions, as well as by applying fines for all those who disobey these sports rules, I would say not only sports but also moral, ethical rules in sport, they should set an example for others not to deal with it, but only talent and work on training, as I said, is the only way to achieve good results in sport. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, as a Parliament club, you would be recommended, if possible, that all possible fines of money collected by those who in any way misappropriate themselves in the application of this law and use illicit means to achieve better results, focus on building new sports courts, halls, swimming pools, etc., and that there are those young people who want to be honest, honest and sporting sports sports and to participate in sports competitions and to achieve good results in accordance with their capabilities. These penalties, which are provided for, or foreseen by Article 39, for those, as I said, which put into circulation or produce these substances, should be applied most rigorously, because people who deal with it sometimes lead an athlete into error to achieve some result through which some material goods, financial goods, actually do not deserve it with their abilities, their current healthy, if they were healthy, abilities played out on the ground by any and in any kind of sport. For this reason, I would not owe much, we welcome the ministry's efforts to regulate this area in an adequate way, to prevent all those who think that they can use certain illegal funds, illicit substances, from giving themselves the opportunity to achieve some result that they can't really achieve at some point. It's not just about individual sports and team sports, unfortunately, there are a lot of individuals who use illicit substances to achieve a better result. Sometimes they stay unpunished because it's impossible, if it's some sports team that counts as football 11 players and with 20 players' reserves, or, I don't know, handball, basketball, etc., to all go to antidoping control. On the other hand, there is certainly a athlete who honorably and, fortunately, it is the majority, fairly within the limits of their sports and physical capabilities, struggle to achieve a good result. For this reason, we think that these penalties should be strictly applied in the future, in order to prevent any thought that someone in an dishonest, immoral, illegal way achieves, the first sports result, and that sport result gives the possibility to obtain certain other social, material and any other recognitions. So continue, Mr. Minister, in the application of this law. By the JS parliamentary club, you will have full support, because we are fighting and we just want the field and training before going to the field to be the only criterion where the athlete will achieve some result, not using other means. Therefore, only honorably, sportically and legally to achieve the result and thus to achieve certain privileges that society offers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10204	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word is by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here I will try to say in a few minutes some of my vision and vision of our parliamentary group on the bill we're discussing today, which is the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. First of all, I would just like to say a few words to Mr. Secretary, because for this time since this assembly meeting, we have been discussing about 70 and some laws, 60 and some of the laws have been by emergency procedure, and I congratulate you and your ministry for giving the law to the Assembly that goes according to the law and the prescribed procedure where there was a public debate, where all the relevant ones could give their own judgment and where we received this law in time, so those who were interested could read, consult and say something other than praise, which is someone's thinking and thinking about this law and what he's implying and what the consequences are. What's my objection is that the report on the public debate is very difficult to find. Believe me, it takes a man to understand his computer and hack to find this report. There is not enough data in the report, which were suggestions from the sports alliances, the Olympic Committee. It's a very stupid explanation. It was said that it was only technical issues. You should still be interested in this matter, and we want to read it, so at least we can see what it's all about, not be conclave records. I hope you'll put those reports in the set in the future. The second suggestion, according to the Legislative Policy Resolution, is that the law requires the submission and model of sublegal acts to see how you will apply this law and how it will live up to it and how it will have its positive effects that have led to it in the end line and passed. I expect you to deliver this to the National Assembly in the coming period, although in principle it is one of the manners of all these laws that have come into congregation procedure so far. We haven't seen any sublegals, which is very important, because I'm a law without a sublegal act doesn't mean anything. It could be a dead letter on paper. I'll talk about it a little later, because the 2005 law probably didn't have a quality sublaw and involved everything that happened between 2005 and 2014 compared to one side of the agency and the ministry, and on the other hand, the Alliance of our athletes in Serbia. I wouldn't really talk about the members of the law, because that's what we'll talk about when we talk about the day we discuss in particular, but I'd like a few notes about the report, so I've experienced it, for the period from 2005 to 2014. About the reasons for this bill, a lot of my colleagues have been fully elaborated, and I wouldn't waste my time on it. It is evident that if we want to continue to participate in international competitions, we must adopt this law as it is or with some change in these two days, in order to prevent the possible disqualification of our representatives in sports in international competitions. What intrigued me and I will try to read, since I do not have much time to meet my colleagues and citizens what it is that burned my ears while I read the report: In the past period of over 100 national alliances in the Republic of Serbia, 56 national sports associations have fulfilled the obligation of Article 10. It's the law to prevent doping in sports. For the purposes of reminding our viewers, Article 10 refers to the competences of sports alliances that are required to: 1) the sport rules establish disciplinary measures and the offices of the procedures of their pronunciation in the cases of established anti-doping rules in accordance with this law and ensure that the procedure for making the persons responsible for doping respect their personality and the right to proper legal protection; 2) to ensure within the frameworks of the competence of the Alliance to athletes, sports experts and other persons for whom the doping is determined the proper discipline in accordance with this law and the rules of the competent andidoping organisation; 3) not to recognise the sport, sports experts and other persons whose achievement was involved in the doping of athletes; 4) not to allow participation in the sport preparation of athletes, sports expert and other persons with the authority of the National Sport Organisation; 3) not to recognise the necessary results of sports activities of the relevant to which are relevant and the relevant to the relevant articles of the relevant to be adopted by the law and anti-replictions; You will agree with me that apart from the repressive measures proposed by this law, there are a lot of members here who talk about the obligation of sports alliances to educate athletes. So, it's not the essence of our lawmaking, of punishing someone and moving away from the battlefield, but of protecting sports, protecting fair play, protecting the health of athletes, preventing the use of unauthorized funds. About what is now all the means that counts as a doping agent is one broad leprosy. Except for those classic anabolics and steroids, there are a lot of chemicals and preparations that count as doping, and people use them in a normal daily diet. This education is extremely important, and you, Mr. Minister, with the Agency should make the most of your involvement in the implementation of this law in the coming period. What is very important and why this sublegal act is needed is a devastating fact that over the past nine years 56 national sports alliances have applied part of the regulations, i.e. part of the instructions proposed by the 2005 Law, and the others were deafened. I think you'll have serious problems with sports alliances that are major sports alliances in Serbia, that I don't bid them, and that I don't quote them, they're familiar to all of us, because trying to convince them and scare them by removing donations from the Republic budget has, in my opinion, been incomplete so far, ineffective. The mere fact that in the past nine years they have not applied the instructions of the Agency to combat the use of illicit funds and the Ministry of Health speaks of their relationship to what the Republic of Serbia signs and accepts as an act. It'll be a basic problem for you. So I think that the sublegal act that is based on the law that we are going to adopt under this dynamic the day after tomorrow should be taken very seriously and that, with cooperation with your expert team, which, as I have already said, has been very well processed and proposed by this law, with all the explanations and accompanying documentation, you have to do very well in relation to the sublegal acts that may have been passed in 2005, I say eventually because we don't see whether they existed here at all. There are some of us who have been MPs since this year, so at least we should say what acts have been brought and what we are changing. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, it's, I mean, quality done. The other members, as I said, will be discussed when we discuss the amendments we have submitted to this bill. I hope you can analyze them and everything that you think is good for you. We have proposed them out of the desire to make this law even more quality, and I repeat, it is very important what sublegal acts you will bring, because from what you can see, from this bill and the explanations of the bill, it is seen that the 2005 law has been partially applied, that as a result, not only is the law not respected by the Alliance, but we have a great lack of information from our athletes on the application of doping funds, as I say and I repeat, the basic role is first to educate, and only afterwards to punish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10206	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10207	I thank you for your suggestions and for your commendation. Your first criticism of the lack of a report on public debate, I must say that there were no suggestions from the Olympic Committee of Serbia and the Sports Union of Serbia. We followed all the suggestions from the public debates, conducted a detailed and broad public debate. I attended personally on a particular one, precisely because I wanted to give meaning to this subject, and also to hear direct advice from people who are directly subject to these legal provisions. I'll deliver all that stuff to you, but I have to admit it wasn't much and there weren't much constructive ideas. The public debate itself lasted for a short time, precisely because it is a bit of a specific subject to be discussed. Generally, some questions were related to animal testing, i.e. Doping animals, since it's a new area, an area that's not close to everyone, so the most questions were from all that, but we'll take over the obligation and we'll send you, so you won't ask, because it's really wrong. As far as sublegal acts are concerned, they are brought by the Antidoping Agency. There's six of them. It'll be delivered and of course we'll send it to you. Some of these are lists of illicit substances, i.e. two lists. One is for athletes, and one is for animals, obligations of athletes, therapeutic exemption, special rules and determining responsibility and athletes. Of course the Anti-doping Agency will bring these sub-legal acts in the next two months and deliver them to both the Ministry and to the Members of the People. The question of Article 10 and the determination of direct and concrete obligations of the alliances themselves, of course, because we have seen these shortcomings ourselves, shared that information with you, which is why we have entered into more concrete obligations of the alliances themselves. Of course we think education is the best form of prevention. Like I said, that's what it turned out to be. Constant education has proved to be good, and that is why doctors who may not have been even addressed so far may not know, we are trying to raise the responsibility of doctors themselves, that I am a sportsman in a conversation with a doctor has an obligation to inform him that he is a categorized athlete and that antidoping control is being carried out over him. It went a long way, this law, to directly establish the obligations and rights of the alliances and doctors themselves and all those factors who participate in the work of athletes, and we have entered in detail. That is why we have proposed a new law, because we believe that much has changed compared to the 2005 Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10208	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10209	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would agree with your recent finding. Much has changed since 2005, when the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports was passed to date. By considering the provisions of the current law, it is good that you have not proposed amendments and amendments to the law, you have already come out entirely with a new legislative proposal. Also, at the beginning of my presentation, I want to do one chronology when it comes to the adoption of all important acts that regulate this extremely important and important issue in the field of sports. As you said yourself, the current Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports was adopted in 2005 and it was in line with the European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in the Sports of the Council of Europe and with the World Anti-doping Code, which was adopted, I believe, in 2003. In 2009, the United States of The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the International Convention to Prevent Doping in Sports. According to the convention, Serbia has taken over a kind of commitment as a signator, and that is most important, to strengthen the fight to prevent doping in sport. This International Convention prescribes and defines that the signatories of the Convention must apply those basic provisions uniformly when it comes to the World Anti-doping Code. I've already said, the World Anti-doping Code was adopted, it seems to me, in 2003, came into force in 2004, suffered some changes, to come into force in 2009. In 2013, he again suffered some changes and will enter into force with such changes on 1 January 2015. When it comes to the legislative proposal that we are talking about today, of course the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal, it is not a question, it is absolutely not a question. By supporting the proposal that we are talking about today, we actually want to support the two core objectives that are intended to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. The first is to improve, strengthen and strengthen the fight to prevent doping in sport, and the second is to bring the area in line with all those changes that took place in the meantime, when it comes to international documents. It is true, you said, that the adoption of this legislative proposal is in some way an international obligation. By adopting this legislative proposal, Serbia fulfils its international obligation. It is also important to adopt this legislative proposal in order to bring our legal legislation into line with the World Anti-doping Code, which I have mentioned for a little while, and with international standards. It is true and important that we get that confirmation of compliance with our rules under the rules of the World Anti-doping Code. But I will fully agree with you. Some things, especially when it comes to sports, we should do and work for ourselves. When it comes to a concrete legislative proposal, we do this and do it first and foremost because of all those young people who are currently engaged in sports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and fortunately for us, there are indeed many. They, we want to believe, will be representatives of top sports, they will participate in international competitions and we are convinced, as you once did, to achieve observed results in the interests of your country. Doping is among the other problems that exist today in sport, one of the biggest problems in sport and as far as the SPS Parliament Club is concerned, the fight to prevent doping in sport is a strategic goal for us. By adopting this legislative proposal, we want to enable our top athletes to participate in international competitions, because countries that do not comply with their anti-doping rules with the rules of the World Anti-doping Code will not have the right to participate. On the other hand, and you talked about it, by adopting this legislative proposal, Serbia will also meet one of the basic preconditions for it to be the organiser of international competitions. If we make a comparison of the current law, which was adopted in 2005, with the legislative proposal we're talking about today, I think there are several key solutions that are of paramount importance. First of all, defining infringement of the anti-doping rules and in accordance with the World Anti-doping Code, determining that sanctions for infringements of anti-doping rules can also be imposed by the Anti-doping Agency in Serbia, of course in accordance with the rules of the World Anti-doping Code and in accordance with the rules of international sports alliances. What is also important, the rights and obligations of the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia have been defined and I will agree in your conclusion that the Anti-doping Agency has played an extremely important role in regulating this issue in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but both the rights and obligations in the functioning of both sports inspectors and national sports alliances have been regulated. When it comes to criminal provisions, which seems to me to be a short time ago, the harmonisation of criminal justice policy with comparison with legal solutions, as well as with comparable criminal acts under the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, the harmonisation of criminal penalties with the infringements of the Sport Act, and, when we mention the Law on Sports, the terminology of the legal proposal that we are talking about today with the Law on Sports adopted in 2011. This is perfectly logical, given that the current Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports was adopted in 2005. By adopting this legislative proposal, we really want to once again, as a state, for who knows which time to send a message that the prevention of doping in sport has an important place and an important role in the development of sports in Serbia. We are indeed in this regard, I would say, a leader in meeting those world anti-doping standards. I've already said, among other problems that exist today in sports, one of the biggest problems in sports is doping. Indeed, as a Parliament club, we believe that fighting to prevent doping in sports for us is a strategic goal. In order for this strategic goal to be fully realised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, anyone involved in sports must assume one part of the responsibility and one part of the obligations. When I say everyone, I mean both national sports alliances and sports workers and sports organisations and all athletes. The data from the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, which have just been mentioned and concerning the period from 2006 to 2013, unfortunately say that the use of illicit substances for Serbia is not an unknown topic and that unknown substances are unfortunately present in our sport. Of course doping has an impact on the perspective, as well as on the reputation of Serbian sport. However, what we are talking about and when we talk about the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports and, among other things, in the Report of the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, attention is mainly paid to top sports. The Agency's report seems to refer to national competitions. However, I will remind you, the Sport Act is very clear and says that athletes are all those involved in organised physical activity, whether they compete or not. So, athletes are also recreationals who are in an organized way involved in sports in the area that is intended for it. I think that's also an important question and a very important definition when we're talking about preventing doping in sports. Why? One is being asked, for us also an important and key question, one of the key issues. So we had the opportunity to look at the reasons for this legislative proposal for a report by the Antidoping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, but when it comes to national competitions. Are there currently data and has there ever been a control of doping on those who are in an unprofessional way in sports and on those young people, and many are in Serbia today, who are recreationally engaged in sports? If not implemented, the key question for us is what is it that Serbia can and should do to ensure that this kind of control can be carried out with us? For example, the example works, the most famous case where antidoping control is conducted and in fitness clubs is Munich. The city authorities in Munich have decided that their clubs, sports and fitness centres, sports clubs cleanse and liberate from these illicit substances and in continuity have such a kind of control. The rules prohibiting the use of doping to top athletes, I don't think they're going to protect the health of all athletes, and they're not going to solve the problem entirely and the question we're talking about today. An extremely important and important question that we are talking about today, because it seems to me that there are indications that both they are not professional athletes and those who are recreationally engaged in sports that they are susceptible and that they may be using illicit substances that can be defined as doping. Of course, we as a Parliament club support rigorous sanctioning and punishing, anyone who violates the provisions of this law must be rigorously punished, primarily because of young and future generations, as I said a moment ago, who are engaged in sports. It also seems to me that only punishment will not solve the problem entirely and the question that we are talking about today. In addition to a firm and clear legislative regulation that is absolutely necessary, which is inevitable, which represents a first and important step, we must invest in professional training, that is what you were just talking about, we must invest in research, in development. We must invest in preventive action, and a key role in the prevention of the sea and should have education, educational work on the impact of doping on health. It seems to me that both the desire to win and the desire to dominate are some of the reasons why athletes use illicit means, but I'm convinced that's the case. One of the key reasons is the lack of information and ignorance and athletes, but unfortunately many sports workers on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So this isn't a political issue for us as a Parliament club. Simply when we talk about sports, we think that first of all we need to keep in mind all the young people who are currently engaged in sports in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, all we do for sport, every investment in sport is investment in the future, investing in perspective, investing in younger generations. I say this for a simple reason because I am convinced that in the day of the vote, at least according to this legislative proposal we will not be divided into position and opposition and that this legislative proposal will receive the broadest possible support in the republican parliament. Also, I am convinced that the next time you come to the Republic's Parliament, we will have the opportunity to discuss important and important issues in the field of sport at last, and within the Committee on Youth and Sports, before the legislative proposals made by your ministry enter and begin the plenary session. I think there's a lot of issues we need to talk about. As a Parliament club and in the previous session, you know very well, on 20 October 2013, we submitted an initiative and in this conference we submitted an initiative to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with only one goal, to define and establish another committee that will exclusively deal with young people, i.e. the Youth and Sports Committee. Somehow, it is not logical that, in addition to all other obligations, with due respect to colleagues who are in the Committee on Education, Education, Science, Technological Development, Information Development, but with all the obligations they have, at the Committee's meetings and the draft law to prevent doping in sport. It's not impossible, but I don't think it's logical and it's not natural. So, within the government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a resolute ministry dealing with youth and sports. It is logical that within the Republic Parliament we also have a resolution committee to deal with these important issues. There are a lot of issues we need to talk about. We adopted the Youth Act in 2011, the Sport Act. I think there is a time ahead for us to discuss the topic and effects of applying these two very important laws, the roof law when it comes to young people in Serbia and when it comes to sports. I know in this initiative we have your support as Minister for Youth and Sports. I'm grateful for that. I expect that in the next period of time we will also have the support of other colleagues from the parliamentary clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10210	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The Prime Minister, Mr. Vanja Udovicic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10211	Thank you for your suggestions, Mr. Milicevic. I must also point out that, as a matter of fact, the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sports has been taken into account to comply with the conventions. Of course we also care how much we care to be in harmony with international acts, that it is our duty. I must point out that today I am here to propose laws not because someone is making us conditional, but because I feel that we have to act responsibly in all aspects and spheres of life, including in this and that we are doing this for ourselves and not because someone is conditioning us. That's the first thing. So I said at the end, as one of the reasons why it is necessary to bring it, is because it is one condition, but it was primarily shown in the previous period that and how important it is to take care of illicit substances in sports at the highest possible level. You asked a question about professional athletes, recreationals, if there was a report on the anti-doping controls carried out. Anti-doping control is being conducted on all participants in the field of sports, whether it is officially the best in the world or is a recreational to the extent that the moment it trinifies is a registered member of a club. Then he became a sportsman who was subject to doping control and was not so far and over the past ten years, 5,000 doping controls were done. Doping controls also require certain funds to be implemented. One doping control costs about 400 euros, so we tried to increase the ability to carry out anti-doping controls. I'm personal this year for 50%, i.e. by 100% increased doping control in the Republic of Serbia. This year we've had about 1,000 reviews of our athletes, which is the tendency to increase the number every year precisely for reasons of concern for our athletes and primary education. Yes, we influence, the most we go to education with smaller funds, we subject to all alternative opportunities to replace inability and it has proved to be true in practice that it also has such importance when it comes to athletes themselves. Thank you so much again for supporting the Gibeon on suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10212	Thank you, Mr. Widow. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10213	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members, today we are discussing one of the most important laws that has so far appeared in the assembly procedure and, unlike some of my colleagues, because of the importance of this law, I have objections to a public debate that was conducted in the previous period. I tried, like some other colleagues, to get information about a public debate that was conducted, and besides information that the public debate was 30.6 this year, I didn't find any other information. I also have a serious objection to the role of national organisations in this public debate. I was expecting, again, because of the importance of this topic that the Olympic Committee, the Sports Council and other associations give their opinion and, above all, to assist you and your associates in drawing up this significant law. The second question is, why is this a special law? If, in explaining the reasons for the adoption of this law somewhere, it states that the existing Anti-Doping Agency has been doing well since 2005, it is understood that the existing one was also adequate and that at this point it was important to bring some new measures and put it into the old law, but I don't think it's a central issue. You said, respected ministers, in the introduction that the draft law is in line with the International Anti-doping Convention of 2005, that it is also in line with the 2009 World Anti-doping Code, that this is an attempt to bring the law into line with our 2011 Sport Act and to agree with the Constitution. I don't think there are likely any MPs in this room who will find objections to these basic objectives. What I think is extremely important, and what is not sufficiently highlighted in the bill is this review that my colleague previously spoke of, to Article 10. The law, which obviously remains controversial, which is that through the experience that exists from 2005 to 2013, we have found that from more than 100 national organisations, alliances, associations and associations that exist today in Serbia, only 56 organisations respected the law, passed their acts in accordance with the law, established regulations, procedures etc. This speaks not only of what the colleague said that they did not respect the procedure for staying, the digestive system, the information, but simply were out of the system, or the law at some point and did not literally refer to them, which speaks of a large space that exists. I believe that one of the central obligations of this bill was precisely to activate all the potentials that exist in this regard and that through the envisaged legal solutions it comes to the fact that absolutely all national organisations, alliances and associations respect this law, to be included in the system so that, as a society, as a system and a state, we can adequately apply it. Therefore, in the amendments we have proposed as a parliamentary group, we are referring to this link that exists in respect of the law with regard to criminal provisions. We think it's a good idea to raise that degree of punishment that you've predicted here, but the very proposal in some of your members is contradictory. ` I point to this link of Article 10, which the colleague spoke of, with the members of the law who treat that part of the offence where you have that Article 39, which speaks of the alignment of this law with the Criminal Law, provides for legal penalties, namely the execution of the sentence for the perpetrators described here for three to 12 years. In the introduction, the minister said that in this period from 2005, i.e. in 2006 until 2013, there is no example that someone was responsible for the crimes committed, and I associate it somewhere with the fact that perhaps because of these large penalties, people who assess the degree and responsibility of the action are more easily resorting or making decisions to classify it as a violation. Our proposal will be to think about it, we have submitted this as an amendment, that Article 40 point 2 is deleted because it is fully contained in Article 39, or some things are repeated, whether it is sales or distribution, production, etc. So we're going to be in a situation where a man can answer for the same crime and get three years in prison or in this 40th to get a fine of 400,000. Furthermore, Article 42 sets out to bring this law in line with the Law on Sports where almost the same things, i.e. the same acts provide for a fine of 50,000 to 150,000. So, I think this range of 12 years in prison to a fine of 50,000 dinars or an extremely large range that gives a large space for subjective interpretations. I think that, if the intensity was to comply with the Criminal Law and international acts, this should be taken into account or to increase this sentence which is for violations under the Sport Act 50,000 to 150,000 or to reduce this proposal which is related to the Criminal Law, i.e. to upholding the sentence of three to 12 years. Also, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have also proposed this amendment, we will talk about it, to consider that Article 40 of point 8 specifies exactly what the colleague was talking about - the obligations of the Alliance of the National Alliances that arise from this law and, in this case, by this point, the 15-day alignment of acts and the delivery of these acts to the competent Ministry of Sports. According to this proposal, as you ministers have explained, it turns out that one of the measures of the ministry that is planned here is to exclude the competent associations, alliances, etc. from payment, that is, the state of Serbia because of the failure to comply with these obligations, if I understand correctly, exclude them from paying out of the budget. However, point 40 of this law provides for a fine of 400,000 to 1,000,000 dinars for failing to comply with these obligations, but nowhere is it mentioned that they will not receive money, or money from the budget, and then we are looking for an explanation whether it is foreseen in this law or whether it is a special decision by the Government. What I think the minister owes as a special dilemma in the light of this proposal is also a member of point 4 of point 3. You mentioned it, but it stays unclear to me, and I think it's important for the MPs and the public to make it clear. It speaks of three non-fulfilment of the Alliance's obligations, athletes, etc., it is directly re-possessed and transferred to Article 41(3) of the same bill, which provides for a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. A colleague mentioned, and you mentioned that this member primarily implies - if the athlete does not tell the Alliance three times, the competent organisation, the institution, etc., the place of residence, does not report the stay that day and so on. However, it is said that if he misses three tests outside the competition, which means that a sportsman can double the law, for the third time if he does not come to the test, he will not be punished. So the principle of 2 - 1 is applied each time and it avoids being punished. I think it is an important question, and I'm not so sure that this is the point that we can agree on somewhere to vote on. Our proposal will be that one meeting these obligations actually means committing a crime and withdrawing certain measures. The next topic on which the minister should get to know both the public and the MPs is the agency. I think you've missed the chance to reduce the number of people on that board in the formation of the Agency's Management Board. Given that this agency has worked with 15 members, given the government's intensities to cut costs, given the great promises that this government has made to the public in this sense that many of the existing 140 agencies will be abolished, and only two have been abolished, then it would be good for you to at least show good faith in this case and to reduce the number of people and the board of directors. I think it's particularly important, without the bill giving meaning to this subject, it's a subject of minors and underage doping. Given the alignment with the Criminal Law, where you have proposed a prison sentence of two to ten years, it stands only in one formulation in Article 38, I think that the issue, given the experiences that existed, which a colleague from New Serbia spoke about in the previous period, having experience and in the last period, was also an important topic to protect children from abuses of whether they were parents, trainers, system, etc., but in that sense, I think this law should have provided more detailed answers, i.e. to predict many situations concerning child protection which are actively involved in sport. You know that kids today at 12, 13,14 are engaged in top-notch sports, both in gymnastics and swimming and in some other disciplines. I think they're under a lot of pressure, which is why they're being abused. The next thing that remains unclear and which is a dilemma for me is the Agency's authority in terms of calling a tender for equipment, where commitment and public procurement and availability of equipment are undertaken, etc. There's a tender coming up, looking for a user for that equipment. I think there's a big space for abuse and corruption. This did not lead to public procurement and tenders being comprehensive, i.e. that those people who assume responsibility to deal with these affairs, or those systems take over the obligation and maintenance and supply of equipment, and not that the Ministry gives money, is responsible for the equipment, and someone else is in possession of it. Another question concerning penalties for those who do not comply with Article 10 of their commitment to the Alliance. I think it's a central issue, or a central topic, are we going to raise this level in the coming period right through criminal policy, but also education to get these 50% organisations currently in the system and respecting the law, to raise this level and to ultimately have a purpose, precisely because we have in some way brought our specificities into line with the application of this law, that is to say, international standards? As far as voting by the DS parliamentary group is concerned, we are really prepared to support this proposal, with respect to all the reasons for refusing or accepting the amendment, but depending on the debate and depending on how you will plead on our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10214	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10215	Thank you for the suggestions and we will certainly review some of the items in the bill on the prevention of doping in sport. You've listed a few concerns and questions, so I'll try to answer some of your questions. Of course the law is being implemented, we can't say it's not being implemented. Because we have seen irregularities, which is why we have asked the National Border Alliances to respect their rights and obligations and to deliver the sport rules that are being introduced under the new law to the competent ministry and the Anti-doping Agency. So now the Alliance is required to inform the competent ministry that it has adopted its own rules of sports. In case he does not adopt the rules of sports, he is subject to sanctions for not obtaining funds from public revenues. It is strengthened by this law and inspection supervision, which clearly determines the rights and obligations of a sports inspector, but for this particular reason. Since more responsibility has been given to the National Border Alliances, it is therefore a desire for the inspector to enter and control whether national border alliances respect their obligations or not. These are some things that we have added to this law precisely because we have seen some irregularities in earlier work, but we cannot say that the law has not been implemented, because it is impossible that the law is not implemented or sanctioned by those alliances that do not enforce their law. In my opening statement, I said that the use of doping means was not punished. Just one crime, not the other two. There were three of them, now there are two, one being thrown out internationally because it was impossible to prove the intention of using doping funds. No verdict has been reached for this crime. As a result, it is being thrown out on the international side and all the countries in their laws are dropping the crime. You mentioned a member of the 40s, about criminal provisions. Article 40 is if someone submits an application, and in Article 10, it is if he does not fulfil the obligation and it is observed in the supervision. There's this difference in these two things that are a little vague, but that's why I'm ready to review some things and talk, especially when it comes to amendments. You mentioned a sportsman who doesn't meet his obligation to inform the National Anti-doping Agency three times. I'll explain on a classic case, since I personally experienced this member or that provision and the world's anti-doping code and the law itself on the prevention of doping in sports. In practice, it happens that a athlete is required to fill the place of residence every day, where the place is where he trains and what time period will train and mandatory hour where the antidoping controller can find him. Since I've personally experienced it, I'm telling you, in the morning from six to seven, I've been putting myself on my address to be found by a doping controller, to train at that address and that address in so many hours, and I've been in that city all day, and that's my duty. Three violations are in case either the National Doping Agency or the International Doping Agency finds that I have not fulfilled my obligation to fill I get one minus. Data is the possibility of non-sanctioning anti-doping rules at the moment when the athlete didn't notify, because it happened in practice that suddenly he had to travel, cancel flights, fill in advance where you're going to be, and change the travel plan, change the hotel. We had a personal case that we were trading in one day in Canada because of the flood of three hotels. Now imagine someone filling in three times where it is. Mostly there is an internationally flexible attitude and tries to understand and respect every argument of athletes. That's why they are three times if the athlete doesn't fulfill his obligation, then he's hurt that member, that's why. Infringement of antidoping rules. You said about the board of directors and the tendency to reduce board members. The Anti-doping Agency's board is sitting twice a year and paid by session, not throughout the year. A meeting may be requested and more than twice at the request of the Minister of Sports, but in practice it is indeed twice a year, when the lists of illicit substances are established. Laboratory, i.e. opening a public procurement tender for the lab itself. We've chosen the laboratory in the last few years in Vienna, Austria, because it's licensed to have homogenize for both blood and urine. There are no such laboratories in the region. There are some that are closer than Austria, but they're just testing urine, not blood. I would sincerely like to have a licensed laboratory in the Republic of Serbia, because it would also raise a scale in this area and thus show a more responsible approach to this problem, but, as I said in the opening statement, it is necessary to have 3,000 reviews over the year to pay off such a laboratory. A certain machine was purchased, it exists, but when it entered into the depths, when it was seen how much money it really needed to survive one laboratory, then it gave up until conditions in the Republic of Serbia that there was a possibility of 3,000 views over the year, then we will activate a laboratory located in Belgrade. That's basically it. In many ways, we want to increase inspection supervision and therefore directly determine the work and responsibility of sports inspectors, in order to make it clear that the law itself is being applied and that everyone understands how necessary it is for them to comply with this law, i.e. Now the bill on drug prevention. Thank you and, as I said, I'm prepared to listen to specific suggestions and, of course, to review all these things you said and that by working together, because we really are tending, we get to the best of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10216	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandar Jovicic. Mr. Markovic, you have no option right now, you have the time you have left and you will finally be able to turn around. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I think it is in the topic and it is important for the minister to hear as well. I'll only explain two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10217	Thank you. Dear Ministers, as regards this dilemma relating to sanctions, relating to national organisations, associations and associations, etc. which does not fulfil their obligations under Article 10 of the Law, is provided for in Article 40 of the fine of 400,000 dinars to millions of dinars. It's a bill that stands in the law. Since you have mentioned several times, you have said that in the event that they do not meet these obligations, then another measure will be applied, which is the abolition of revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget, I just want to draw attention to you that you have a problem, the proposal will probably not be able to pass the Budget System Act. I think we should work out then this 40th article and try to kind of raise the number of organizations that will respect this law. That's what I was particularly talking about, because I think that's a fundamental reason for the law to be passed, to which more should be given the accent. The second thing relating to this Article 3(4), as provided for in Article 41(3), is that those who do not comply with these provisions receive a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars. I understand your reasoning and motives why you explained this case in this way through this formulation, but what I'm trying to tell you, that's what I'm getting at, and that's why I filed that amendment, is the sequel to that sentence. You say – if a sportsman from a registered test group does not fulfil the requirements of the approved anti-doping organisation regarding the availability of non-competition testing or does not provide data on residence, then – or miss the published testing outside the competition. So, there's a repeat of this area around the residence twice, which I think is too high. The second part is – or miss the published testing outside the competition. This implies by my interpretation again this principle – twice they will not, and once again they will not, or once again they will not, but they will never come into the room to be punished for not respecting the law and for not respecting this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10218	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10219	I just want to get close to you honestly because, I repeat again, I personally had one failure, one minus because we left in the morning. I put from six to seven that I was home, and the plane flew early to Munich, the morning one at six o'clock. When the controller came in at six o'clock he didn't find anyone at the address and I got one minus what they call it. After that, I filled in, and I didn't have any more minuses. It doesn't bother if they find you two or three times and do anti-doping control, it doesn't cancel out that minus, but it stays in you all the time. I have a colleague who had two minuses, where we all worked together from college to make no more mistakes. Even the coach wanted to have access, to have his coach fill out where he was, because he didn't want his player to be sanctioned, that is. that he has an anti-doping right. I have to say, in practice, that's why I did say in the opening statement something that has many concerns, many questions, dissensions most out of ignorance, and that's one obligation that each of us accepts. I'm aware if I don't fill in three times what's gonna happen. I'm aware in advance, and I consciously get into that risk, if I don't fill in, and if they find me at the address, and I have to say that they've come to my home address one four, five times in total, especially in the last two years, because you all know, then they start those stories, they send some other teams. The attempts are like this, but I'm really trying to bring you closer to the world of sports, in practice what's going on. So it's not something that's new now or something that we're now introducing that's revolutionary, but it's an integral obligation for athletes, prescribed by the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10220	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Aleksandar Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10221	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, MPs, at the very beginning, I would like you to respond to this coffee break, in line with the DS. I consider that, and at the very beginning, it violates Parliament's dignity, because I think we need to discuss serious laws here, in one responsible way, so I would ask you to respond to that question. If we need a break, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10222	I saw him late, and I noticed that Mr. Balsha brought in some chain packages, so I'd ask him if it wasn't right. (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: What is the problem of coffee? And the minister drinks coffee? Mr. Sutanovac, you've been practicing to throw yourself out of place all the time lately. I would ask you not to do this, for it is not right for other MPs who do not. But Mr. Balsha brought in a large amount of package chain, and I don't think it's appropriate for this home. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Please, can I do the Rules of Procedure? You can't, Mr. Balsha, I'd just ask you not to do it anymore, it's not by Parliament's rules. Go on, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10223	Thank you, Chairman. At the very beginning, I would like to welcome Minister Udovic, and I find his role twice as difficult in this situation, given that you are a top athlete. Would you please calm the messengers and if they want to hear it? Please, if you can give me back my time, because on this coffee break I spent two minutes already. .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10224	Mr. Joviciæu, you cannot point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure as part of your presentation, you can only mention it in the speech you did. Please keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10225	I'd just like you to allow me to speak uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10227	Thank you. As I said, the minister has a double hard role in the sense that he is also a top athlete on the one hand, who has achieved incredible results for our country, a large number of medals, and this way I congratulate him, on the one hand, and on the other hand the minister in the responsible Government, who really wants to implement and thoroughly reform when we talk about the overall situation in the country, and in the area that you, Mr. Udovic, are leading, as regards the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I also reminded you that you are the Minister of Sport and Youth, and I think you are doing a good job on both tracks, but it is important that all of us, together with you in the coming period, implement a strategy for young people, i.e. to give all possible support to make young people feel that they are part of society and that they participate in our entire society. As for the law, we've heard a lot of things today, I wouldn't repeat myself, but I would like to point out that the reasons for law-making are certainly important. Harmonising with the world's anti-doping code is really important for Serbia, because if we hadn't done it at this point, I think our representatives, our top athletes, would not be able to participate in the world arenas, as well as in domestic areas, for the simple reason that our institutions would not have the mandate to react and to implement all the games that are happening on our territory and across the border. The observed shortcomings of the previous legal solution were not respected by certain codes, we had approximately an analysis of 4347 anti-doping controls, of which 48 athletes were found taking certain substances. I believe that there are others in that space who may have, in some way, used certain substances under someone's pressure that they shouldn't have, and we didn't have a law that defined it in one way, responsiblely. Also, the key amendments to the laws that I particularly like are association and complicity. That means that there are two possible violations of the rules, which is that it's not the only one who can break a certain code, but it's also people who might influence an athlete to take a particular substance that he shouldn't, and that can come from a coach, from a club manager, or from a third party. I believe that with these amendments, more specifically by this law, by this supplement, we will eliminate such cases and prevent them from happening. A more flexible system for prescribing penalties that are no longer fixed, but there are certain institutions, there is an agency, there is a state that prescribes certain penalties that will be skating rather than more fixed. I think that's important, too. There is also a criminal offence, which is also important when we talk about the use of doping, because it does not exist even in international regulations. We have a few members here that are very important when we talk about this law and I'm going to mention some. Article 7 regulates the authority of the anti-doping agency of the Republic of Serbia, the members of the 8th and 9th determine who is allowed to perform anti-doping control and, most importantly, we have defined behaviour and conduct, or the authority of inspectors in the sports world, which is really important to know what their power is in decision making and what they may or may not do. Article 15 is also regulated when it is possible to use funds that otherwise fall under doping, if it is a disease of athletes, injuries or something else. I think it's really important to define these laws. Also, Article 10 and Article 38 and Article 42 to cite minors to the use of illicit substances is a punishment of two to ten years. I think it's very important because the generations that are coming, the young world in our country that we want to be represented in the future at all sports manifestations, we have to keep from this evil, and we can do this to make someone think that anyone who thinks of anything that doesn't comply with the law, and that a secretary is less than 18 years old, suffers conconsequences that are in accordance with the law and prescribed penalties. I think that's really important. On the other hand, Mr. Udovic, I'm glad you're here today, not only because of this law, the anti-doping law, I think you're the minister who works well in the government of the Republic of Serbia, when we talk about the field of sports and youth. I would say that youth is an important factor in our country. Young people are the driver of our society. I would ask you to do your best, along with all of us, that in the next period through various promotions, prevention, we send a clear message to young people, that they don't belong on the street, not the name of the place, and the state will fight against those who poison them in the schoolyards, that they belong in sports halls. Because the data that says 39% of young people do not engage in sports in Serbia must light a light for all of us. It's got to work, because we want young people to be in the O.R. Five hours a week average high school students or founder spends on sports playgrounds. We have to change that. We must change because of the healthy generations that are coming, who will represent us in the world, who will lead this country tomorrow and who will be the role model of our healthy nation. Only 15% of young people have a hobby. Also, through your ministry, through this assembly that has chosen the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which you are a member, has been assigned to do so over the next few years, but not for a few decades, but for two or three years to change, and to have better results. We must try to have a better sport offer, to separate the resources for sport, to separate the resources for health, for our nation. A few problems await us on this road, and the biggest problem is alcoholism, smoking, drug consumption in any part of the city, schools, behind schools, in the courtyards, etc. I believe that through one particular campaign that we can all implement together, it must also be your task, because you are on the one hand and a top athlete who has resisted all the temptations to yours, I don't know 30 and some years as many as you have, and on the other hand you are representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you are also the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic who is struggling that young people in our country are not only the letter on paper, that young people in our country are the bearers of the reforms that we have started together, and you and me and these MPs in our Assembly to stand up in a few years and we have said something about our young people who will have a job on the one hand, and to achieve great results in competitions like you did. Once again, I want to welcome you and congratulate you for all that you have done in the previous period, you are well representing your ministry, the SNS will support this law, but I hope that in the coming period we will adopt a series of laws that will define and define the area, when we talk not only about sports but also about young people about the youth of our country, because we will not have a good sport unless we have a healthy nation of young, healthy people who will tomorrow do exactly what you are, and that is the best and in the best possible way to represent our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10228	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Balša Bozovic, if you abuse, I will take away from you from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10229	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I can hardly abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure, since you've committed a violation in article 107 and threatened the dignity of this home. For the simple reason that you just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10230	Mr. Balša Bozovicu, did I endanger or do you who have entered the packages, I do not understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10231	Can I finish? I've checked in with the Rules of Procedure. Can I finish? It's not up to you to judge whether or not I put in the packages or tea incorrectly, because someone caught a cold coming to this session to listen to a law that he thinks is important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10232	Now you're telling me that all of your people who got the packages were caught cold? Mr. Bozovic, I don't want to pummel. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. () What member is injured? Article 107. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, master of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10233	I thank Mr. Vice President, I hope you understand, you cannot argue with the MPs at the moment when they are trying to explain why they believe that you have violated any provision of the Rules of Procedure, I advertise Rule 103. Rules of Procedure. What you have done now in completely inappropriate communication with MP Bozovic is not some practice that we have had so far. The MP who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure has the opportunity to explain why he considers the Rules of Procedure to be injured and what the infringement consists of, and you did not even give Mr Bozovic that opportunity, aside from the fact that the Rules of Procedure clearly state that the same provisions apply to all participants in the session. As far as we know, coffee, tea, juice and other drinks are brought by the staff from the congregation’s restaurant at the chairman’s table, and the minister and his associates sitting in this hall also have the opportunity to drink coffee or tea. The fact that you are trying to apply other rules to different participants in the debate, depending on which option they belong, is your right, but you cannot deny beyond what your Rules of Procedure, Mr Bozovic or any other MP, the right to explain why he considers the Rules of Procedure to be injured. I ask the Assembly to make a statement on this in voting day, because there is no explanation for what you just did, which can please any MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10234	Miss Jerkov, I still owe you an explanation. First, the minister you mentioned is a guest in the National Assembly, explaining the law delivered by the government, and surely, if he sits here all day and listens, and you as MPs can go out and have coffee at a congregation restaurant, and the minister can't do that. The minister cannot do so, and it is therefore a practice for the minister who has been authorised by the government to enter coffee during the debate. So much for respecting guests who come to the National Assembly. At the chair you don't have any coffee, and the remark was given by a speaker who at that time got the word, that he couldn't keep talking, because at that moment he was going into an O.R. with a larger amount of coffee, not tea. We've all had our chance in this room to see, and you can't convince us that now the entire group of MPs has been caught cold, so that tea has to be brought in. I don't think it's your remark, Miss Jerkov. I don't want to argue with you, you're as a parliamentary group used to having sex with the chairman from the bench, and I don't want to work with you like that. You ask for a word, you'll get one. Here you go, another breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the Master Alexander Jerkov, who is a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10235	Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10236	You can't do the same thing again. (The microphone has been turned off, MP Aleksandra Jerkov. ) I move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the principled search. (National Ambassador Alexander Jerkov from the post: I report for another breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know how to explain all this to you... ) You cannot contact the same member at the same time. You can't contact the same member at the same time in a row. It's not worth it with you to me. I move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in the principle of the draft law. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10237	Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, as is the case with the authorised representative, the SPS parliamentary group, said, it is true that the SPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this law, both for the reasons that have been laid down, and for the reasons which are fundamentally clear to you and us, which is the fight against an extremely dangerous and deviant phenomenon, such as doping and those phenomena, which in case we do not have such mechanisms of combat, can represent cancer, which can metastasise and threaten one and how a significant social area, i.e. what means the affirmation of young athletes. On the other hand, this phenomenon, which is why the SPS parliamentary group reacts in this way, is also respecting certain constitutionally guaranteed rights, but not only with the Constitution, but also with international documents, above all, the universal declaration of human rights, which is the right to life and the right to health. It is doubtless that in this sense, first of all, those to whom this law applies, which are athletes, these rights must be guaranteed as absolutely guaranteed and those rights must be respected. I do not want, as some colleagues do today during the duration of this debate, to comment on certain provisions of this law, but I want to draw out something that is for the SPS parliamentary group, and I am sure for all of us, is a significant part of the law, which is, above all, that you, Mr. Minister, have succeeded with this bill, which I am sure will be adopted, to ensure transparency in the work of both bodies and bodies and institutions, which are systematised by this law, and that is for great praise and in this direction the SPS gives strong support in that part, especially when we speak of the powers, i.e. the powers of the anti-doping agencies. This law has taken one step forward, given that this law further moves the way towards EU membership. Why? We are starting with the fact that the world anti-doping code, which will be applied from 1 January 2015, contains provisions which, however, are already implemented in certain formulations in the provisions of the proposed law. What is essential from the very code is passed into the law, and the essential part of the law is its objectives. The first goal is to protect the fundamental rights of athletes. I said they were guaranteed both by the Constitution and international documents, primarily the right to health. The second objective is to provide, i.e. bring together and coordinate an effective anti-doping programme that will effectively enable it to be prevented, so as to prevent the occurrences of which this law indicates and where this law must undoubtedly be applied. Indeed, compliance with the world anti-doping program is done through the very essence of this law. I have to point out, first of all, because of the citizens, how this world anti-doping program is affirmed through three modes, first of all, making the code I was just talking about, the second is to accept international standards, and the third is to agree the model as the best solutions and the guideline for anti-doping control to be achieved, i.e. make it the most effective. I think that we have done a lot in this direction and that through this law all these three modes can also be seen and that they appear as something that, in terms of mechanisms, or functioning in the practical application of the law, will give full effect. I believe that, unlike some colleagues who have raised as criticism, Mr. Minister, there are no discrepancies and misunderstandings here when it comes to criminal acts. As a lawyer and as a lawyer, and then I'll say something as a athlete, first of all I support, I absolutely support the criminalization of the crimes you've covered here. Personally, I think it would be good for these same crimes to be covered by the Criminal Code, which should be within the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry and I hope that soon the Criminal Code will be complemented by something that you did great, which is the criminalisation of two crimes of which one appears as well as how significant. This is to prevent the organisation in a criminal-legal sense of the word, because of the illegal action that implies placing on the market substances that involve banned substances, whether they are substances or other substances. Why am I saying this? Because it is already a widespread phenomenon, dear fellow Members of the People, that on the basis of commercial aspects, commercial modes of action, profit gains, increasingly and more are being placed on the market, and thus trying to make enormous profits, and on the other hand, who are the victims? Victims are athletes, victims are young, no matter how the athletes are ranked, whether as professional athletes or as amateurs. As a result, the criminalisation of this crime was undoubtedly necessary and it is doubtless a huge shift in the criminal-legal sense of the word. What neither you nor we, first and foremost in the SPS parliamentary group, are going to accept, is that the law allegedly introduced confusion when it comes to the relationship between offenses and crimes. It's not. Nor can it be confusing and contradictory of anything, first of all and from the point of view of criminal law no one can be punished twice for the same anti-legislative act, which means that if someone is punished for a crime, where very clearly defined and defined elements of the offence, they will not be prosecuted for the crime and the contrary. So both you and the MPs, especially citizens and athletes to whom this law is directly passed, can be relaxed that there are absolutely no absurdities here in practical application, there is no illogicality and there is no contradiction. What is also important to point out is the fact that since I mentioned the code, that I know that your ministry, with you at the helm, has taken significant steps to implement education. Why education? Educations in relation to all sports organisations or sports collectives in relation to clubs, because there is no doubt that there is not enough money to carry out anti-doping controls. You mentioned yourself how much an anti-doping control costs. Now, if one anti-doping control action were to take place, and this would be extremely expensive, and therefore, regardless of the need to implement the budget of the Republic of Serbia, I believe, and the SPS parliamentary group stands at that point in view of the need to prevent, that this prevention is necessary through education, that athletes are educated in the sense in which it is necessary, because they protect themselves, protect their health and ultimately their lives and what is most important in sport in this way remains what they are, and that is the supporters of fair-play competition and fair-play struggle. Given that I am 35 years related to sport and as an international judge with a world certificate in karate sport, I simply owe it as a sacred example, but indeed a sacred example of the Karata Federation of Serbia as an organisation that has already been able to affirm all this in the law that we are discussing today. The National Border Council, called the Karate Federation of Serbia, has existed for 50 years and has been recognised by the Sports Council or the Alliance of Serbia, the Olympic Committee, and indeed it is the only national alliance from this sport branch through which the state of Serbia has its interests when it comes to karate sport. I would like to remind you that in 2010, the Karate Federation of Serbia right here in the City of Belgrade organized our capital a world championship where the most noticeable and most significant results, even three gold medals, one bronze, and one gold medal was in the team competition. In this branch of sports there are over 50,000 athletes and Mr. Ministers, it is certain that you know, but because of the citizens I want to note that in this branch of sport special attention is paid to the life of athletes, where there is extremely successful co-operation with the Republic Institute for Sports, with the Anti-Doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, and it is with pride that this sport has never had doped athletes. I even have to point out that our best-quality athletes, our representatives who have already been internationally recognised by their sports quality, have been tested for even two years when it comes to anti-doping control, that absolutely nothing could be found in that direction, and indeed it is a positive and sacred example of how one organization should act and how one organization should behave in this regard. I said this because karate sport is a marginal sport although it is massive, extremely massive, and marginal because it is not given any media attention, but to our happiness, happiness as a karate player, people who are engaged in this sport, it is devoted to the attention of the ministry, you who represent the ministry, and it is given attention in the sense in which this sport should be affirmed, much more than it has ever been. This much more simply stands and is based on the fact that the results of karate and karate athletes justify investing in karate sport. This investment isn't yet, at least in my opinion, and you won't mind me putting it out as a personal attitude, it's not at the level at which it would be necessary, that those who come, because we're always young, we always have talent, we always have talent in all areas of sport, not just in karate, but in karate, especially, I'm apostrophetic and I think that we should invest in them. In the end, I think it would be important to reach one general consensus here. There must be no political division around this law. There is no reason in any way to question anything that this law affirms, because we are working in the interest of health, in the interests of life, in the interests of young people, in the interest of those where the world remains, in the interest of those who will glorify and likely marry with the glory of this country, our Republic of Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will certainly vote for the bill for all these reasons, as well as the reasons put forward by the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10238	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10239	I want to thank you for your suggestions, but also give you one brief answer. Article 3 of this Act is prescribed directly from the World Anti-doping Code and, as such, cannot be changed at national level. Violations are independent and they are currently going on application, so that the athlete, under Article 3 of the World Anti-doping Code, is being punished for not being able to engage in sports during the duration of the sentence. It's the only parallel I wanted to explain to you. Anyway, thank you for your support and your suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10240	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10241	Dear Chairman, ministers, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport in the day of voting. We all know that a long time ago in sports, she stopped being a parole officer, how important it was to participate. If that were the case, sports at all levels would not have had so much resources, and those who do not achieve the expected results would be replaced by significant places on different teams. From this we conclude that more than participation is an important victory, above all, to justify all that is invested in sport. If so, then no means are chosen to win, and the way to reach it is to use stimulative means, more and more often those banned. Doping is a subject a little bit of talk about, but it seems that the largest number of ordinary people, and which is defeative and athlete, is very little to know about. Although under this concept it was originally considered only to improve the impact on some competition, using stimulating and drug-related drugs over time has been given much broader meaning, so the International Olympic Committee has defined it as a use, taking and giving to a human organism foreign substances or a larger amount of substances normally contained in the organism with the aim of artificially stimulating, i.e. increasing competitive abilities, contrary to sports ethics, physical and mental integrity of athletes. The first data on doping in sports comes from ancient Greece, where the ancient Greeks used certain types of mushrooms during the Olympic Games to improve physical performance, and the Aztecs consumed the human heart for the same purpose. Doping allegedly used some armies in wars to artificially raise the courage and endurance of its troops. Using doping means and methods to increase endurance is present among top athletes, but also in amateurs and recreationals. It is particularly disappointing to know that there is also a presence in the younger population. The sport also uses an increasing number of different substances to improve results, reduce nerve tension, increase muscle strength and weight, lose weight, remove fatigue and achieve faster recovery or mask some other substance during testing. It is particularly worrying that athletes take doping funds even at the cost of their own health, and because of their desire to self-prove because of the influence of parents, trainers or other factors, all in order to gain fame and money. In order to prevent the negative fact of these substances by the organism, the international organisation, governments of almost all countries, national and sports federations and the IOC have mobilised to end this vice. To this end, the World Anti-doping Agency was established to popularise sports without doping and protect athletes from unwanted consequences. A list of banned substances and procedures for their detection of specific chemical and technological laboratory studies has also been developed. The proposed law sets out disciplinary measures that include disqualification of sports results, temporary suspension, ban on participation in competition, ban on performing sports activities. Penalties say that anyone who makes or prescribes, issues or applies a doping agent to athletes, lists him, assists him or otherwise enables him to use a doping agent, will be sentenced by imprisonment from six months to five years. If a sportsman is a minor or is more or has caused particularly serious consequences, the perpetrator will be punished for two to ten years. All of this, like many other provisions, is only fine if the law is respected. I especially want to point out and tell all athletes and young people who want to play sports, and from the point of view of a sportsman who has been in sports for 20 years, that the best results are achieved only by hard work, training, common sense and a brave heart. Finally, as I said, the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed law, noting that it is necessary to mobilise the entire community and everyone who deals with sport and youth to develop a sport spirit in the full sense of these words and to teach them that only hard work and dissuasion, and not using stimulating means, because then the results are current, and the consequences, unfortunately, are permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10242	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10243	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister, the basic objectives of passing this law are absolutely clear and we agree with them. They're fine. Honestly, we are very wrong that it took you and your ministry about two years to propose this law. We have this situation to sit in a government whose prime minister spoke about lightning reforms last night, and for two years it has been waiting for the adoption of a law in which, to be clear, there is really nothing spectacular, except what you said, that it is in line with world anti-doping standards, which is commendable and that we will positively assess in the day of voting. What we're concerned about is a few things that your authorised representative spoke about, is when it comes to the director of the Antidoping Agency. In our opinion, he cannot perform another function unless it is eventually educational, for the simple reason that such an important function or individual or individual in such an important public function cannot be in any conflict of interest. We also talked on several occasions about how the penalties, in our opinion, are very mild, and I would also read on this occasion the very proposal to be in Article 39. The bill states: “Whoever, unauthorized to doping in sport and processing, selling or selling or selling for sale buys, holding or transfer in or intercessing in the sale or purchase of doping funds, or otherwise unauthorized, will be put into circulation by a prison of three to 12 years.” What bothers us is that in the second part of Article 40, there is also talk of selling and similar elements of the crime, but there is a fine of 400,000 to a million dinars. Also, in art. In 41st and 42nd, different degrees ranging from 50 to 150 thousand or from a certain number to a maximum of 150 thousand dinars are forecasted again. What bothers us is that there has been insufficient discrimination against criminal responsibility and that it is placed quite broadly on the interpretation of what can be criminal and what criminal responsibility at the moment. This is not clearly defined, and through the amendments we will suggest that we do this area in a clearer way. Mr. Jova Markovic said that the overly mild penalties provided for and violations, that any athlete at any level of the competition, of course, who is aware of the consequences of the use of doping funds, which can cause great damage to his career, that the bill provides that each athlete has the right to three non-fulfilling obligations to the anti-doping organisation. So we think it's too mild and that any failure to comply with the obligation must be sanctioned immediately. You had a chance to explain and explain it. We still feel that this is a way that needs to be resolved to the end and this part of the bill. Also, Dr Mileta Poscurica, who is a member of the Legislative Committee, if I am not mistaken, he was once a respected member of the Serbian Radical Party, today's Serbian Progressive Party, drew attention to the fact that this bill has one kind of, I could call it, corruption and announcements. Here, I'll explain why. The Anti-doping Agency, according to this bill, is calling for a tender which laboratory will perform anti-doping control. Then, further explanation is that the Agency will obtain the necessary equipment for the laboratory that wins the tender. It is not clear until the end, why would the Agency pay someone who has already won the tender for additional equipment and the question is, are people working on that additional equipment, then have experience, given that they haven't had it by then and whether the costs are additionally paid, because they are people who have no experience on certain equipment? It is also a very confusing thing because, from several examples, a case of corruption may potentially appear in the announcement, and therefore this is another application from the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, since the essence of the government's policy is the fight against anti-corruption to regulate these things much more clearly than was proposed by the bill itself. To be clear, we don't have to mean that this was someone's intention. I'm not saying it's a case at all. I just suggest that, just a little bit clearer, this area is arranged for the simple reason that some of the things that might mean some kind of corruption in some announcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10244	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10245	I won't be long, I'll just try to explain about this equipment that's being called public procurement and the lab itself. The Andidoping Agency is launching a public procurement for equipment used in conducting anti-doping controls. It's about so-called whales, where a substance taken by a athlete is still being transported so wrapped in a special way, that there will be no abuse in an authorized laboratory. There are only two companies in the world that make these whales. So there aren't many of them. There are only two of them and public procurement is being made for these two companies. As I said in the opening statement, the lab has a lot of, like, 20 in Europe. The one that meets all obligations is this one in Vienna, so I don't repeat myself, but it has nothing to do with the equipment that we buy with our resources any equipment for the lab. So it's about whales going to the lab, transporting substances and then... I can explain to you what it's like, since I've done it countless times, but it's one special way, not to bother all MPs now, but it's a concrete answer to your question. I think we'll talk through the amendments about other suggestions you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10246	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10247	Mr. Minister, it's our pleasure as Members of the People's Parliament to have someone whose sports career is marked by top-notch results at the head of the ministry. At the head of the ministry we have a person who, in every sense, represented his country as a athlete, and we expect to give such an assessment at the end of your term in relation to the work of your ministry. On that road, you will not find it difficult, especially in terms of privatising major sports clubs and everything we need to follow. The law we're talking about today is just promoting health, those old Latin sentiment mens sana and corpore sano or in a healthy body healthy spirit. Doping is the way athletes use chemical resources, but also other types of medical interventions, e.g. In exchange for blood, they try to overcome the results of other athletes or their own results at the expense of their own health. It is not a new phenomenon of modern sport, regardless of what most think and such an impression in the public is a phenomenon that occurs with the development of pharmacology. It's an old phenomenon. More ancient athletes used illicit substances in their desire to achieve the best results or to win the competitions. Doping or illicit funds have also been used by many armies of armies through human history, and it is also known in our people that a deficient opinion – when the Turks pick the mac, is being prepared for a major military coup. The reconstruction of the Olympic Games also restores new funds. With the development of sports, medicine, more significant results are achieved, so, for example, today, an average athlete can achieve the result of the Olympic winner 40, 50 or 60 years ago. The old boundaries are moving. I remember only 20 and a few years ago a sportsman who was 27, 28 years old in public called himself a veteran. Today, the athlete is believed to have yet to achieve top-notch results. The old boundaries are moving. Our football legend Dragan Djajic said goodbye to football at 31st year, Kicanovic also, and today at 31st year, no one remembers to hang spears on a wedge, but it is another topic, but it is related to the development of sports medicine, to improve health and to the development of dangers that bring down the health of athletes and the health of the nation, which is the use of illicit funds. For example, Lens Armstrong, he was taken away from him in 2012 as many as seven titles of the winner "Tour de France", and doping is today literally a regular phenomenon in extreme sports, especially in cycling. We can boast there, since on these, if I'm not mistaken, 5,000 surveyed athletes, only 50 were positive. That's about 1%. What does it matter? Because doping means affect the increased physical and mental abilities of athletes, more the deterioration of mental abilities, up to 10%, but also physical from 3 to 5%. Many would say it's negligible, but it's not negligible because an increase in physical ability by just 1% just makes that break point to achieve this supreme score, because imagine what when you say in a hundred meters race a hundredth of a winner decides, and you raise with the use of unauthorized funds your psychophysical form by 1%. Why is it even important to promote not only the health of athletes, but all those involved in both amateur and professional sports to be in a permanent campaign? We don't expect this law to solve all problems and sublegal acts, because it's impossible. We think that this dominant influence will have a legal basis with the running of a permanent campaign, primarily related to health damage, because, say, different data suggests that many bodybuilders do not survive the 50th year precisely because of the use of illicit means in order to achieve the best results. At the annual level, I'm talking about public health, it gets lost because of the disorderly or absence of moderate physical activity more lives than it is lost in traffic accidents in overuse of drugs, tobacco or alcohol. The lack of physical activity as a risk factor has leveled in many of its segments and diseases of the cardiovascular system and as a result has been fully equated with cholesterol, increased blood pressure and other risks that are on the mortality table among the major risks. With the financial benefit of sports, one UN analysis shows that the cost of health care and raising public health levels is high. Then, it affects productivity increase, then, prevention of violent behavior and juvenile delinquency and ensuring a healthier environment. On the other hand, there is a need to protect the health of athletes, which is the basic objective of this law, in addition to preventive protection, the work of team doctors, medical staff in competitions, etc., the fight against doping. What do athletes use doping for? Because it shortens recovery time, rest, brings better physical and psychological effects and an increase in the effect I talked about from 5 to 10%, as regards physical and mental activities. You've promoted the Ministers here something that we fully agree on. Sportsmen are idols of young generations. From the sportsman’s behavior, the way he came up with top sports results will have a major impact on the behavior of young people who are idol athletes. He doesn't exist here, I think, a MP or a national MP who didn't have some top athlete in a club he cheered for or a national team who was his ultimate idol in his day. Therefore, it is a great responsibility for both athletes and teams who manage sports associations, sports alliances, clubs, teams, as well as those who are engaged in amateur sports to keep education. Since I am running out of time, I will just say that I fully agree and advocate the renewal of the work of the Assembly Committee on Youth and Sports, that education and prevention should be done on these issues. I advocate to fully depolitise sports, privatise major sports clubs, and in particular to reduce the budget and local self-government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10248	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10249	... I end up, and the Republic budget invests in people, more to invest in infrastructure, because when we have a good infrastructure it's the best basis for developing sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10250	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Vladimir Djukanovic, so let the MP Jovana Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10251	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a very important law ahead of us. It is extremely important because in many ways some of us can improve our relationship with the youth itself. Why am I talking about this? First of all, we're Mr. Widow, and I hope you see that too, and I see that you've taken some nice steps in the Ministry of Sports, and we've completely destroyed generations and generations by starting to take sport exclusively as a means to earn money. Coaches have become more and more managers, not educators. Of course, there are also the guilts of parents and the whole society, because many parents already see their child growing up, so it's a little talented right away that their child is either Djokovic or the new Mesi, or I don't know any of the top athletes. Then the school is neglected, the education is neglected, huge funds are given, otherwise today it's very expensive to enroll a child to train, give huge funds, invest in a child, come naturally to the complete destruction of the child's health, because as a child grows up, you can't give him that kind of effort and then it collapses and becomes even a useless member of society because he didn't even finish school, and he's lost in sports. I invite you to look at our young basketball players how many unfortunately ruined their careers by having crossed ligaments, by completely ruining their backs, by having a bunch of them having big problems with the muscles themselves, some having heart defects. We've had a few situations on our football field in training to get a football player to fall into practice, because he can't take it anymore, he faints. We even had a death case a few years ago. Unfortunately, such things happen and they happen precisely because they use various illegal means. This is a good law because it will prevent it, but of course this is not enough. You must first of all return your profession to sports. The profession has been completely destroyed in sports and various private colleges that are reportedly engaged in sports, and I think they've contributed a lot, because they're constantly looking at how to make a profit somewhere, let's just say someone who's finished the DIF and educated for something like that today has no job, no job, no job, no job, because he's simply not wanted, because he doesn't want to kill a child, but simply wants to make him a good athlete. Of course, it doesn't fit various managers, it doesn't match various clubs that are about to start players and young athletes more and more to see as slaves, not as people who really should fit into top athletes. I understand, it's this battle in a capitalist society, which I usually personally advocate, but let's look at both Germany and France and Britain and all other countries, and how it takes care of the health of athletes. Unfortunately, it's become a system for us to give by the age of 16, the seventeen to make something out of it so we can sell it, and what kind of players we sell everything, especially, in football, is the best indicator that our clubs rarely get from the clubs where we sold a player because he comes in sick, or he comes in with a cross-ligaments or with his broken back, with damaged joints, etc. To begin with, I would like to invite you, what is essential, which we in our sport have to introduce, which is to bring back physical culture. So, not just a gym class at school as a gym class, but simply there's got to be a physical culture to educate a child, what's actually a sport practice? That's what we miss. I was recently in Russia and there in all schools they returned the Soviet system of sports education and the Soviet system of education in general because it proved to be good. There every school must have a pool, it must have an extraordinary handball hall, it must have an extraordinary football field. I know it's expensive here for us to perform, but some things in that segment we have to fix to get naturally healthy children. Among other things, I hope you do. As far as the profession itself is concerned, I'd like to ask you to make sure that the coaches in the future are above all pedagogues. You used to be a sportsman, too, and I was a sportsman. The first thing that coach did when he watched me develop some athlete, first he looks at your grades at school, because you can't have a good kid, or a good athlete if he's completely neglected at school, there's units, he's running away from class, etc. Unfortunately, coaches don't do that anymore. Because they were designed exclusively to create a player to make a profit for the club. I'd like to ask you to make sure, first of all, that the coach has to be a pedagogue. You have to have an absolute rule that in all sports clubs coaches must learn first of all, when we're talking about doping, to teach that child what is something that is illegal and to have lectures. It's not just a sense of training to run, to get fit, but you have to have a certain lecture, what doping is, what is it that's not allowed, so that a child doesn't take it and thus achieve some result. So, first of all, doping lectures have to be introduced into our clubs. As far as the law itself is concerned, it's a really good law. There's no objection. The only thing I'd like, and that's what you've listed here, in Article 4, this is devastating what has to be introduced, but says – The Anti-doping Agency publishes on its website the identity of a athlete or another person, unless it is a minor, for whom a first degree or final decision has been found to have committed an anti-doping right. It's terrible to even define that there's this possibility that a minor takes doping. It's completely incomprehensible to me. Where did we come as a society and all mankind at all, when minors take such a thing to achieve some result and sell themselves somewhere? What I have to ask you is about the very definition of doping. At the beginning of the law, I agree, it is said that it is forbidden to do drugs in sport, all that is fine, but when doping is defined in sport, it is said - in the sense of this law is the existence of one or more infringements of the anti-doping rules set out in Article 3 I would not fully agree with this. Article 3, among other things, states that it is illegal to take certain substances, etc., but for example, it is an injury and if you do not want to control yourself. That can't be doping. Doping is if I've taken an illicit substance, and breaking anti-doping rules is something else and I think I need to separate it, to define exactly what doping is, and what is breaking anti-doping rules. I think it would be much more useful, this is how it seems to be creating a little confusion and I'm personally an opponent, but of course it's up to you to see. In Article 20, point 2, where it is said that an anti-doping agency, which will be formed to finance itself, is said – from the budget, which I support. But I would delete the second point, so it is said that it can be financed from donations, contributions and sponsorship of domestic, foreign, legal and physical persons. I don't mind, these donations and prologues yet and somehow, but to unsponsor a public service like the anti-doping agency, I don't think it's good, because when you sponsor someone, you're looking against a favor. In this situation, it can be very complicated. I'm not saying there are laws defined and how donations are received and how contributions are received, but there's a system of possibilities of abuse being created because it's simply going to come someone and it's going to say we're going to give the money to sponsor the Antidoping Agency, but as a favor we're asking you to take that off our player and that we can use some substance. Let's say, there's a manager's firm that can say I want to sponsor the Antidoping Agency, and it's totally fine, but it says - take this off so it can achieve some kind of result. My colleagues suggest it's a little harder. It wouldn't go away in the world, but with us to achieve some result, to show up somewhere on the side can be a very big problem, and if it might be possible to make sure that this is somehow re-reformed, or at least that sponsorship is thrown out into a line of donations, a contribution. I totally understand that, but my sponsorship is very controversial, and I think maybe we should leave that out. As far as the rest of the law is concerned, I'm particularly glad that this is a criminal offence, that all those who would allow the use of doping funds and how criminally they respond. I see there's been a rather rigid sentence of two to ten years. I completely agree with that because those who otherwise make it possible to destroy generations and generations and I fully support the government of RS for suggesting such a thing. In voting day, of course, I, like all SNS MPs, will be very pleased to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10252	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10253	Since you asked a direct question about the definition of doping, the definition of doping is prescribed from the World Anti-doping Code and as such cannot be changed. I must point out that we had in some things when we translated the Antidoping Code worldly how to bring it into line with the Serbian dictionary and there was a misunderstanding, but this translation was only possible to translate in this way and to be applicable and to comply with all other laws and sublaws. Donations and sponsorship are regulated under the general regime and abuses are resolved by the general regime, but I am available to consider one more time and try together to find an idea solution. We're kind of limited in changing these areas because we've adopted something, and most of us haven't, and some things are absolutely conditional. I say again, we are available to discuss this subject. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10254	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10255	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, this law, as some of my colleagues have mentioned, could have been an example of good practice. He did not come before the MPs by emergency procedure. There was a public debate and the only place we could see the results of that public debate. I'm not going to talk about doping now as a modern-day monster because various kinds of natural doping as a stimulating substance exist 2,000 years ago, so we have examples of horse doping back in 1666 with arsenic in England. At the end of the 19th century, more serious use of doping begins, so that, in the middle and the second half of the 20th century, the use of doping in sport takes a more serious situation with a serious health and life-threatening athlete, and even in the last 100 years, we have 115 fatalities due to the use of these substances and a large number of health disorders again due to the use of them. So, doping there and doping used a long time ago. There are too many bad cases over and over again, so we can say today that we know all about doping. With the development and development of mass media, the development of technology and the development of medicine, we come up with new substances and are looking for new ways to use new doping. What's our mission? Since the international community is leading a strong legal fight against the use of doping in sport, it is our job to follow international steps, to coordinate these conventions with international and to support the Antidoping Agency. What did we do? In 2005, we passed an Antidoping Act based on the European Convention to Prevent Doping in Sports and the World Anti-doping Code. In 2005, we ratified the International Doping Convention, and in 2011, we adopted the Sport Act and somehow stopped there. Although the World Anti-doping Code was passed back in 2007, it only started to apply in 2009 and we have a new World Anti-doping Code, which seems to have been brought to me by the end of 2013 and that you ministers were present when it was adopted. It begins to apply on 1 January 2015, so we have again come to such a situation as to be in the teat, that in just two months the application of this code begins, and we have not yet brought ours into line with this since 2009. That's what I wanted in my address to draw attention to. We are adopting this law now because our athletes will not be able to participate in international competitions in the event that it is not adopted and as far as I understand it, we will not be able to organise any competitions. The law now passed in teat is not in any way due to our athletes or their results, but because we have delays again and we have deadlines. You are about 400 days Minister of this ministry, so I believe and want to ask you – could these laws have been passed earlier in 2013 or earlier in 2014? My main regret was the inactivity of the ministry, inertness. When I talk about the ministry in your portfolio of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, there are big topics, the position of young people in our society, the unemployment of young people, education, we have information that as many as 70% of young people consider violence a useful instrument in solving problems, and one way that we can solve this problem is involving young people in sports, both professionally and recreationally, or amateurally. Some more of my grudges go in the direction of inactivity in terms of education. It's also a grudge to the Antidoping Agency against alliances. This is also a legal obligation, Article 10 of Section 7 is very precise in relation to this necessary education. I pulled some data that says that our athletes are very familiar with the harmfulness of doping. However, a small percentage of athletes are familiar with it. I don't think 50% of them know what a banned substance is and even 60% of athletes are not familiar with this law that we're passing today and with the law that's been in force so far. I think it is necessary to draw attention and pay attention to those who are recreationally engaged in sports because they often do so in order to achieve their results reaching for illicit substances. These illicit substances are very often found in almost every gym and are available to all. It is necessary to educate young people about the harmfulness of these means with which they come into contact. It is very important that we fight smart doping in sport because sometimes it can have much better results than other things, because when we look at only the law and restrictive measures in all of this, there is always some space for working under the grain and I expect that you, as a minister and your education plan, build awareness of the fight against doping.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10256	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The Prime Minister, Mr. Vanja Udovicic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10257	You're right that we may be here too late in front of you with a bill on drug prevention. The public debate and the work on this law were done before the constitution of the new government, a public debate was held during the technical government itself, and therefore the full public debate was repeated again. Just because we wanted to stay out of the speedy process, we went the normal way, and that's why we're in front of you today with a law that did go through a general public debate. There wasn't much suggestion either the first time or the second time. So, I've done the same public debate with the same people twice, we've invited all relevant sports experts to join. The second time they felt they had nothing new to say on the bill, they felt that the law was as good as it was written and therefore, I repeat, the procedure was fully respected, from publication to implementation. I agree with you, as I said, and other MPs, we'll send a report from a public debate so people don't bother to look, but it's still a very clever reading written about the public debate itself, it's because of the Ministry's intruding. But again, this was the only possible deadline for meeting me at the Assembly. We even insisted that we come before you, the MPs, and before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible, so that we could agree to the sublegal acts, so as not to break any deadlines and be at the expense of our athletes. I'll answer to your recreationals later. They're athletes and how to get to know this law, maybe with a list of illicit substances I don't believe they are, because they can't even pronounce those substances that are on that list. That's why there's an Anti-doping agency that helps all athletes, it's available to all athletes, it's available, I have to say, 24 hours to all athletes, just to remove all the misunderstandings. I think a lot of us now should read, we don't really know what that substance means. What I didn't say in the opening statement, the athlete may at some point ask for the exemption of some of the substances due to therapy itself. He is obliged to inform the doctor that he is a professional athlete and the doctor is obliged to adapt therapy to him, but if you have diabetics and asmatics, he must spend his whole life conducting his therapy in which certain permitted doping substances are found. The licence is carried out every year by the National Anti-doping Agency or the International Sports Organisation. As far as recreationals are concerned, I think at this point with this number of people dealing with this topic we're fully active at all points of this law. As for the training of recreationals themselves, we can't reach someone if they don't want to accept education. It happened on the ground that the recreationals refused to fill in the informant first, to fill out some general information that we're giving to see how familiar they are with this problem in the first place, this negative phenomenon. We can't influence anyone that he's trained against his will. We can do all kinds of campaigns, we can talk about it. That's what you do, maybe to an insufficient extent. We will do our best in the coming period to strengthen our activity on this plan, but right now our focus is a group of athletes, not only professional athletes, which are the most talked about here, when the talk of athletes everyone thinks about professional athletes, not, but every athlete who is in the system of sports, every athlete who competes and who is in a system that is recognised by the Republic of Serbia. That's why it's very difficult and sincere for us to ask you and for your help to educate all citizens, everyone to the extent that he can educate, to convey his knowledge in order to prevent these phenomena, because I think this is of general importance and that help is necessary to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10258	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, and let the folk's letter Adrian Anastasov be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10259	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to law, I would like to agree with my dear colleague sitting across from me, that there are MPs who catch the cold coming to the meetings of the National Assembly because the topic is important, because the laws are important. Yes, and I came here today for a cold at this session of the National Assembly because I think it's important this law, but it doesn't allow me to bring in any chain packages, no food, no drink, no other things. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is an important bill of law, a bill to prevent doping in sport. What I would like to point out immediately at the beginning of my participation in the principle debate is that for Serbia as a country of sport, as a country of outstanding world-renowned sports workers who have also won the most prestigious world signs in individual but collective sport, this law is truly important, true, because the results we have achieved in this area have put Serbia very high on the map of the world. And if we are not a country that is its size, which, by its population and its economy, can compete, precisely thanks to sport, Serbia has the right to call itself a world power in some respect. All these facts have left a significant mark on the building of the character of the entire nation. Proud of our athletes and mentioned results, we became a society that highly values fair play and fair competence. That's why it's very important for us to have this law, the law that you regulate exactly the ones that appear to be with these values. For Serbia, this area is important also because it refers to that sphere in which we best represent the world, but also because it best paints the system of values that we seek. By adopting the proposed law, we will help the athletes, sports workers and sports in general. In addition to the already mentioned alignment with the International Convention on Doping and the World Anti-doping Code, as well as the alignment with the applicable Sport Act of 2011, this law should be adopted in order to best regulate and improve the field of fight against doping in sports in Serbia, in line with the changes made in all international documents concerning the prevention of doping in sport. When this law is compared with the 2005 Anti-doping Code Law, certain amendments are clearly seen in a clearer definition of infringement of anti-doping rules, which are established by the World Anti-doping Code, then, more specifically, determining that sanctions against athletes due to anti-doping rules can be imposed by authorised anti-doping organisations in a manner prescribed by the World Anti-doping Code, then, more specifically, determining the obligations of all sports organisations to prevent doping, clearly defining certain jurisdiction and powers of the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, are more specifically regulated and authorised by sports inspectors, which is particularly important in this case, as well as the harmonisation of criminal and criminal criminal policies with criminal law and criminal penalties under the Sport Act. By adopting this law, we are entering the order of the states that have regulated this area legally. Taking into account the new regulations of the World Anti-doping Code, which take effect next year, which will enable our athletes to participate in major international competitions, because athletes from countries who do not comply with their anti-doping rules with the provisions of the World Anti-doping Code will not have the right to participate. I want to invite you to support this bill and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10260	Thank you, too. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'll also inform you that we'll be working without a break, so I ask you to bring your personal needs into line in the meantime at your discretion. The People's Messenger Adrian Anastasias has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10261	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, this bill clearly shows the Republic of Serbia's concern, a huge concern about the country's potential, which is reflected in successful athletes in all sports, youth care, sports and quality spending of the free time of children and young people of all ages. In our country, with an extremely turbulent history, young people wanted to achieve some sort of success, to get out of their cities, out of their country, into a better and better future. Being a successful athlete became very important, and the young wanted it at all costs. They wanted to be and want to be the new Vanja Udovic, the new Novak Djokovic, the new Ana, Jelena, the new Sasa Djordjevic. A huge desire for success in sports has led to the beginning of the use of doping funds in Serbia as well. In Serbia, the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports was adopted in 2005, based on the European Convention on the Prevention of Doping in the Sports of the Council of Europe and the 2003 World Anti-Doping Code. In 2009, Serbia ratified the International Convention against Doping in Sports and thus took the obligation to take further stronger action aimed at eliminating doping in sport. According to the provisions of the World Anti-doping Code, a number of provisions must be taken over and accepted by all participants in the sport system. Otherwise, athletes from those countries cannot participate in major international sports competitions. The group also includes provisions on what is considered to be an infringement of the anti-doping rules and what are sanctions. The anti-doping system in Serbia is based on the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports and on the responsible attitude of national sports alliances. We have also talked here about the mistakes made during the work of certain border national sports alliances, and above all I would say that in the past over 100 national sports alliances only 56 national sports alliances have carried out their legal obligations concerning the adoption of general anti-doping acts, the adoption of anti-doping programmes, the determination of measures and procedures in the event of established doping of athletes, etc. The aim of this law is to improve the fight against doping in sport and to align with changes made in international documents in the meantime. Basic fundamental changes concern defining infringements of the anti-doping rules, determining that sanctions against athletes for infringement of anti-doping rules are imposed by authorised anti-doping agencies and organisations in the Republic of Serbia, clearer determination of obligations by all organisations in the field of sport, precision of jurisdiction and authority of the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, harmonisation of criminal law policies with comparative-law solutions and harmonisation of criminal penalties with criminal penalties under the Sport Act. Most successful athletes in Serbia would tell you that success and results are achieved only through great work and effort. Constant warning, raising awareness and informing athletes is necessary for their healthy development. Promoting the sports spirit represents a celebration of the human spirit, body, and mind. It is characterized by ethics, fair play, honesty, health, exceptional achievements, teamwork, dedication, respect for rules and laws, respect for yourself and other participants, courage, unity and solidarity. That is why I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this bill, because it is the only way we will continue the fight against doping in sports and support successful athletes, who are only there thanks to their enormous work and effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10262	The word has a National MP, Ninoslav Giric, and let Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic be prepared. Here you go, Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10263	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is before us a proposal of a truly quality law, primarily a comprehensive and very precise one, to prevent doping in sport. It is qualitative in all segments, from anti-doping rules, i.e. very clearly indicated when an infringement of the anti-doping rules occurred, to criminal provisions covering all participants in the infringement of the anti-doping rules. To remind ourselves that in 2005, the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, but in 2009 and 2013, the World Anti-doping Code was adopted and Serbia adopted the UNESCO International Convention against Doping in Sports. In 2009, this Convention was ratified by the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention against Doping in Sports. So, this law has been tasked with removing the differences that exist in the 2005 Act, which you, ministers, have very clearly explained, and the World Anti-doping Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2015. Once again, let's say that anti-doping organisations, primarily the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, the World Anti-doping Agency and international and national alliances, have been authorised. The anti-doping agency, in addition to having at least once a year established a list of banned doping funds, which, of course, is in line with the World Anti-doping Agency's list of banned funds. In addition, the Anti-doping Agency lays down rules for the approval of exceptions, i.e. in the case of therapeutic use of certain means. Accordingly, a doctor who prescribes an athlete's remedy that contains banned substances for treatment is required to inform the athlete. This is very important, and I would give a really unpretentious example of my experience, primarily with a top-notch sport called '70s and '80s handball, when this sport was at the Yugoslav and world top, and then also as a doctor of the Football Federation of Yugoslavia and the Football Federation of Serbia-Montenegro. I have worked with all ages of representatives and potential representatives, from football school to qualifications and participation in European competitions. When it comes to the use of doping funds, the basic problem was in younger categories, in younger categories of footballers, this time footballers, especially those coming from smaller communities and smaller clubs. Individuals used doping funds without any knowledge of what they were facing. Of course, in the selection itself, the problem was solved first by preventing and confiscating substances, and then by continuous, or continuous education. More colleagues here talked about these educations, but I think it needs to be strengthened, especially in the field, and especially towards smaller environments. So I want to point out that today, at the time of achieving top-notch results in all sports, athletes from the first day when they come to meet with sports, all actors, from coaches, health staff and others, have to work on the personal and education of athletes when it comes to doping substances. I'm saying this first of all so we can have healthy athletes and not jeopardize participation in major international competitions. In addition, this bill also defines that the supervision of the application of laws and regulations adopted under the law is carried out by the ministry responsible for sport, of course, through inspection supervision, or sports inspectors. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I think they're quite appropriate and it's very important that they include all the players in sports and sports. Given the quality of the law and the really great precision in all the legal provisions, I call on all MP groups to support this law in the voting day. Of course, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10264	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, and then Violeta Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10265	Thank you, Chairman. Since the minister is not here, respected co-workers of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is clear that the draft law on the agenda today regulates and norms an extremely dynamic area, so also national regulations, but also regulations on the global level, which are dedicated to this topic, require constant correction, complementarity and improvement. Today, it is our task to bring the new Bill of Law into line with the Law on Sports behind 2011, but also to improve and coordinate the area of fight against doping in sport with the current international rules solutions. The new legal solutions regulate the following areas, and you talked about it in your opening statement, which is to define infringement of anti-doping rules in the way established by the world anti-doping code, how to impose sanctions on athletes and other persons because of infringement of the anti-doping rules, regulate the obligations of all sports organisations in relation to the prevention of doping, the jurisdiction of sports inspectors, the harmonisation of criminal and criminal sanctions. First of all, as a doctor and as a humanist, whose human life and health is a priority, I need to point out all the devastating facts of the drug use that are negatively reflected in the entire health system of users of these funds. Today we know that there are various pharmacological substances, various stimulants, start with narcotics, anabolics that were very popular in the 1970s and 80s, then diuretics, local anaesthetics, choritic preparations, betablockers and many others, and their fatal fact is manifested through hepatic impairment, kidney function, hormonal dysbalance, which in men athletes lead to dynacomastia, impotence, erectile dysfunction, and in women athletes leads to hypotrophy of reproductive organs, irregular menstrual cycles, with all the consequences, then early growth and many things, and indeed. In addition to a health disorder, athletes who use doping drugs are not and cannot be accepted from a moral aspect, because it is not fair to a number of athletes who do not use doping. When we talk about motives, what are the motives for using doping. They are numerous, above all, personality itself, dissatisfaction with the result and progress in sports career, the desire of athletes to cope with anxiety and with stress, ethical values, the belief that others use doping, easy falling under the influence of other people, lack of confidence and lack of knowledge about the facts of illicit substances. In addition, motives can arise from the environment of athletes, which are educators, trainers, family, friends, society, fans, mass media, organisers, competitions, financial and material rewards, but also national political and ideological reasons. A sport that has more and more stopped being a game today, entertainment, recreation has become a profession, unfortunately the money industry and includes a lot of things in itself that are illegal and dangerous, which as a result leads to an individual's health disorder. It is alarming that in the younger selections there is a tendency to use unauthorized funds and all in order to achieve top-notch results, and in the background of all that, I have the impression that the money that is dominant and that many young athletes put their lives on the line, so I believe that doping in sport is a death sport and that it should be completely eradicated. In the end, I'd like to say that the spectrum of methods for doping is increasing daily and the tests for detecting illicit substances in the organism are either obsolete or out of date, or they're too expensive and therefore unstandard. All of this imposes on us the obligation to regularly follow trends in the world and bring our legislation into line with solutions made by international bodies, because as a highly gifted sports nation we must not close the door to our athletes to access any competition or to organise any competition, so that the SNS in the voting day will support this bill. Personally, I urge all fellow Members to also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10266	The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac, and let Nikola Jolovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10267	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, is in front of us today to discuss a very important law, a bill on banning the use of doping funds in sport. This bill would be referred primarily to as one young sports active person, on the one hand, and as a doctor on the other. We know that the focus of a modern sport today is actually who can do it faster, stronger and better. Based on these thesises, we can also debate the very situations where they are used in sportsmen banned funds, i.e. doping funds. Antidoping can be viewed as one lifestyle. The style of life of a healthy young athlete who primarily promotes his experience, his skills in a healthy way, sits down. Then, he promotes a fair play relationship, respects his colleagues and other participants, his own personality. Motives for the use of banned substances, i.e. doping, may vary. As a doctor, I would point out that the most common motive is the personality itself, the dissatisfaction of the athlete himself compared to a fellow who compares and the desire to, say, eliminates the same from the game and so on. They also exist as motives where athletes reach for banned substances and values as moral values, as well as material values. The most commonly used substances, banned substances are anabolic agents, then steroids, corticosteroids, nitrates, beta blockers and blood doping. I would just say that according to the provisions of the world anti-doping code, there are actually certain provisions and rules that every participant in the sport must adhere to. A country that does not adopt those rules and those provisions are not able to participate in international world competitions. This fact itself, and not by adopting such a bill, we do great damage to our athletes, especially when we refer to the fact that they achieve exceptional results in sports. Since 2006, the Antidoping Agency has conducted a study, i.e. an analysis of blood samples in athletes where it is possible to find banned substances or metabolites of banned substances and 49 athletes who were doping positive have been found. Most athletes were found in martial arts, which is logical, wrestling, boxing, then bodybuilding and not a much smaller number in the handball. In fact, breach of anti-dping rules involves not only the existence of doping substances or metabolites in the blood of athletes, but also the participation of athletes in all processes and delivery or transport, sending in all processes of selling banned substances. In fact, by adopting such a bill on banning the use of doping by athletes, we primarily protect athletes, but also all young people who are interested in sports, and the policy of this government is directed in this direction so that I will support this bill in front of the SNS in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10268	The word has a People's MP Nikola Jolovic, and then let Cvetanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10269	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs. Appreciating the socially accepted view that the right can be called the system of human behavior norms that are prescribed and in the event of a violation of the sanctioned state, and that the right for its elections is in moral, customs and ethics, especially justice and respecting the fact that our legislation adopts European norms and solutions from life, business and arrangements of state-of-the-art and its citizens, is a clear reason and necessary need for the adoption of a law on the prevention of doping in sport. Sport has actually become a profession through the development of society, not a recreation and activity that improves the lives of both individuals and communities. She can be paid twice, bring him glory, of course with fame comes money. Therefore, with the presence of growing competition, individual athletes exhibit extreme efforts to achieve significant results and inevitably spend and destroy their bodies. However, some individuals are unable to achieve top-notch results with their current physical capabilities and reach for the use of banned things and methods, which will allow them to significantly exceed the limits and potentials of their body in terms of speed and strength of movement, muscle fatigue and so forth. The sense of sport that is defined through the slogan – faster, stronger, more, loses every sense. Unfortunately, the number of such individuals is increasing and causes the phenomenon that banned things and methods must be taken to achieve the ultimate result, as they cannot be achieved in a natural way. I'm going to cite an example of doping antivitamins that have no body regeneration properties, but they're only currently mentally removing and blocking fatigue, so that they bring the health of athletes into real danger. An increasing number of injuries, diseases and deaths led to the need to control the things athletes take, so that the first doping controls in major sports competitions took place in 1968 at the Summer Olympic Games in Mexico. Given the generally accepted view that sport is fun, recreation and way of achieving health, and the form of knight's competition, estimating that a regular sports game requires that every athlete must have equal conditions in sports events, because only then does the sports competition have its own purpose and a real winner, a athlete who at that time surpasses other participants with his physical predisposition and lucidity, it is clear that society does not want to believe that the use of doping in it is done. Adversaries of doping consummates cheat on that society, because they're really presenting themselves to something they're not. The following is also said by estimating that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the prevention of doping in sport is contained in Article 97 of Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the field of sport and knowing that, under the auspices of UNESCO, the International Convention against Doping in Sports, which the Republic of Serbia ratified in 2009, has thus taken the obligation to take further and stronger action towards the elimination of doping in sport, the Serbian government has put this bill before us today in this high house. The International Doping Convention shall refer to the uniform application of the basic provisions of the World Anti-doping Code in all States of the signatories of the Convention. The World Anti-doping Code suffered significant changes in 2009, and the next set of amendments to the laws of this Code will take effect from 1 January 2015. According to the provisions of the World Anti-doping Code, there are a number of provisions that must be consistently taken over and accepted by all participants in the world's sports system, because, otherwise, country athletes who do not comply with their anti-doping rules with those provisions cannot participate in major international sports competitions. The International Convention against Doping in Sports made it clear that the public authorities and sports organisations have a complementary responsibility in preventing and combating doping in sport, in particular with regard to ensuring the proper flow of sport events based on fair play and in protecting the health of their participants. The aim of this law is to improve the field of anti-doping in sports in the Republic of Serbia and to bring it into line with changes made in international documents related to the prevention of doping in sport, taking into account comparative legal solutions. All the basic issues in this bill are arranged as established by the World Anti-doping Code, especially given that our sports organisations must literally accept what is considered to be doping in a sport from the World Anti-doping Code, otherwise they cannot participate in international sports competitions, nor can they organise such sports competitions in our country. In Article 6. The proposal for a law which retains a solution from the applicable Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports is prescribed for the obligations of athletes regarding the provision of doping control and sanctions for its avoidance or disabling. In addition, in order to improve preventive work to prevent doping in sport, and given the importance and role of sports experts, especially coaches, for the development of athletes, it is guaranteed that professional training and training of sports experts, which is otherwise regulated by the Sport Act, must include content related to the prevention of doping in sport. Article 13 provides for those who are subject to control outside the competition, as well as that non-competition doping controls can also be carried out on a reasoned proposal from a sports organisation of certain athletes and competent national sports associations, with the costs of carrying out doping controls, as well as at the request of the ministry responsible for sports affairs. Controls outside the competition, of course, are subject to athletes who are in the status of the Olympic candidate, top and other categorized athletes, athletes and international rank, athletes who want to continue their sports career after the expiry of the non-participation measures in doping competitions, as well as other categories of athletes designated by the anti-doping agency. We see clearly from all of this that there are no pardons and that they are, above all, the most successful and most famous athletes around the world. The bill stipulates that, in addition to disqualification of sports results and temporary suspensions, the ban on participation in competitions, the ban on performing sports affairs and other disciplinary measures established by the World Anti-doping Code and the sport rules of the relevant national international sports alliances, are to be imposed. One example is the fine provided for, the rules of certain international sports alliances. Therefore, on the basis of all this and on the basis of all the reasons, I believe that solutions offered in the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports are very correct, and necessary from the aspect of compliance, with international regulations and norms that define this area, and also to comply with the Criminal Law on the type of criminal act and the level of possible impediment, where I believe there is no obstacle to the adoption of this bill. In voting day, the SNS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10270	The People's Messenger Milorad Cvetanović has the word, then Mirjana Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10271	I will try to convince you of this brief presentation, the necessity of accepting and voting one of these laws, the law on the prevention of doping in sport, as well as its consistent application in practice after its adoption. I'll also try to convince you about a thin thread that separates doping in sports and narcotics in a drugstore. I'm going to take it all out through an experienced prism, as a contestant player, as a graduate pedagogist coach and as a sports management coach. Lately, taking illicit pharmacology to the next extent is present with athletes, and considering briefly this area, I will try to explain the motives of athletes to take illicit funds, which can also be life-threatening. The definition of doping is not in line with modern achievements in the field of medical sports, but we will nevertheless list some who claim to be. Unauthorized introduction of pharmacologically stimulating agents in order to raise psychophysical ability, drug abuse, drugs in sports that harm the human organism and can cause death. Abuse of substances or any means intended to artificially increase the physical ability of athletes, which can harm health, punishable use of a chemical agent that contributes to overcoming the feeling of fatigue and increasing endurance. The motives related to the use of doping are, we can cite them – ethical values, belief that others use doping, easy falling under the influence of other people, lack of confidence, etc. Under the motives that arise from the surroundings of athletes we can seduce coaches, family and friends, fans, organizers of competition, society, financial, material rewards and other ideological reasons. The sport today stopped being nothing but entertainment. He's become a business, which means a lot of things illegal and dangerous. Anabolic steroids, which during the 1970s and 1980s were most commonly used as doping agents in professional sports, have been replaced by growth hormone in this decade. Right there is one of the crucial hidden problems. Desirable fame, high-end results, too fast success, and we have stated that sport has long since come out of the frame of carefree play and competition, parents, persons involved in careers, work and follow-up of a child's career, not thinking about the consequences that will first reflect on the health of a child at an adolescent age, are easily reaching out for a variety of stimulating means, asking them for faster and better physical maturity, the ability to support extraserial efforts, unsuitable for that age. Large world powers, capital owners in the world's largest and European clubs, want at all costs, as soon as possible and cheaper as possible to get their hands on prey in the form of very young and prospective players, especially from not so economically developed countries, and very talented, such as Serbia, Brazil, African countries, looking for a chance to gain as much capital as possible, buying their youth, talent and prematurely acquired physical maturity caused by taking just these banned substances. Not caring for their age, so not so many times we witnessed the death of a player on the ground in the adolescent age. But who cares about that? Sports like the money industry swallows everything, grinds everything and makes up for everything lost. We as an extremely talented country for sport that has surprised many European and world champions, unfortunately we allow for our not very envious economic situation, the early departure of our children to world and European sports markets, artificially developed because of the use of unauthorized funds, precisely because of the desire of those who seek to gain wealth at the expense of children's health, and most often during the period between 16 and 18 years. Insufficient education, prevention in terms of lectures on sports clubs, which are hardly at all not available in youth selections, warning young generations that doping funds are very close to narcotics and that their use does not rarely lead to very tragic consequences. I would not talk about banned substances, you can find them on the Doping Agency's website, but about the Doping Act that we simply have to adopt, because I quote: "The world anti-doping code has suffered significant changes in 2009, and since 1 January 2015 the next set of amendments to this code will take effect. According to the provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code, there is a subordinate number of provisions that must literally be taken over and accepted by all participants in the world’s sport system. Otherwise, country athletes who do not comply with their anti-doping rules with those provisions of the code cannot participate in major international sports competitions." It's a finished quote. The anti-doping agency of Serbia, we can freely say that it is considered one of the leading agencies in Europe, but I am sure that because of the lack of financial resources, the work could not have been more comprehensive. I am using this opportunity to appeal to all the professional services involved in controlling, voicing measures, research work and all that requires that they devote much more space to education and teaching about the harmfulness of doping funds. Whether by sending volunteers lecturers and sports lovers or by turning through media like advertising videos, just as it is done in suppressing drug abuse, because it is not enough to express criminal measures, but to prevent them from taking away the same. I will mention this – that each athlete is personally responsible for the presence of illicit substances in his body. It is his duty to ensure that no doping substance enters his body. The recommendation is always to consult the National Anti-Doping Agency if the athlete is not sure about the composition of the drug. The anti-doping system in sports in the Republic of Serbia is based on the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports and on the responsible attitude of national sports alliances towards this problem, as well as other sports organisations. The aim of this law is to improve the field of anti-doping in sports in the Republic of Serbia and to comply with changes made in international documents relating to the prevention of doping in sport, taking into account comparative legal solutions. The bill provides for infringements of anti-doping rules to give individual qualifications of sports results, temporary suspensions, prohibitions of participation in competitions, prohibitions of performance in sports and other disciplinary measures established by the world anti-doping code and the sport rules of the relevant national sports alliances. These include, for example, fines provided for by the rules of certain international sports alliances. Doping in sports is the death of sports and therefore needs to be completely eradicated. As a pedagogist, as the owner of the UEFA coaching license, as a graduate manager in sports, a parent of almost a professional in our most massive sport, football, I appeal to the unequivocal support of this law and its consistent application in practice and life at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10272	The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10273	Thank you. I just wanted to do two or three things that you said to say just because you recognize many of the problems you've listed, this law does it directly. As you mentioned other persons, these trainers, you mentioned parents, but this law also applies to persons who directly participate in the work of the athletes themselves, and these are two new infringements of anti-doping rules, association and complicity, because in the case of Lance Armstrong, which everyone now mentions, in the previous exhibition it has proved to be responsible. The biggest responsibility here was his team, and it was the team who had been pushing the athlete all along, where all the people admitted that they were on that team, starting with the director of his team, i.e. The club for which he performed, to the very doctor who followed his completion. By law, Article 6 prescribes education and experts in the field of sports just to prevent us from working. So all of what you've stated, that I'm not going too far right now, but some things are just for that very reason put here, because we recognize the meaning of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10274	Thank you, Minister. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10275	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the esteemed fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of this honored home of the proposal for a law to prevent doping in a sport that we will discuss in principle, which is in line with all international regulations and a new world anti-doping code that will enter into force in January this year. The adoption of this law will make it easier for our athletes to participate in all the international competitions they are interested in, as recently taking doping funds into sport has become increasingly common. Doping made this law clear and sanctioned. The beginnings of doping funds reach the very beginning of the Old Greece Olympic Games, when athletes took various types of mushrooms that gave them greater strength and endurance to achieve better results. It's not a newspaper. Today, however, pharmaceutical homes have so perfected chemical formulas for certain preparations that it is very difficult to identify what doping is. Doping also used armies in wars to artificially raise the courage and endurance of its soldiers. It is known from our history that Vojvoda Misic ordered the Intendant Service to take away all the brandy from the soldiers and, along with the army reserve, to cook that brandy and give the soldiers a hot share before the beginning of the Kolubar battle. It was a kind of doping. There are countless examples in history. Doping is a way in which athletes, using chemical means or other types of medical interventions, for example, blood exchanges, try to overcome the results of other athletes or their own best results at the expense of their health. This means that doping, in addition to health damage, is an unsporting and immoral act, and the result that this athlete achieves is a fraud. The fraud must be sanctioned and this is one of the reasons why this law is passed. The doping funds improved year after year, and the number of athletes using them grew bigger and bigger. However, only in 1967 did the International Olympic Committee prohibit the use of doping. Doping means are used in all types of sports, especially in bodybuilding, bodybuilding, wrestling, boxing, cycling, and even doping animals in various types of horse sports and games. Lance Amstrong was a pet of the American nation and the best cyclist in the history of this sport. Seven times consecutively, he won the most prestigious cycling race, "Tour de France". During his long career, he was accused of taking doping, but they proved it only in 2012, so they banned him from a further competition, and they took away all seven titles he won at the Tour de France. And in the tennis world, there were a number of drug scandals. One of the best German and world tennis players, Andre Agasi, published in his biography that he was using drugs, but that ATP covered up his case. The law says that doping in sports is forbidden and therefore clearly defines breaking anti-doping rules. The athlete is obliged to allow antidoping control, and whoever rejects it, does not approach it, avoids or does not allow doping testing, will be given a measure of violation of the antidoping rules, as if on the doping test he was positive. In the event of such an attempt, it may also be given a ban on competition for a certain period. It's a known case of our Troickie tennis player, who refused to undergo antidoping control. He's been punished for a year not playing tennis. Before this sentence he was among the world's top 20 tennis players, and upon returning to tennis court he went from the beginning and entered the first 900. Infringement of anti-doping rules is also understood when a sportsman illegally owns a doping agent, unauthorized sales, organization of sport, sending, delivery or distribution of a banned doping substance or volume doping method, physically or electronically or otherwise. Doping control is, according to the law, a procedure involving planning test schedules, selecting athletes for testing, collecting and handling samples, laboratory analysis, leading results, searches and complaints. Doping control can be organised in competitions, out of competition, can be announced, but also unannounced. It shall be carried out by taking urine samples and by blaming or applying other authorised techniques to detect prohibited substances and methods. Authorised anti-doping organisations are the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, the World Anti-doping Agency, competent international sports alliances such as the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee, the International Sports Union, the Olympic Committee of Serbia, the Paralympic Committee of Serbia, the Sports Union of Serbia and the National Border Sports Alliance. Doping control can only be carried out by authorised and qualified persons who possess the legislation issued by the Anti-doping Agency or recognised by that agency as equivalent. The criminal provisions of this law are quite rigorous. Those who are athletes to either prescribe, issue or to athletes apply doping funds, quote him, help him or otherwise allow him to use a doping agent to be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. If it is a minor athlete, whether it is a multiple person or it has caused particularly serious consequences, the perpetrator will be punished for two to ten years in prison. The law stipulates that a prison of three to 12 years punishes one who does not have the power to produce, process, sell or offer for sale, buy for sale, hold, transfer, transfer to sell or purchase a doping asset and otherwise unauthorizedly puts the asset on the market. Penalty from six months to five years is also provided for persons who make, acquire, own and use equipment, material or substances they know are intended for production or preparation of doping. When it comes to violations, the fine between 400,000 and 1,000,000 dinars will be obtained by the National Sports Association, sports organisation and another legal entity if it unauthorizedly interferes or tries to disrupt any part of the doping control. The fines from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars for the same offence will punish the responsible person in the National Sports Association, i.e. the sports organisation and the other legal person. The fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars will be fined by a sportsman using a doping agent, if he refuses or does not approach without a convincing justification for giving a sample after notification or avoiding giving a sample otherwise. The fines from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars or prisons for up to 60 days will punish a natural person who is not authorized to transport, send, deliver or distribute a banned doping product directly or through the third party to any person in the field of sport. Also, one who in any way participates in a violation of the anti-doping rules or in breaching the rates of banning participation in sport will be punished. The World Anti-doping Agency, which gives and needs anti-doping organisations, is controlling the respect of the world's unique anti-doping policy, that their work is in line with the World Anti-doping Code. Our Antidoping Agency has received such confirmation and is considered one of the best organizations in the world. The newspapers it brings, as well as the comprehensive definition and sanctioning of doping in sport, are sufficient reason for the SNS in the voting day to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10276	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Biljana Ilic-Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10277	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are tasked with amending and supplementing the latest versions of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, adopted nine years ago, to bring this part of the system rules in line with those international rules prescribed by the World Anti-doping Agency. Since the latest version of the amended and updated Antidoping Code is already in effect as of the first day of the coming year, we have a very responsible role to play, to adopt a quality document which is a deciding legal framework for the performance of our athletes in international sports competitions. If I understood correctly, any discrepancy of domestic anti-doping legislation would be an obstacle for our athletes to verify their efforts, work and talent on international sports arenas through early elimination. From here I want to believe that experts for this area have created at this point the most qualitative possible bill and that in terms of its agreement with international acts to which we have committed ourselves to ratification. It is therefore very important that, when discussing and amending which should correct this bill, the imperative of its full and comprehensive compliance with the International Anti-doping Code. In this context, I want to believe that on this subject we will show a high degree of consent, accountability and above all expeditionivity, so that we do not endanger the timely and legal validity of the new version of the amended and updated law. This belief is based on the fact that we are all here, no matter what ideology or what foreigners belonged to, equally fans of our sports clubs, when they come out on an international stage to measure their strength with athletes from other countries. As I'm sure of it, we can at first agree that, and in recent years, especially more and more, our athletes may be the best ambassadors of our country around the world, despite everything and possibly against the logic that sport today is mostly highly professionalized activity and that the exceptional results in it must be the product of exceptional investments in athletes and in the conditions in which they work and that it has to be more or less and it is in correlation with the level of national income, i.e. the degree of investment in top sport. It is no longer a political or other kind of goodwill or a decision to invest in sports. Unfortunately, this is about objective opportunities and imperatives of priority. He invests when and as much as he can. Then every once in a while, our athletes are doing us the best we can. They conquer one of the first places, medals, whose brightness in terms of reality, circumstances are more brighter and unlike some other parameters where we are compared to the rest of the world at one of the beginnings of the once-distant three-digital two-digit places, our athletes win the thrones. That's why they're not just our best ambassadors, but the real collective psychotherapists of the nation. They feed us national pride and remind us again how good we can be when we stand for something, even when we lack conditions and resources that have been very often excused for just inaction and for giving up at the very beginning. Advocacy for anti-doping is also a fundamental commitment to the concept of preserving the essential character of sport, chivalry and fair competition in sports skills, whose boundaries are daily and unequivocally moving, in which with a significant factor of sports happiness it is better at present, not only the goal, but the mere victory, but the game and competition, in which only one can be the winner, but the participant is much more and where the most brilliant victory of the triumph of the sports spirit, true and authentic, which can be successfully transferred to other spheres of life, where we have rarely turned ourselves in advance and I have ignored the meaning of the Olympic calling – faster, more, stronger. That's why sport is so much more than the limits of a sports field. He's the way and philosophy of life or something more ground floored, one of our best national products, a real national brand, so it's good to look up to our athletes. They are, by all accounts, a better part of us. Therefore, support for this proposal is our small, humble token of gratitude for the glory that our athletes bring to the world and contribute to the reputation of the country and each one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10278	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10279	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today the Law on Preventing Doping in Sports. My colleagues from the SNS, particularly fellow doctors, gave a medical definition of doping. As for the medical definition, I wouldn't have anything else to add. I totally agree with them. My colleague, otherwise the same doctor, Mrs. Mrdakovic, said in her last sentence that doping was a sport death. I totally agree with that, and I think that doping death is in sports and that's why it's always our job to root it out. How do you doping in sports root out? Exactly, one way is that which you have proposed today, which is – through the legal framework, that is, through legislation. I will immediately specify the first member who I consider to be the most significant in this bill, which is the cornerstone of the entire law from which all other legal provisions are drawn, which is Article 2 of Article 1 which clearly and unequivocally says that doping in sport is prohibited. Of course, the reasons for the adoption of this law are to comply with international documents and the World Anti-doping Code, but also, the adoption of this law stemmed from the need for a comprehensive analysis of the previous law and the detection of the shortcomings that existed in the law mentioned. Also, the reason for passing this law is to agree with the Constitution. What I particularly want to point out is the transparency and the public that preceded the adoption of this law and on which you are certainly on whom you, Mr. Minister, and how worthy of it. Transparency and the public, the participation of all segments of society in the adoption of laws, is also important in terms of more effective law enforcement. What I also want to point out, and what this law promotes, is a sports spirit, which is otherwise the basis of olympics, and otherwise, the International Olympic Committee established an anti-doping rule in 1975. Besides being a sports spirit basically of olympics, it's basically olympics, and the idea that it's not about who won, it's about how he fought. The idea suggests that anti-doping philosophy is a lifestyle that promotes and that significant social values, which are the social values of honesty, the social values of fair play, the social value of health, solidarity, teamwork, respect and respect for opponents. What's what we haven't had in decades? We didn't have any positive social values. The task of athletes, one of the greatest, which refers to this broader social context and this social aspect, certainly is that they contribute to the creation of positive social values precisely because they support a huge number of young people, a vast young generation and a huge number of young generations, they are role models and idols, and we know that young generations have a need to identify themselves with their idols. By identifying themselves with their idols, they also identify themselves with positive social values, which is certainly the aim of the SNS. As far as the law itself is concerned, of course there are anti-doping rules that are absolutely transposed from the World Anti-doping Code, then, sanctions concerning deafening anti-doping rules have also been transposed, because in fact they must be legally transposed into our legal legislation. What I particularly want to stress is that it is a preventive, i.e. educational character, which is implemented through this law somewhere, and not only the educational character of sports experts who have an obligation that, when they are perfected, necessarily during that training, they have content relating to the harmful fact of doping, but also, the obligation to perfectise, to keep informing, uninterrupted informers have all categories of athletes, starting from the youngest. It's somewhere plotted as continuous activity, but the law specified it to be at least once a year, so that all registered athletes of all age categories would be familiar with the harmful effects of doping and anti-doping rules. What I also want to praise is to monitor the implementation of this law, because other than what the law is supposed to be basically good, it is very important that the supervision, or control of this law, is done primarily by professional persons. In this bill, the Ministry of Oversight entrusted sports inspectors, who, of course, are obliged to return delivery information to the Ministry of Education and Sports. I'd also like to cite what's new, it's an obligation of sports associations and sports associations that instead of seven days ago, now the application for a sports competition is reporting to the 21st day Antidoping Agency, in order to prepare itself in time and fully for sports competitions. There is also the obligation of sports associations and national sports alliances to deliver their sports competitions to the Anti-doping Agency at the end of the year, so that, of course, the Agency will bring its plan and programme into line with what is essentially her job and that is consistent with sports competitions. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I would like to suggest compliance with Article 246. Criminal Code, and Article 247. Criminal Code, which refers to the equalisation of criminal penalties for the use of doping with a criminal act, enable the use of intoxicating drugs and the equalisation of criminal penalties for illicit production and the placing on the market of doping with a criminal act, illicit production and the placing on the market of intoxicating agents. What I would like to say before the end to you, Your Honors Minister, no doubt, is that from this law comes a great deal of attention from your ministry and you personally. At the beginning of your address, you told us that today you had a bigger porch than when you were winning sports results. I want to believe that this porch is in fact, and I think that this porch is the result of your excessive responsibility, because you are in one government whose Prime Minister is Alexander Vukic, whose baseline is too much responsibility. In the end, there's one more thing I'd like to say, this law that you've proposed today is actually a legal framework against those who cheat, who cheat in a specific case in sport. The aim of the SNS besides the fight against crime and corruption is to fight constantly and continuously against all those who cheat in any segment of social life. That is certainly one of the reasons why the SNS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10280	Thank you. The People's MP Goran Vukadinovic has the word, and let the MP Dragan Nikolic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10281	The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, respected ministers, dear fellow MPs, is now on the agenda of the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, which is a means of achieving a goal called not to topple results at all costs. The problem of using doping means should be considered in two directions. First, register the use of doping funds in non-professional sport, for easily understood reasons. In this category, athletes are convincingly more people than they are in professional sports. You'll agree with me, that the doping control of unprofessional athletes had little or almost none. As an explanation, it is firstly offered that it is unclear why these athletes would use doping when their results and achievements have no basis for results and success. I would warn that in unprofessional sport it is of great importance to prevent, which first implies as much and better information as possible about the types and harmfulness of doping. That's why we need high-profile experts, including trainers, psychologists and doctors. Using doping funds is a subject that has been a public law for decades, because the harmful consequences of using doping in sports, and especially in professionally unmistakable. I ask the question – what happens to unprofessional athletes? What about people who are recreationally involved in sports, with all those who don't participate in competitions? Whether we can leave the decision to use unauthorized funds to them alone or you will agree with me that it is a dangerous means and that we are obliged to, in an organized and systematic manner, through professional people and institutions of each group of athletes, make it clear that the use of doping can lead to physical, but also mental disorders. No sports title, not even that international rank, should have any top-notch results ahead of health. From you, Mr. Minister, I expect support for my efforts, that by personal example, as well as the address of our top athletes, sports idols of younger generations, enhance the effect of proper information. As a top athlete, with the experience of a manager who ran the most successful club in southern Serbia, the basketball club "Health", I have the freedom to recommend how so-called. learning by model gives a better result than others. The experience of great aces, unscathed sports careers means much younger ages, and you are familiar with the warnings of scientific teams that say that the most sensitive period in children is 10-15 years of age, that during that period we must protect them in a valid way so as not to become users of banned substances. I believe that in a close relationship with the Ministry of Youth and Sports, there must be formal education, i.e. and the Ministry of Education, i.e. that the antidoping content should be included in the teaching plan and the programme, and that the promoters of the health and safety of the schoolboys would be, besides sports professors, psychologists and educators. Co-operation with the educational authorities is of great importance to me in order to better promote teacher education programmes and prepare school materials. If such a project does not involve a large number of schools and we do not approach it at different levels of teaching, I fear that the problem of using doping in non-professional sport will not be solved effectively enough. Today we are talking more about problems in unprofessional sport, first because professional athletes are subject to doping control, not because it is a less important group of young people who use illicit funds. The World Anti-doping Agency and the Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia offer great opportunities for quality information on all doping problems, especially in professional sport and control methods. At a time when winnings bring great material benefits, including astronomical profits, but many immaterial benefits and privileges are obtained, there are plenty of those who would easily conclude that it is necessary to use unauthorized funds for the sake of victory and for the sake of good reason, and that the career of a top athlete is short and that time, value and popularity should be cashed in as quickly as possible. I see here the need for the state to work through competent institutions to fully inform athletes, in order to indicate that there is a fraud in sports and one that is not revealed at that time. I believe that learning about fair play is not exceeded, that it is necessary for athletes like, say, honesty in business. I won't accept a belief that you'd admit that fair play is a presumption and a condition of play and victory. I ask you – can we allow this basic characteristic of the sport ideal to collapse using illicit funds? The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, the fight against drugs has been going on for decades, and it is good that it is being spoken of more and more at the highest forums. Part of my thinking would like to try to present you and your associates as an increased commitment for the next period and first educational work. I'll be brief and I'll give as many people and information as possible about substances and methods that are forbidden in sport. Two - informing about healthy ways to improve physical abilities. Thus, by means of a healthy diet plan, it reaches the goals set, avoiding the danger of using illicit and stimulating means. Third – talk on the topic of creating an individual training plan. This means good information about the current process, training methods and how to draw up a plan, training depending on sports and desired goals. You will agree that the topic is such that it deserves daily consideration, agreement and action. With gratitude for listening to me, I would like to draw as close as possible to the standards of prevention and the fight against the use of doping. That's why, as the former high-end athlete on Voting Day, I will fully support the passing of such a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10282	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic, and let Ljiljana Malusic be prepared. Dragan Nikolic is not here. Mrs. Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10283	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction to see such a young man as a minister and to tell these children to operate exactly in his way, and what that means is a healthy lifestyle, without doping, learning and dedication. Thank you. I know you've done a fantastic strategy for young people, which means getting the kids off the street and focusing on the real goals. Thank you. Today we're going to talk about a bill to prevent doping in sports. This law regulates measures and activities to prevent doping in sport, it prohibits doping in sport. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97 paragraph 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed to regulate the Republic of Serbia, provides a system of sports. In 2005, the U.S. The Republic of Serbia passed the Law against Doping in Sports, and ratified it in 2009 for the great pleasure of all of us. What does that mean? That RS is among the top, close to the top as to the quality and results of our athletes precisely because we have a prevention of doping in sport. In 2009, this agreement was ratified and based on the European Convention. However, since 1 January 2015 we have received a new set of laws and rules. Whoever accepts those laws will be able to send teams to international competitions. That's why our country hastily passed a law like this. Whoever doesn't do it and adopts, of course, that they'll be denied the ultimate results. As for the supervisory authority, in the RS, as well as in the world, it is done by the Antidoping Agency, which is in charge of many things. First of all, to ban doping, then to control doping, it serves as an education body for both doctors and authorised staff. Currently in our country there are 36 authorised people who control doping, whether doping is done in RS or not. Unfortunately, we're not immune to that. From 2006 to 2013, athletes from 4.337 found 48 people, or athletes, in doping. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. It's not a great percentage, but it needs to be solved. I'm sure by passing this law, we'll deny the possibility of doping because doping directly leads children to death. The most important thing to say is that our Anti-doping agency is constantly interacting with the MUP, as well as with the prosecution, and that's why we have extraordinary results. We're at the very top of the sportsman's anti-doping program. The anti-doping program serves, among other things, to educate not only doctors, but also sports clubs, organizations and associations. Thus, it is often put on the site a complete program of what should be done, how to do and what to manage so that it does not happen that our top athletes come to be doped. Unfortunately, it's not just about doping people. That kind of abuse, it's a man's work, it's done in horse sports. In America, it's even about dogs. Of the Exzemplare, which was 275 horses, 20 innocent animals were in doping. What's to be done to prevent this? Download a complete set of these laws and be rigorous. I hope that our country will adopt very quickly... We have few amendments, I hope, that both the position and the opposition have a great relationship with this law and we want it to no longer be doping in Serbia. Unfortunately, I have data that doping was also in cycling, handball, basketball. It's individual, controversial cases, and I'm sure it won't happen again. The highest percentage of banned substances used in RS are anabolic agents, stereoids, 18% cannabinoids, 15% diuretics, 13% stimulant, 2% beta blockers, 2% beta agonis. Unfortunately, it all leads to death. I ask this youth to take it seriously, and if they can take this law off the site, they can simply be directed to what anabolics can bring that inflate them and make them beautiful. Unfortunately, it's a short century. What I'd like to point out is that the most doping positives were in wrestling sports, boxing, bodybuilding, bodyfits, handballs and so forth. However, I underline that we are a small-risk country regarding doping, so I'm sure by introducing this law, doping will bring us down to a minimum. What else do you say? My colleagues said a lot. Maybe from country to country are different punishments for which I always am. The point is not to punish people, especially young people, but to educate them and work on it all the time. The fact is, it's a completely different punishment in Italy, France and the United States. I hope we don't have that problem in a couple of years and bring in big medals, not doping. Doping can be established through blood, urine, even, I hear, can be detected through hair. Who knows what they'll come up with, but the point of the whole story is that it's not the point of winning, it's the point of participating, and it's not the point of money, it's knighthood and dignity. Thank you. I'm sure, and my party will certainly vote and support this bill, and I think all MPs in this assembly will. Thank you very much for your understanding and your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10284	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, and let Professor Vladimir Pavicevic register.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers and fellow MPs, this bill has been largely created as a result of the RS' obligation to install in its legislation provisions of the International Convention against Doping in Sports, which Serbia ratified in 2009. Serbia thus committed itself to the uniform application of the basic provisions of the World Anti-doping Code. In 2009, he suffered significant changes and a new set of amendments to the Code will enter into force as of 1 January 2015. The provisions of the World Anti-doping Code provide that a number of provisions must be taken literally and accepted by all participants in the sport system. Otherwise, athletes from countries who have failed to comply with their anti-doping rules with those provisions will be denied participation in major international sports competitions. Those provisions determine what is considered to be an infringement of the anti-doping rules and sanctions system for breach of those rules. The World Anti-doping Agency is overseeing the respect of the world's single anti-doping policy, and gives national anti-doping organisations confirmation that their work is in line with the World Anti-doping Code. Our Anti-doping Agency has received such confirmation and is considered one of the best Anti-doping agencies in the world. In addition to aligning its legislation with the Convention and the Code, it was also necessary to remove the observed shortcomings in the application of the applicable 2005 law. I note that, in the light of this law, I also read that a good part of the members of the existing law is as good, as a valid retainer. In the fight against doping in sports in the Republic of Serbia, according to law, national sports alliances also play a significant role. Thus, a whole series of obligations for national sports alliances, such as the determination of disciplinary measures, the pronunciation procedure, in cases of infringement of anti-doping rules, express disciplinary measures, adopt an anti-doping programme, report competitions to the Agency, submits the calendar of the competition to the Agency, delivers training plans and prepares top athletes, etc. In practice, however, significant problems have been identified in respect of these obligations by national sports alliances. Somehow, these problems in disregard of the provisions of the law by the national sports alliances are most visible. In an analysis given, it was said that during the past period of over 100 national sports alliances in the Republic of Serbia only slightly more than half of them 56 have made most of the obligations under the current law. These 56 adopted general anti-doping acts, established measures and procedures in cases of established doping of athletes, adopted an anti-doping programme, and identified a responsible person to monitor the implementation of measures to prevent doping. There is no information on the implementation of the obligation of national sports associations, and it is about ensuring the continued individual medical monitoring of top athletes. National associations of athletes did not bring in the necessary acts and take concrete measures to control the anti-doping programmes of their members. As the legislator of this law has said, I quote - the situation is unsustainable and requires the potential for the role and responsibilities of national sports associations, as well as other sports organisations, in relation to the fight against doping. According to the Convention, it is clear that public authorities and organisations are in charge of sport, have complementary responsibility in preventing the fight against doping in sport. In view of the fact that national sports alliances use public income funds, Article 10(2) provides for the possibility that national sports alliances which do not comply with the obligations laid down in Article 1 of this Article cannot obtain funding from public revenues. Given that most of the objections mainly relate to national sports alliances and their avoidance of obligations prescribed by this law, I ask you, Mr. Minister, can this measure, or the depriving of funds, contribute to their urgency, to greater efficiency, I mean sports alliances? The second question, will the funds be deprived if they do not apply all the provisions of this article? Therefore, paragraph 2 provides the possibility that sports alliances which do not comply with the provisions of Article 1 should be prevented from obtaining funds from public revenue. I am interested in what will happen to those alliances that selectively apply, or selectively adhere to that Article 10, or Article 10? Are the provisions of this article, I mean, in Section 2, maybe just a warning for all those who do not comply with these obligations? What is the guarantee that the relationship of all alliances under the law will change? I think it is necessary for the competent sports alliances, together with the competent ministry, to publicly promote young generations of athletes, the importance of sports ethics, fair-playing, the health of athletes, and the harmfulness of the use of doping funds, both in their health and in their sports careers, and we as a parliamentary group have foreseen an additional 18th point, which is just making it mandatory for the sports alliances to promote this. It's obvious that the most objections are to Article 10. Thus, point 2 of the same article foresees that national sports alliances are obliged to provide within the competences of the Alliance for athletes, sports experts and other persons for whom the responsibility for doping has been determined to be given appropriate measures. However, in the same Article in paragraph 6, it is said that in the event that the National Sports Union does not impose the measures laid down in Article 1(2) of this Article within four months of filing an application for an infringement of the anti-doping rules, the responsibility of the person who has committed an infringement of the anti-doping rules shall be determined by the Anti-doping Agency. Is the Antidoping Agency in this case a backup player? I apologize for the formulation. If this happens, the Alliance does not carry out its obligation, does not impose a measure within four months, the Agency does not take on itself that obligation, what will happen to the irresponsible National Sports Union, what are the sanctions? I have carefully looked at the criminal provisions of this law, and none of them apply to this particular question, so I'd like to ask you an answer. Mr. Minister, can you explain to me, in my opinion, it's one illogicality, but it's possible I'm wrong. In this regard, Article 31(1) states that the Antidoping Agency is independent in its work, and then in the next article, Article 32. It imposes an obligation on the Agency to notify the Ministry of Sports Affairs, in any case, of the planned implementation of doping controls at least three days before its maintenance. Of course, my parliamentary group has also submitted an amendment to this article. In the end, there's only one clue left. Why is the formulation in control of the application by the Ministry of Sport Affairs, if the World Anti-doping Agency, or the National Anti-doping Agency, is conducted with respect for the world's unique anti-doping policy? I wonder if you might be familiar with this and what practice is there in other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10286	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10287	Thank you. I'll try to bring you up to speed and try to answer some questions. He cannot selectively respect or disobey the rules that are laid down, i.e. prescribed by this law. One cannot use, or apply, the other to non-application, because if the border union does not respect any of the provisions of this article it will be sanctioned by not having the possibility to have funds from public revenues. No matter what thing he doesn't commit, it's one of the sanctions. We've introduced sports inspectors, strengthened the need for sports inspectors, I'm going to try to cover two questions with one answer, which is that the sports inspector is competent to enforce this law, because the responsibility of the alliances themselves has been strengthened. As I said in the opening statement, the alliances are considered equal partners and the alliance will first see some irregularities and inform not only the Antidoping Agency national but also the competent ministry. Just because it has turned out, as some MPs have spoken, that the rules have not been respected, and that is why we have stepped up inspection surveillance, and therefore we want to get more concrete into the correcting of the Union's work irregularities, primarily because we want to focus extremely responsibly on adjudicating this negative phenomenon in the sport sphere itself. The Anti-doping Agency is obliged to notify the competent ministry, although it is independent in its work, but only as information, only as a notice and it is three days. This notice does not stand at all for which athlete will be tested and where it will be done, but is merely stated - in the next period, a number of controls are planned and will be carried out within five days, seven days, because under this law it is duty that three days before anti-doping control is notified by the competent ministry, which has no authority by the competent ministry, only gives consent to the notice, i.e. He accepts the notice. It's important to me to understand how important inspection control is. I sincerely hope that in some recent future period I will come before you with a proposal to amend and supplement the Sport Act. Currently, there are only three sports inspectors in the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and we believe that there are few sports inspectors compared to the number of clubs and the number of participants in sports, as well as the results our athletes achieve. Therefore, through this law we want to strengthen inspection supervision and we want to make it clear that we are and how responsible we are in every way, and also in eliminating these negative phenomena. The desire is for sports inspectors to do their job in the way that every citizen of this country expects and to inform about their work. You asked a specific question. We're trying to get the alliances on track. We're trying to work with alliances. We do not want to eliminate that branch of sport through the irresponsibility of individuals and alliances. It's a clear law, now the current Sport Act, where you directly determine this norm, but our wish is primarily preventative to perform, and to a large extent to sanction. That's why we need more sports inspectors and a clear responsibility for what they're doing, just to be absolutely informed of everything that's happening on the ground. Thank you for your suggestions. We'll look at some things through the amendments and we'll talk about them in the next period, because maybe it's not a bad suggestion for the alliance to be the one to inform. It's the Antidoping Agency's work for now, but we'll discuss it on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10288	I thank Minister Widow. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Udovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, we in the New Party believe that you have referred to the National Assembly, in principle, a good bill on the prevention of doping in sport. Still, I have three observations, Mr. Minister. Three questions will arise from these observations. I think it would be very important for you to answer all these three questions to convince us by the end of this debate and until the day that we will vote on this proposal that this is indeed a very good proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport. Now, let's start with these number one observations, and then, of course, questions. Here in the Bill of Law you wrote fine – it is forbidden to do drugs in sport, and then you say – doping in sport is the existence of one or more infringements of anti-doping rules established by Article 3 of this Act and then in Article 3 we have one list of those rules. Now, I thought for example. that it would be very good for us to agree here and about what doping is in principle saying. Of course, infringement of the antidoping rules, but I did some research, read a little literature to prepare myself for this, and I came up with the next - doping use of chemically synthesized stimulants to achieve better results in sport independent of preparation and training. In addition, for doping, I think it is very important to know that it endangers the health of competitors, or athletes, and we could perform the thesis of endangering or threatening public health. But the basic idea that makes me think it's important to adopt a law like this is to fight a fair fight in sports. In other words, I think we're talking about one term that is very important in this National Assembly, which is congratulation. I'm glad we have a minister here who proposes from the work of his jurisdiction a law based on honesty, a fair fight in sports. What's unclear to me? It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that from the government of Serbia, whose member you are, conflicting messages are coming in about this principle and this term. Here, for example, I've concluded, since I'm the proposing of a draft law supplementing the Higher Education Act, that in higher education here, you don't want honesty, and in sports, I think, you rightly advocate that congratulations must be done. Your colleague Minister Verbic, and I ask you to ask him if you haven't asked him yet, and if you are to answer me today, he has my understanding of doping for PhDs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10290	Something about the system is wrong. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10291	Well, since the system was blocked at one point, as Mr. Chairman says, let me remind Mr. Secretary. So, my observation was that academic congratulation we don't need here, and sports congratulations need... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I ask you, Mr. Minister, if you can explain to us if there really is confusion in the Serbian government? [[Disabled microphone.]] That was the first question. The second question... )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10292	Mr. Pavicevic, sign up so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if I'm the exception to the rule that the system works when all other MPs speak, only when I get the right to say my comment on the bill to prevent doping in sport and just when I start talking about honesty... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10294	I don't really know, Mr. Pavicevich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10295	This is really amazing. Is it a time to start over when it blocks the system or how?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10296	We're following how you're wasting your time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10297	Okay. Dear Minister, I hope the first question is clear. Is it working? It's okay. Let's go to another question about the bill on drug prevention in sport. For example, at the beginning, I said that I had read a little bit about sanctioning doping in sports, so let's get started and all of us who aren't professionally related to the area. I came to the next observation, that is another observation, as it says – the repressive character of disciplinary sanctions, Mr. Udovic, applied to athletes who used doping funds in the past two and a half decades in Europe did not significantly affect the reduction of doping in sport. So, disciplinary sanctions, despite their existence and existence, did not have a major impact on reducing the use of doping in sport. I have another question for you, and it's very important for me to hear the answer. Is it necessary, dear Minister, to punish a sportsman who uses doping funds? I've been particularly attached to this by reading this bill, because it seems to me that there are points of the law, or members that allow, I think, and a little change. For example, when we come to criminal crimes, this is the chapter of the criminal provision, Article 38 says – who athletes in order to doping in sport to either prescribe or issue or apply a doping agent to athletes, etc., will be punished by a prison of six months to five years. Then, if we move on to Article 41, the Honorable Minister, it writes the following – with fines, not prisons, from 50,000 to 150,000 dinars, will be punished for a violation of a natural person who, for example, is under point 1, a sportsman who uses doping funds. What was my dilemma now? If it is true that the repressive character of disciplinary sanctions in the past two and a half decades in Europe was not enough, then why might this bill not have gone one step further? Plus, I have an additional argument for this question, that it might have been different to solve -- who's going to decide on the criminal prosecution of the one who leads the athlete to the use of those funds, and who's going to decide if it's not the criminal part of the person who lists the athlete, but the athlete himself decided? In other words, what's going to happen, Mr. Minister, if we have a situation where a sportsman who's here is protected, who, for example, decided to use those funds, comes and says, "Hey, I didn't do it myself, he led me to this one and this one. I think it's a kind of inaccuracy that could be solved by perhaps asking – what do you think, introducing criminal punishment, athletes who use these funds. That, Mr. Minister, any other question. Here, if Mr. Chairman Becic allows, since the system is a little bit, so it stops working, I have one more question, is it okay, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10298	Only if it's in the spirit of this proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10299	Of course, I'm always talking about what's the agenda point. The third question, I've noticed respected ministers of some illogicality again about some members of this bill, so it might be good until the voting day to see if these illogicalities are real, or if I've made a mistake. I may have made a mistake. For example, Article 9 speaks of it, and here were the words, but I was not satisfied with your answer. It is said that the Anti-doping Agency determines the organisation to conduct a doping analysis of athletes' samples, i.e. animals participating in competitions. We have an attitude of 2nd slightly more extensively, and attitude 3rd says – the selection of the organisation in Article 1, which I have read, is done in accordance with the law governing public procurement. On page 8, however, article 21 says – The Anti-doping Agency performs sporting activities in order to prevent doping in sport, so at point 3, it stands – to ensure the necessary equipment for the analysis of doping samples and the necessary means to doping control. I've already heard that there were words about it, for example Mr. Bozovic mentioned it and you answered it, but I'm not satisfied with that answer, because we have an obligation to according to the Public Procurement Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10300	Mr. Pavicevic, it's been five minutes past all these interruptions and now it's been five minutes, so I don't have a chance to give you my word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I have another sentence? All right, that's why I told you to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10301	Thank you for the opportunity to finish my speech in one sentence, I'm just interested if we don't have such organisations that can meet the conditions of the public procurement competition why in some other way we don't solve this issue, because it won't be, as I understand Mr. Minister just now during the debate, no organisation that will meet these conditions and then we have to go to Article 21. Then let's get this thing legal so there are no exceptions or privileges on any basis. That's three questions, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10302	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10303	Mr. Chairman, article 106 has been injured. I understand that there is a very interesting link between you and Mr Pavicevic, but you have broken several items in the Rules of Procedure, you have not been paying attention in time, whether there are some MPs and MPs' groups of first and second rank, so you interrupt SNS MPs after two or three seconds of time. You had to keep an eye on the previous speaker here. I have no objection to anyone speaking interestingly, but the Rules of Procedure must be respected and an item which is that independent MPs have five minutes of time. There was more talk here, and the previous speaker said more things from the domains of some other ministries than this point of the agenda, and you had to warn him about it. Whether you liked the speech or not, I don't know, you didn't do it. I don't mind saying congratulations in any segment of our society, but I think we should also start with political honesty. Only people who do not have political integrity can say that the parade organised by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a few days, after 29 years, because this state, this government of the Republic of Serbia, this Ministry of Defence has something to show in the framework of the dedicated industry, and these are not the Secretaries of the Republic of Serbia, but what we won on "Lazara 1" and "Lazara 2" and everything we did in the Great Plan and within the framework of the SDPR and other companies, we can boast all of those things that were done within the Ministry of Defence. Only those who do not have political integrity can one segment of our society, such as the Serbian Army, belittle them, say that these people should stay in the barracks, that these people cannot face the citizens and those citizens who sent them there, who pay them for whose sake the Serbian Army exists. Let's talk about political honesty. Let's start with this political honesty and the trivialization of such an event that's been organized in our society for 29 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10304	Thank you, Mr. Granny. According to the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Udovic, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I now wish to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I believe, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, that Mr. Babic had just injured this member of our Rules of Procedure without you telling him that he had done it. How did he do it? In two ways, first of all, by suggesting to you that you warn me that I wasn't talking about something that wasn't part of the agenda, and I think, on the basis of this one, that I should say non-verbal communication with the people of the Ministry of Defense, here is Minister Udovic, that he is now ready to answer all of my three questions that I've asked here. That means, gentlemen, that I am here today in my five minutes as far as I have for each agenda point, speaking exactly on the agenda. I'm interested in, right now, whether Mr. Widowic will answer all the three questions I've asked. The second thing, on the basis of which I believe, dear Mr. Becic, that Mr. Babic had just violated Article 103 is the insistence on it, and I understood that because he had spoken to me, because I had spoken before him, that there were people's MPs, and I understood that he was talking to me, who had no political integrity. Dear Mr. Becic, it is now not only a violation of article 103 but also a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that speaks of the violation of the dignity of every MP and of the National Assembly as a whole. Mr Babic, I think, indirectly sent a message that as one of the MPs here, I have no political integrity and I am prepared, dear Mr Becic, beyond this dialogue, in the context of the controversy of the Rules of Procedure, with Mr Babic always to discuss why he claimed that I am not showing political integrity here. I think it's just the opposite. If anyone here insists on congratulations, it's me and me from the New Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10306	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I can't give any other explanation except that I can't know who it is right now if someone's name isn't mentioned, whether the speaker means one or the other of the 250 MPs. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. I thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10307	Article 108 has been injured, Mr. Chairman. Because my colleague Pavicevic doesn't know the Rules of Procedure I can and understand, he's a young MP, he'll learn. But the fact that you don't know the Rules of Procedure, it's already problematic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be done by a single MP, therefore, I could not do any harm to the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the President or by the chairman of the National Assembly. You had to warn Mr Pavicevic during his inspired speech. Usually someone who may not have been directly called, when he feels that something is referred to him, picks up himself. I saw that happen earlier with Mr. Pavicevic. Not the only ones, there are those who care about pensions and salaries in the state administration and those who paid these salaries and those pensions in governments by 2012 and spent and played. It's just the ones who are the most responsible that we all have to tighten the belt right now. Right now, they have appeared, and these are the measures that disturb the government of the Republic of Serbia for which these measures are being introduced. Political honesty is something we could talk about and something that was said in this National Assembly. The second and only member of the New Party here resented why Garda was in the House of the National Assembly. Why is there an anthem singing? Why is the flag of the Serbian state? Is such a thing congratulating, and we talked about it on the first day of the regular autumn session? Can we talk about honesty when someone bothers to organize a military parade...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10308	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10309	... Thank you, sir, for these 18 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10310	Mr. Babic, I'm still going to have to give a longer explanation when it comes to hurting my Rules of Procedure. I didn't say for a moment that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. I only gave an explanation to Mr Pavicevic that I cannot know when the speaker does not mention the name of which MP is spoken. So I didn't say for a moment that you hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm taking a break for three minutes. [[after breaks]] Since there are no more registered speakers on the lists, I would like to ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96, would like to hear it. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10312	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transfer of the assembly session. Before I finish what I was about to say in a few words today, I would like to thank you for your reply, Mr. Minister, and I hope that in some reasonable time you will provide us with the documents you promised. I hope that you will closely monitor the application of this law, because as we all agreed in the current debate this law has the role to cultivate fair play, to protect the health of our athletes, and only after all the opportunities and obligations that the law imposes on sports alliances to act repressive, criminal, which all of them, especially the Ministry of Sports, should try to prevent their work from reaching these final provisions of this law. until the punishment of athletes and the sports alliance. What is very important is that this law based on the experiences of the previous law that was in force from 2005 until these days, until these changes had a failure, it was that it had an obligation for sports associations and associations of sports associations in Serbia to have an obligation to educate and inform athletes about illicit assets, i.e. about these doping means that can be obtained and applied and thereby disrupt, firstly, the code of sports conduct, secondly disrupt your own health. What this law did not include, and a few colleagues noticed it, is part of what we call "school sport", and it is one of the disadvantages that the ministry should fill, because if we go to the education of all athletes what can and cannot be used, what is harmful to their health if the agency issues stickers that say that doping is a free product that is in use and used by athletes. We have a problem with all the youngsters who will be active athletes, because this applies to semi-professional and professional clubs. We have a problem with school sports, and some of our colleagues have suggested and talked about the need for school psychologists to do this, that they should be doing physical education professors, but have missed one very important segment of communication with young generations dealing with sports, which are specialists in sports medicine, these are people who belong to basic health care under the Law on Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia and who have a job to take care of the health of athletes who know the problem and who are present in the Republic of Serbia. The basic problem with sports medicine specialists, which would be your ministry in co-operation with the Medical Chamber of Serbia and with people who from that branch of medicine, i.e. Sports medicine specialists should have solved dynamics, ways of education, lectures and everything that belongs to the profession, and it also benefits young people from notifying what is harmful to the use of these stimulants in sport, is that, in due course, we in the Republic of Serbia will in basic health, lose sports medicine specialists for a simple reason that in previous contracts with the Republic Health Insurance Fund, back in the past several years are not recognised sports injuries in children and systematic examinations of sports medicine doctors from within their area, and is being transferred to pediatric services so that you are not now burdened. By the way, there are no invoices heading towards the fund, i.e. those accounts provided by the Institutes of Public Health at the Specialisation Award do not recognise the existence of a doctor of sports medicine, and in the most recent time we will lose this basic link in the Republic of Serbia that needs to worry about the health of children involved in school sports, which are specialists in medical work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10313	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10314	I've only got three minutes left, so I'll be done. Thank you. What you Mr. Ministers could do with your authority is, in communication with the Ministry of Health, to recognize the role of sports medicine doctors in order to recognize them first by recognising their services to the fund, and based on these services and these invoices to be recognized by public health institutes and to assign specializations of sports medicine and future ones. Otherwise, without my generation and few people younger than me, we will be left without sports medicine, which is very important, I say especially in the context of the functioning of this law and the issues dealing with this law, because there will be no one to educate young athletes who are recruited in school sports, in school sports organisations. I hope you think about this. There are your associates who have followed me closely. I hope it makes sense that what you heard from me as an opposition MP and that by hiring that part, that is. A specialist in sports medicine, within this antidoping law to round up the whole story and cover all athletes who from the earliest start of their sports activities to the professional league, will be covered. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10315	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The Prime Minister, Mr. Vanja Udovicic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10316	To answer only Mr Pavicevic's questions. There are various definitions in the world literature that you have stated...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10317	I ask the MPs to listen to Mr. Secretary. I told the MPs I didn't list anyone. Please proceed, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10318	As I said in the world literature, there are various definitions of the subject that you have delegated, but only one definition has been recognised by the World Anti-doping Code, which has been put into law itself and as such it is necessary to be accepted, here by your MPs. We can't change it because at the overall international level it's accepted as a unit definition in the area of doping prevention in sport. On your second question, you don't punish a criminal athlete. The crime has just been dropped, because it was not possible to prove its purpose, and the athlete is being punished strictly for breaking the rules rather than criminally. So, it's strictly punishable for those things that concern him, and it can't be punished anymore. Thirdly, let me explain to you about the public procurement for the laboratory and the equipment used during doping control. I'll try to explain it plastically. When a sportsman is chosen to undergo antidoping control, he can choose what is called the so-called antidoping control. whales. It's from a styrofoam box containing two glass bottles. You choose from multiple boxes, select one box yourself, open the box yourself, open two vials, give your sample, close the vial, you check that the vial is closed in several ways to make sure that no one can reach or open, because each opening would break the glass vial. You're closing that styrofoam still so closed it's distributed to the lab. Public procurement is being conducted for the equipment itself because, as I said, I'm going to try to explain it again. There are only two institutions that produce this equipment in the world and, of course, subject to the Public Procurement Act. As far as the lab itself is concerned, it is also subject to the Public Procurement Act, because it is a service given to the Antidoping Agency. We don't have a lab like that. Vienna has been chosen, because it can test both urine and blood, although in the area, everyone test only urine, without blood. Of course there's a public procurement in the selection of the lab itself. I believe the Antidoping Agency is conducting everything in accordance with the law. I think I've answered all three questions. I'm sorry. Let me answer your question, too. I hope that in the near future we will discuss the subject of the amendment and addition of the Sport Act, where we will frame the doctors of sports medicine in many ways. Of course we're not first invited to talk on the subject. We can suggest, we can participate in education. We also consider sports medicine doctors equal partners, because this is about one topic where all the subjects need help, all of us, because this is about our children's health. We believe that if we behave irresponsiblely, we cannot expect to have a healthy nation and that any legal framework will be able to apply to anyone because we do not exist. This is why today, before you, the proposal for a law on the prevention of doping in sport, because it is extremely responsible we want to go all the way to all aspects to deal with the current topics. But the suggestion is absolutely acceptable. Of course we'll consult when that topic comes up on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10319	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Unfortunately, Mr. Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, you do not have the possibility to replicate the minister now, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10320	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10321	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of the Udovici, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, allow me now to explain how a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If, after my explanation, you, the Honorable Chairman, conclude that there is really no injured Rules of Procedure, then all right, I will accept, but if you are convinced that you have been injured, please give me two minutes to conduct a conversation here with the ministers who defend the draft laws sent by the Government to the Assembly. Here are two things to prove my claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Article 104. In Article 104, it says finely that when a discussion is conducted here between all of us MPs, but also the person who defends the draft laws sent by the Government, there is the possibility that someone may misread someone, not answer a question, and then has been provided for a while on the basis of Article 104 to clarify the situation. I don't think Mr. Udovicic has answered two of the three questions and I just want to clarify the matter so that we from the new party can be sure that we will vote for this bill that we have said in principle that it is good. The second thing, Honored Chairman, today you are in similar, identical circumstances, giving Mr. Jovan Markovic of the DS an additional two minutes to conduct a dialogue with the minister about something he didn't understand, and I don't see at all why you wouldn't be based on the same rule, based on the same principle, and you gave Mr. Markovic the opportunity today to conduct a dialogue with people who come from the government, to make things more clear to the citizens and to all of us. That's my explanation and explanation, so please give me two minutes to talk to Minister Widow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10323	Mr Pavicevic, I would be happy to give you the opportunity to talk to Mr. Minister, but I don't know if the Rules of Procedure allow me to do so, but let me explain what you asked Mr. Markovic. Markovic had his time, and I could have allowed him a little of that time, perhaps to go out to meet him, and from his time left to allow him to refer an additional question to Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10324	Here, let me ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10325	That's why he only had four minutes left, five minutes left, because he had the opportunity to take advantage of his time. You unfortunately don't have your time and I don't have the opportunity to give it to you right now, especially since it's my discretionary right. I didn't interpret anything in Mr. Minister's statement that he's kind of misread you or God forbid he's offended, and that's why I don't have the opportunity to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10326	He didn't answer two questions, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10327	I hope that if he isn't at some other time now, though I've seen the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10328	I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10329	The word is Mrs. Comic's way of doing business.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10330	Thank you. The reasoning violates Article 27, which obliges each chairman to lead the meetings of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. National MP Jovan Markovic could not have done the job when he had already used his right as an authorised representative to use twice the authorised representative. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that the president of a parliamentary group or an authorised representative of a parliamentary group has the right to share his address in two parts, one before the debate begins on the lists of registered speakers, and the other, if he remains, following a debate involving all other MPs. So either MP Jovan Markovic in the morning section was given the right to reply or you violated the Rules of Procedure. He can't do both. The right to replica is your discretionary right and it also states clearly in the Rules of Procedure. My intervention is not because MP Jovan Markovic or any other MP would have the right to use the time guaranteed to him by the Rules of Procedure, but to ask you to in the future, since I have no doubt that you know the Rules of Procedure perfectly, in order that one of the other MPs is deprived of any right, which is your right as chairman, to receive the replica or not, not to be cited as an example of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The replica can also be given in this part of the session. There is not a single member of the Rules of Procedure who would prevent, if you consider it good for the spirit of holding a session, a MP who seeks a reply in a conversation with the minister, a replica and gets it, but cannot, as an authorised representative, use his time as an authorised representative before the debate begins on the lists of registered speakers twice. I don't want you to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10331	You just said what I did. I, in the spirit of this debate and the importance of this debate, have made it possible for the People's MP, because I have seen that it is extremely important to him, and with the time that I have in some way been able to, not by denying other MPs in the debate, perhaps by you I have broken the Rules of Procedure, I have given the word to Mr Markovic. National MP Zoran Babic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10332	Article 107, Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to Mr. Widowic because he was extremely active today in the discussion with the MPs. The National Assembly also serves and exists to develop a civilized democratic debate, of course, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. However, you had to warn Mr. Becic, Mr. Pavicevic, who called for a violation of Article 104(1). I'll try to read Article 104. "If the MP, in his presentation at the National Assembly session, is offended about the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication." Where's the minister? Where's the member of the U104? Minister, to whom did Mr Pavicevic call himself? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Here he is. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10333	Mr. Pavicevic, please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10334	One Messenger of the people to another to the Messenger of the people. I don't make virtual members of the Rules of Procedure here. I don't mind and I support and welcome Mr. Udovic's activity and his participation in the controversy today. I think it's a reflection of the man who came safely to that law he proposed and passed to the government, but don't call on members of the Rules of Procedure who don't define such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10335	Mr. Granny, you're absolutely right. And you have witnessed to me, as have the other MPs, that I have already tried to explain to Mr Pavicevic several times 15 days ago and that this member in such a way as you interpret him, I interpret him, but it seems that Mr Pavicevic has taken it the right way. I gave up that need to continue to interpret it. I ask you to look again and read this article, where you will see the inability to, as you wanted to get the word, get in this debate, except that I was tolerated to get out of this case a little bit of a parliamentary group that had time that she could use. Mr. Pavicevic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Udovic, who has not answered all my questions, the respected guest from the ministry, I believe that he is now injured in article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stated: “The President of the National Assembly is taking care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. ” Dear Mr. Becic, Mrs. Comic explained to you very precisely that today we had the same situation here during this morning's debate, and now that I have reported to conduct a dialogue with Mr. Widowic about the bill that defends on behalf of the Government. You responded to Mrs. Komic, and now, you said that you have assessed on the basis of article 104 or on the basis of another member of the Rules of Procedure that it is very important for Mr. Markovic to explain something else to Mr. Udovic. Dear Mr. Becic, it is important to me now, as it was important to Mr. Markovic, to explain something else to Mr. Udovic, first of all, to explain to him why it is important for him to answer all three questions. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10337	Mr. Pavicevic, it's not worth telling you the third time. I could have gone out to meet Mr. Markovic because he still had the time. You don't have it. Just what Mrs. Komic was saying, I could do it on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and it is my discretionary right to interpret and use this right to give Mr. Markovic another two minutes because I have estimated that I will not deny other MPs, because he has time that I can take away from him, but because of you I would have to deny other MPs, because you have no more time to use. Mr. Jovan Markovic picked up the phone. Here you go. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10338	The Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Presidency...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10339	Since I cannot continue to lead this session, I cannot allow the MP to take advantage of the time he has received, as MPs continue to insist on what is very clear, I am giving a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session in accordance with the established agenda. The head of the DS Group asked me to make this break shorter. I'm out on a date. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10341	Thank you. You violated the Rules of Procedure by violating the provisions of Article 103 as you listened to the reasoning given by Parliamentarian Zoran Babic about the provisions of this Rules of Procedure during the session. Your duty was also on the basis of Article 103 to warn him that he is in violation of Rule 103, so that you are obliged to give him notice, however unpopular it is, because Article 116 clearly states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply to all participants in the sitting. I do not state this violation of the Rules of Procedure in order to extend the working time to the sitting, nor because I believe that you do not know the Rules of Procedure, but that because the Prime Minister has different rights and obligations, greater than the MPs, is a matter that no MP should be silent and therefore I believe that, in particular, none of the chairmans should be able to keep quiet the violation of Article 103, which obliges each chairman to warn the MP who I do not believe in this case does not know the Rules of Procedure, but cannot abuse him. Each participant of the session shall respect the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, so that each member of the Government has the same rights and obligations, except where the members of the Rules of Procedure are not explicitly different from the length of the exposure or from the right of the wording championship, but in any case that does not apply. I do not want the Assembly to declare itself, but I want it to remain in the stenogram that the MPs here deliberately place members of the Government in a completely unnecessary position that is not prescribed by the Rules of Procedure for members of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10342	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10343	Dear Minister, I am fully convinced that after today's debate you have this impression, or you will have the impression that the MPs of the opposition had a good intention, that today we have made a real step in this direction, that this law that we have agreed is very important for this society gets as much support as possible. I think it's a good introduction to other activities, both you and your associates and the Ministry. I really don't want this last impression that's been gained here to be kind of promoted as dominant, and I wouldn't want this performance of Mr. Bakic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, to be put in the first place and to lower this debate that we had today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10344	Time's up. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10345	I know that when I walk into this room, it's like I'm walking in with a red scarf or something, and I know who's going to the red scarf. The humiliation of dignity and the National Assembly and citizens and the Užica is that they had such water, what did they have until 2012 and what did they say about such a government? Since when is the humiliation of the National Assembly what you will say about the Rules of Procedure what you think and when it is wrong? Since when is the humiliation of the Assembly when the representatives of the SNS speak? Since when is humiliation if we talk about political correctness and what is said in this room, but also in the lobby outside. I know that when hate pulls away, when hate blinds, when it blinds that cry for the former regime and for all the benefits of the former regime, but when you fly over to personal hatred, when you fly over to hate your country, it's dangerous. It cannot be an excuse – he said it in the last sentence. What am I supposed to say in my last sentence so they don't warn me? Of course, the honesty and respect of this home and respect for today's topic will not make me do something like that, but you must remind the gentlemen who had done what they could and did by 2012, destroyed, ruined, spent, committed, privatised, kidnapped, and therefore gave the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a clear message in the 2012 and 2014 elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10346	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10347	Dear Chairman, I believe that the previous speaker has injured the Rules of Procedure in article 107 and that he has spoken very inappropriately of me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10348	Like you, Mr. Markovic. Explain why I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10349	The Rules of Procedure have just been injured by the qualifications that I have personal hatred, that I have both for my country and for the citizens of this country, made very serious accusations against me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10350	Unfortunately, I have no technical ability to give you my word. I'm setting a five-minute break until the system's working. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10352	Thank you. Article 107 and Article 104 have been injured. Mr. Jovan Markovic, an MP from my speaking party, never mentioned the last name of an esteemed colleague from across the street, and you gave him a word based on what right to replication. A certain Mr. Bakic, who is not Jovo Bakic, is mentioned, but some third and you gave Mr. Babic the right to speak. That's how you violated Article 104. Article 107, because you didn't warn him that it wasn't right, regardless of his personal anxiety, which I don't know where it came from, it's not right to point such difficult qualifications at opposition deputies. That's why you're forced to schedule or declare some five- and three-minute breaks, because you allow yourself or your neck is stiff on the left side, maybe it's some kind of physiological problem and you don't see what Mr. Babic is doing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10353	Mr. Stefanovic, I will not allow you to insult the dignity of the National Assembly. For the last 20 minutes, you've been doing it all the time, or you've been throwing yourself out of place, or you've been calling on the Rules of Procedure, and you've been trying to insult the dignity of the National Assembly, and that this debate that was quality, that this possibility where the minister allowed and answered all the questions and was available all along this debate, now you're trying at the end of this quality debate to challenge... I don't know what you want. Mr. Stefanovic, I did not give Mr. Babic a replica, but he responded after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He had the opportunity to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as you do. I don't think this leads to anything right now. I'm taking a five-minute break and I'm calling the heads of Parliament for a consult. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is Alexander Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10355	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course respected ministers, I am really pleased today that most of today's session has been truly constructive and discussed this law that is really important to the world of sports as well as athletes, that we have talked about what we have to do in the coming period, and I hope that in the future we will adopt many more laws, which will define this area in the best possible way and that, among other things, through your ministry, will improve the position of young people in our country, because this is our priority, so that we have a healthy nation, and then through sport, will achieve the best results. I'm sorry that we had a chance to see today, and I'm sorry that there wasn't a head of the parliamentary group here, the largest opposition group, when the chain packages were in, the ones that got cold, I'm really sorry that the cold lasts longer, we'll see that MP more and more here, because while he was healthy, he never came. But what's important, we've heard here the accusations of honesty from those who overqualified the Master's degree in the Master's Department, which is not fair when we talk about education and really, even though we've heard a lot of lies today from those who haven't done anything in the field of sports and from those who said why you've proposed this law after two years. The fact that we have heard these truths, I ask the question – why has not a similar law been proposed in the last 15 years that will define this area which is really important to us. I hope that in the future we will have quality discussions in the light of all the laws. Most of today was really constructive. I welcome you, Mr. Widow, for making arguments here today, for answering questions that were not in most cases supported by arguments, but by provoking and other things to which certain MPs are served, of course with a coffee shop and something that goes on tea, or depending on what medical condition certain MPs are in, but to you, please continue doing so. You have the support of parliament, you have the support of 136 MPs, the SNS and our coalitions, so over 150 - 160 MPs, just work and enjoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10356	Thank you. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word. You have two minutes and 10 seconds. - You're picking up from the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10357	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting as per Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I think you've done a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You took a break, you gave a five-minute break, you invited the heads of parliament to a meeting, you stayed in that place. During that time, the head of the SNS parliamentary group gave you lessons. I know it's not easy for you to have a session. It is not the first time that both you and the other presidents, the head of the parliamentary group, have shared lessons. So there was no deal. After... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10358	The system doesn't work today, I guess. I'm sorry, I don't have a chance to give you my word. The system doesn't work. A five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. We have to wait for the system to reset. We're going back to work. Do any of the other authorised representatives who haven't used their time want a word? No, I don't. Does the Government's authorised representative want a word? The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10360	Today, we have talked many times about the reasons for the adoption of this law and how important it is for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially for those younger, for young people, for children. We talked about the importance of education, we talked about preventing everything that negatively appears in sports, everything that can disrupt the very ethics of sports and everything that sport represents. I don't want to be long, I really want to thank everyone for the constructive proposals, for recognising the importance of this issue, and for supporting it. Thank you, and for making it possible for me, I'm here for the first time when I represent and you've made it very easy for me. I really think that with your suggestions, we can come up with a significant legal framework that will take care of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-13-0.u10361	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a principled search on the proposal for a law to prevent doping in sport. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, according to the established agenda. I thank the Members of the People. Once again, I apologize for the system. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
