ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9490	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to check their cards, whether they are registered in the system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Sulaiman the Ugljanite. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9491	Dear Presidency, dear fellow Members, I would like to ask, we had a meeting here in the Serbian Parliament with EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan File on May 5th this year. On our part were representatives of the parliamentary groups and the speaker of the assembly headed by our delegation. The European Enlargement Commissioner, speaking on the establishment of the rule of law, legal certainty and the rule of law, has given great importance to resolving minority issues as he expressed his admiration that Serbia has a large number of minorities. However, the European Commissioner stressed the need to form a serious programme to address the minority issue, in order to clearly define the programme's goal. The name of the holder of each part of the programme, in order to know who is carrying the programme, who is running the programme, the deadlines for the completion of the programme, the amount of funds foreseen for the resolution of the programme and the amount of money needed for the programme. I ask the president of the assembly who chaired the meeting - what has the Serbian Parliament done to date? Has she done or started working on the programme to resolve the Bosniak issue in the Republic of Serbia? As for the minority parliamentary group, SDA Sandzak and PDD groups, we are ready to make a full contribution to implementing the programme for the Bosniak minority and the Albanian minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9492	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9493	Thank you very much. I ask the question to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It refers to additional support for children and students from sensitive groups, directly and indirectly, which requires additional funding, and is not implemented in the way needed. With the beginning of the new school year he culminated in the problem of the existence and sustainability of personal assistants i.e. assistants hired as an escort to the children for personal assistance. Personal, personal assistant is a direct and additional support to children from sensitive groups who require additional funding such as the adaptation and procurement of textbooks, educational means, for example, Braje’s letter, the individual educational programme, the appointment of a teaching assistant. The system was functioning and it seemed to be building up, that it would be even better, and then on one more local self-government did not settle its obligations, so parents were forced to pay for personal assistants themselves. As parents say, asking for information from all levels has come to the knowledge that no one is responsible, that there is no law by which local self-government would define the means for this purpose. The fact is that children are given additional assistance in education, health and social protection due to social deprivation of development, disability, learning difficulties and other reasons. It is not the will of the individual, nor is it the will of the group, it is the strategic definition of Serbia. A Law on the founding of an education and education system was adopted in 2009 where Article 98 provides for, unlike earlier major changes, that each child can and must enter the first grade of elementary school with at least 6.5, with a maximum of 7.5 years of age or parents will suffer legal consequences. According to this law, the Regulation on additional educational health and social support to the child and student is also adopted, the “Official Messenger” No 63 since 2010. The three mentioned ministries are behind this Regulation and they participated in the work, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. In accordance with the Regulation, inter-ordinary committees have been established to assess the needs of children, these mentioned children, and most important members of the commission are appointed local self-government assembly unit on a joint proposal for municipal administrations in the fields of education, health and social protection. They were obliged and did so to appoint committee coordinators. It is a person who is employed in the municipality and who is a link between inter-response commissions and local self-governments as well as ministries and has an obligation to send work reports and other documentation of importance, even when problems are at stake. There are also strategic definitions both international and our republics. What is important and what I must point out is that it is necessary to understand that the process of assessing the child’s needs for parents and also for the child is very stressful. It is therefore necessary for professionals who lead this process to create an atmosphere of mutual trust between the institutions and trust in each other, trust in the ultimate goal, which is to provide the child with conditions for development, learning, and equal participation in the community system. Otherwise, this system is in place, and all of a sudden, we're having problems working. That is why I ask the questions of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy – do they regularly receive reports on the work of inter-responsible committees and are they familiar with the problems of providing additional support to children and students from sensitive groups and what will they do to remove the disturbances that have arisen? In view of the existing legal acts, what is needed to allow local self-government to comply with the obligations of supporting children and students from sensitive groups, so that the issue of personal and pedagogical assistants is resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9494	Thank you. The People's MP, Djordje Stojsic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9495	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the question of Minister Resorna, Mr. Velimir Ilic, Mrs. Mihajlovic and Mr. Marko Blagojevic, and regarding the situation in the Municipality of Šid, the specific place of Jamena, as the public knows well, is affected by the floods that have hit our country this year. The situation in the city is extremely critical and the citizens there feel forgotten and betrayed by the state. A series of problems they face and the possibility that someone in the same street gets funds to rebuild houses, and someone not, should not be happening to them, and also, people complain about the solutions they have received. They don't get answers for months. The aid that has come from various donors is distributed in very strange ways in the sense that they are divided by relatives or worse, by party arches. What's certainly the most critical, one part of the citizens who can't rebuild their houses, stay in tents, winter approaches, and I think that's something that the office that was founded on purpose to deal with these issues would have to look back on. There is a problem between the Republic and the province authorities, related to the recovery of the damages suffered in the city of Jamena, since, as far as I'm aware, the province cannot define the funds, if it were to spend the funds, for the restoration of houses in Jamena, it was said that this would be unintended spending of funds, or could be criminally responsible for such a thing. The people of Jamena certainly don't think that it's time to negotiate, negotiate, talk, republican and provinceal authorities over their backs, and I hope this isn't just another situation where, when we have a problem, we're going to set up an agency in Belgrade to hire a bunch of friends, friends, friends, scurvy, party friends, and this thing is going to end, and this problem has to be dealt with urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9496	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9497	My question is addressed to the President of the Republic, Mr Nikolic, the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic and Minister Gasic, Minister of Defence, as far as the military parade is concerned, announced for 16 October. The fact is that memories of our people's anti-fascist history are indisputable, however, the question is the way and the measures in which it is done. The Red Army also participated in the fight. My first question concerns the time of the military parade. Namely, fighting for Belgrade's release lasted from 14 October to 20 October and 16 October, and this building in which we are sitting was not free. The major struggles were fought for the 17th Republic Square and the Albanian Palace was freed 20, so the city centre, with strong opposition from the German occupier. So why October 16th, when a small part of Belgrade was released? The second question concerns how this military parade is prepared. I'm interested, asking the question, who gave the order for the military parade, did the President of the Republic do this as commander-in-chief of the armed forces or anyone else, and what document does he testify to, on that order? The second question, when preparations for this military parade are launched, is enough time given to the Serbian military for preparation, and I ask this, first of all, for the safety of the participants of the military parade, because this military parade is being held on a working day, it is Thursday, and most will likely come to that parade organised or disorganised, so I ask for the safety of the participants, whether the Serbian Army has had enough time to prepare for the military parade and whether their safety and safety of the participants will be compromised. The third question concerning this military parade concerns the financing of a military parade. I'm interested in how much it will cost to hold this military parade, how many dinars, whether funds are provided in the budget for this military parade, given that either those days and soldiers under the contract to participate in that parade will be reduced wages, will be reduced salaries to both professors and police officers and drivers and many others just those days. I ask the question, if this parade were to be more modest, perhaps pay those soldiers by contract, might they be less reduced compared to the reduction expected? I don't know if the budget provides for that position, but I do know that holding a parade costs a lot. Namely, the tank tank is a volume of 1200 plus 400, so 1600 liters. The tank that we have spent from 260 to 450 liters. The planes we use, the volume of their tank is 4365 liters, and those depending on the kind of flight, this tank can be spent in a few hours. It's serious money, it's serious money. I ask where these funds were provided and was it necessary for such funds to be provided? On the other hand, the state is in debt every day and the country in charge does not measure its strength by military parades, as European countries do not measure their strength by the number of parades held, but by the standard of citizens. By the number of parades both in the way and in the size of the parade, some other countries measure their strength, which have a very low standard of citizens and very endangered freedoms of citizens and a pretty bad reputation in the world. So I ask the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense to get answers to these questions by the start of this parade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9498	Before we proceed, do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to request an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? Mr Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9499	Dear colleagues, I am asking the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Prime Minister Mr. Vukic about the unloved events that took place in Belgrade on Sunday, as all Serbian citizens saw when an unwanted incident occurred, when Prime Minister Andrej Vukic's brother was brutally beaten. So my question to the police and the Prime Minister is this. How did this incident happen, who caused it, what exactly happened that the Assembly was informed and the committee responsible, to inform the Serbian Parliament and the MPs, if possible, within the deadline provided for, and in which way, to assign security to Mr. Andre Vukic and the brother of Mayor Mr. Malo, to inform the Assembly who made the decision that the Cobra military unit members in this situation were carrying out informal protection of the person, whether there was a decision, an order or a written document, and if there was, we would like to see it? We also believe that this, later on in the media, absolutely mass-provided unwanted situation has been given its epilogue in that either the interior minister should resign or should resign as we believe that the Prime Minister's personal security has been granted without adequate orders or a written lead to the protection of the prime minister's brother. So either the Home Secretary didn't do his job, so he let this happen, and we'd like to get answers to those questions, so that it doesn't end up being suspended by five members of the gendarme from the papers, because we think that here we need to establish both command responsibility and miss out on everyone who led to this situation. So we can't accept the constant media spin of this event without the facts that would explain this really unwanted situation. Serbia is exposed to a media avalanche that in an inadequate way represents an event that, I think, few know anything in this country. What we do know is that our fellow citizen was brutally beaten, that we don't know how and why it happened, that this incident started, whether they were really legitimate, whether Mr. Andrej Vukic was throwing a bottle at the gendarme or not, and who granted security to that man and on the basis of which authority and whether it was true that they tried forcefully to break through the cordon and whether it was true that they themselves used force and showed weapons. We want to hear it because we want Serbian citizens to know the truth, not because we hate someone, to say it immediately. Also, my next question concerns, again asking Mr. Mark Blagojevic and asking the Prime Minister to finally inform us how much funds were raised by calling 1003, after the catastrophic floods in May, exactly how much funds, where these funds are and for what they will be, i.e. For what purposes used? I'm also interested, so the question at the same addresses, how many houses have so far been collected in money built in floods of affected areas, like Obrenovac or Krupnje or elsewhere? If not, when exactly will those houses be built and why has no house been built so far? What I'm also interested in is an affair that has surfaced with the engagement of a lobbyist company in the UK. We saw that there were some misunderstandings. We'd like the government to answer our questions, so we'd like the Minister of Information to respond to us, to the Prime Minister, who is the person who concluded the agreement with the British lobbyist firm, and where is the clue to all this? At the end of the question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Information and Culture Mr. Tasovac, in what way and when will he correct a huge injustice that is a threat to public interest, a threat to informing citizens, and that is that, apparently, by the will of the prime minister, the "Impact of the Week" programme on TV B92 has been abolished?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9500	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. A representative of the SNS MP, Sonja Vlahovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9501	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens, I have a question for the Minister of Youth and Sports, for Mr Vanju Udovic. According to the 2011 Sport Act, Article 25 and 26 of Item 4 – all clubs and experts working in the field of sports and recreation must be authorised to work issued by the border competent national union. So, the Youth and Sports Ministry has entrusted this activity with border alliances that educate commissions that give permits to work on sports experts and sports clubs. For example, associations of recreation and fitness in Serbia issue two types of licences - licenses for clubs and organisations and licences for sports experts. At the level of the license fee, each alliance has its own price, the ministry of youth and sports gave consent. Sports experts are persons with adequate higher education in the field of sports, or physical culture, or are trained to perform certain professional activities in sport. Sports experts in sports are also classified according to sports professions, called professions. The Minister shall establish the nomenclature of sports professions and titles, typical tasks for the establishment of sports professions and conditions in relation to education, i.e. professional skills for knowledge acquisition. I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports, how does he feel about the amount of compensation of 100 euros and more for the issue of work licenses, for sports experts who usually only apply for three years? So it takes every three years to allow sports experts and sports experts to renew these permits. Do you even need to get paid by sports experts who have graduated from sports and higher education and have won the academic title of a graduated sports and physical education teacher or a high school for sports and acquired the title of qualified coach? Most of these sports experts are constantly working on their training, so they take various courses for certain sports programs and pay for these courses. The most common price is around 500 euros, after which they receive diplomas for these programmes, attend various seminars, scientific gatherings, meaning, after colleges and high schools and paid courses, they should pay for further licensing for the work of licences 100 more euros and more every third year. I suggest that they amend the laws on sports, reconsider heights, fees for licensing to sports experts, and do you need everyone to pay for it? In accordance with Article 30. The Law on Sports, Minister of Youth and Sports is closer to regulating the way and procedure of carrying out expert supervision and measures to address the perceived shortcomings and other issues of importance for the exercise of expert supervision in the field of sport. I therefore hope that the minister will propose a professional surveillance procedure on this issue and propose certain measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9502	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for a word before we continue to work, I am giving a five-minute break to the government's representatives, Minister Gasic, who is the government's authorised representative at this point and the government's representatives do not enter the hall. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Stefana Miladanovic, Dr. Diana Vukomanovic, Meso Omerovic, Riza Halimi and Shajip Kamberi. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 5 and 6 of the agenda, on the proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment, and on a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence. According to Article 90(1), MP of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in view of the joint principle and uniform search on the proposals for the laws of the 5th and 6th agenda, I have also called on the representatives of the motionist Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and Bratislava Gasic, Minister of Defence, to attend the meetings also: Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Bojana Todorovic, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Colonel Milan Konjikovic, representative of the International Military Co-operation Administration in the Ministry of Defence, Jasmina Rosic, Head of Department of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Assija Veljovic, independent adviser at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 5 and 6 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle and uniform search on: on the Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment and on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on Mutual Exchange and Protection of Secret Data in the area of defence. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the defence minister Mr. Bratislav Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9504	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, members of the government, by confirming international conventions and agreements in the area of the ban on the spread of conventional weapons, firearms and light weapons, as well as weapons of mass destruction, the Republic of Serbia has accepted and fully implement its international obligations on this plan, in particular in the area of respect for UN Security Council Resolution, OSCE recommendations and EU decisions. Export control is a preventive measure to ensure that exported goods are not used for illegal or undesirable activities in other countries and regions. The effective application of laws which prescribe export controls and the application of sanctions in the event of its infringement requires compliance with the rules of export prescribed by law, as well as the engagement of a wide range of national actors, including customs, police, intelligence and judicial services. The proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment is part of a set of laws in the area of export control, with the adoption of which the Republic of Serbia will fully bring its legislation into line with EU legislation. The first such law came into force in November 2013 and this is the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" number 95 since 2013. The issue of export control until then was regulated by one law, the Law on Foreign Trade in Arms, Military Equipment and Double-Foreign Goods, "The Official Messenger of Serbia-Montenegro" No. 705 and 805. It was brought in 2005 at the time of the former state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which has been significantly overcome. Given that in EU legislation, the area of double-use export control belongs to the part of the common trade policy, this area is defined by binding rules for Member States, including the most significant regulation 428 of 2009. The area of control of arms and military equipment exports belongs to the so-called second pillar of European legislation. Foreign policy, defence and security and its regulation are left to Member States, with binding guidelines and criteria to be applied in the national legislation of the Member States. This primarily refers to the criteria for issuing licences prescribed by the so-called common position of the EU. In the text of the Export and Import Law, arms and military equipment criteria for the common position have been introduced, so that its degree of effect will create conditions for them to be applied in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for that law is fully in line with the Treaty on the Trade of Weapons as the first document in this area adopted at UN level. The Treaty was signed by the Republic of Serbia in August 2013, and its ratification is under way. Decisions and standards provided for in that Treaty shall be fully incorporated into the text of the proposed law. Finally, nothing less important for the adoption of the Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment is the fact that its adoption and entry into force are the conditions for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to Vaserenska, an arrangement that represents a significant credible international control regime. In fact, the Republic of Serbia has submitted its application for membership in the regime in 2009, but has not been accepted so far. One of the most important conditions for reception was the adoption of new legislation in line with international standards in the area of export control. The bill creates normative assumptions for meeting the basic objective - establishing a stronger system of control and supervision in the areas of exports, imports, transport and transit of arms and military equipment, as well as providing brokerage services and technical assistance in relation to the goods, in order to achieve and protect the defence, security and foreign-political interests of the Republic of Serbia and no international credibility, as well as to ensure respect for its international obligations. The adoption of a new law will contribute to strengthening the protection mechanism in exports and imports of arms and military equipment, the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance, transport and transit, and limit the possibility of unauthorized end-users to access illegally exported goods, technologies and improve the internal security system of economic operators performing those tasks in the fields of arms and military equipment. The proposed law lays down that exports and imports of arms and military equipment, established by the National Control List of Weapons and Military Equipment, are to be carried out on the basis of a licence. The National Control List of Arms and Military Equipment adopts the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the ministry responsible for foreign trade affairs. The important National Control List of dual-purpose goods adopted by the government decision this July this year, published in the "Official Messenger" 76 of 2014 and is fully in line with the valid EU list of this product for 2014, adopted in April of this year. The most significant newspapers covered by the proposed law are the following – precise arrangements are made for the area of registration, i.e. the conditions and means for the acquisition of rights, legal persons and entrepreneurs for the performance of operations, exports and imports of arms and military equipment, the provision of brokerage services and technical assistance. The responsibility of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and Telecommunications for the management of the register of persons authorised to carry out export and import operations of arms and military equipment shall be established. It empowers the Ministry for the adoption of a sub-legislative act laying down the way in which the register is kept, as well as the forms required for registration in the register. The specific conditions to be met by the person applying for registration in the register, which are relevant for the protection of the security and other interests of the Republic of Serbia and introduces the special written consent of the applicant for registration in the register, in order to be subject to such verification. It is possible to extend the validity of the licence issued, until now it has been valid for one year from the date of issue, to the deadline until the end of the contract, and for a maximum period of up to three years. In this way, in practice, it is easier for economic operators to conclude long-term contracts for the export of arms and military equipment or to provide services abroad. The decision-making period shall be set at the request of the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and BIA for ten days from the date of receipt of the final consent of the authority participating in the procedure for issuing the licence. In this way, it was avoided the possibility that by fixing the deadlines for issuing the authorisation, the applicant would be required to contact the applicant with a claim for compensation and, on the other hand, it would allow the authorities in the decision-making process to carry out all the necessary checks unburdened by short deadlines. The obligations of exporters, importers, brokers and technical assistance providers shall be laid down to determine whether the subject matter of goods or services belongs to military weapons prior to the start of the export, import, supply of brokerage services and technical assistance. In accordance with the provisions of this law, special consent is provided for the export of technology, i.e. the issue of a license to start negotiations involving the export of technology. In practice, business operators agreed on a job that envisions the export of technology in the field of arms and military equipment production, for which they do not receive consent, and the termination of such contracts, claims for compensation for damages and other damages. The criteria for decision-making under the application for authorisation are also accurately defined, and the possibility of automatic refusal of authorisation requests is provided on the basis of the first four criteria, and based on the opinion of the foreign ministry, as well as in the legislative practice of EU Member States. The possibility of issuing licences per so-called so-called. a special, shortened procedure, in respect of goods belonging to the country's security or defence forces, and for the participation of the country's representatives in multinational operations, on international exercises or on the basis of obligations arising from the country's membership in international organisations or on the basis of international contracts. In the same way, a reduced procedure provides for the issue of licences for so-called ‘. non-commercial exports and imports of these goods, for example, for the purposes of participation in international fairs, exhibitions, as well as goods obtained by gift or inheritance. It is more precisely arranged when the permit ceases to apply, as well as when the licence is changed. Depending on the type of change, whether formal or material change is concerned, authorisation shall be issued under a new, implemented regular procedure or the authorisation shall only be changed by the decision of the competent ministry, without obtaining prior consent from the authority participating in the authorisation procedure. The case is regulated, often in practice, when the permit is issued in the so-called so-called ‘. the export restriction in terms of the ban on re-exporting of goods without prior consent of the country of origin or of the seller of goods, in respect of goods imported into the Republic of Serbia, or where the end-user of goods exported from the Republic of Serbia requests consent for its re-export or further sale. In such cases, a complete procedure prescribed by the Law on the issue of a licence is foreseen to be implemented for the purpose of obtaining consent. Finally, the new law allows the economic operator, on the majority side of ownership, to carry out export operations, i.e. imports of arms and military equipment. Namely, the applicable Foreign Investments Act "Official Journal of the SRJ" No. 3 of 2002 and number 5 of 2003, it is prescribed that a company owned by a majority party cannot carry out the production and transport of arms and military equipment. Such a provision is largely exceeded and restrictive in terms of attracting foreign investors to invest in this area, so its abolition has been proposed. The possibility of pronunciation, in addition to fines, and the punishment for giving certain safeguards, is foreseen, in accordance with the provisions of the new Law on Infringements, "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, number 65 from 2013. The text of the bill is divided into seven parts. The first part contains the introductory provisions. The second part contains provisions on conditions for exporting and importing arms and military equipment and providing brokerage services and technical assistance. The third part contains the permit provisions. The fourth part contains provisions on the transport and transit of arms and military equipment. Part five contains surveillance provisions. Part six contains criminal provisions. The seventh section contains transitional and final provisions. Serbia's dedicated industry has significant potential for development. Serbia is the largest exporter of arms and military equipment in the Southeast European region. This is so much more important when it comes to the capacity of the factory so-called. the dedicated industry almost completely destroyed during NATO bombings in 1999. Relationships were restored with traditional partners, primarily Iraq, U.S. export forces, which were recently in the country. In this respect, more investment in the capacity of the dedicated industry is needed, particularly in order to respect the commitments and agreed delivery deadlines, to increase the level of realization of the concluded transactions. The current level of realization ranges from 25 to 30% of the contracted transactions. The importance of the dedicated industry is so much greater that this industry is achieving a surplus in foreign trade with abroad. Since the export revenues, it is possible to modernise Serbia's military forces and invest in revitalising the existing capacities of the dedicated industry and finally channel bigger funds in the research and development of weapons and military equipment. Since 2005, the number of total export licences issued has been monitored and analysed, i.e. imports of controlled goods into the foreign trade ministry. If we look at statisticalally, the number of export and import licences issued has increased steadily, as well as their values. Exports of arms and military equipment: 274 permits worth about $76 million were issued in 2005; in 2006, 300 permits worth $346 million were issued in 2007; 372 permits worth 300 million US dollars were issued in 2008; 343 licences worth $571 million were issued in 2009, 360 permits worth $467 million; 348 permits worth $757 million were issued in 2010, 324 licences worth $369 million were issued in 2012, 366 permits worth $460 million were issued in 2013, 444 permits worth $775 million were issued in 2014, and in the first six months, and we still have no value in dollars. Imports of arms and military equipment: In 2005, 59 permits of five million US dollars were issued, in 2006, 100 permits of $12 million were issued in 2007, 135 licenses of $57 million were issued, 176 permits of $129 million were issued in 2008, 182 licences of $111 million were issued in 2009, 152 licences of $79 million were issued in 2010, 148 licences of $55 million were issued in 2012, 134 licences of $30 million were issued in 2013, 193 licences of $54 million were issued in 2013 and in the first six months of 2014, 103 licences were issued. If we compare data on imports and exports of weapons, it is evident that, for example, in 2013 arms and military equipment exports were almost 15 times higher than imports, which means that a significant surplus was achieved in the foreign trade with abroad. I note that all values are expressed in US dollars calculated according to the National Bank's course on December 31st for the year for which they are submitted. The Government of the Republic of Serbia adopts once a year a report on the realisation of external trade in controlled goods, and in accordance with the obligation set out in Article 28. The law. The latest prepared 2012 report was published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 75/14 and delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for information. Reports for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. It should be noted that reports appear to be prepared and published with one year of delay, but this is due to the fact that they contain data on the implementation under the issued licences, and that licences are issued in accordance with the law with a period of validity of one year. As the reports were drawn up, the EU's recommendations on the form and content of the national report were respected, in order to be compatible with EU reports and the applicable purpose of comparison with the country's national reports in the region and beyond. I went even one step further, so our report contains realisation data that does not contain reports from EU member states. The report shall contain information on national legislation in the area of external trade in controlled goods, the export-export control system, international co-operation and the statistical review of export and import data of controlled goods. The annexes show data on persons entered in the register of persons who can carry out external trade in controlled goods, issued licences and export realisation, i.e. imports, their financial value, quantity and description of controlled goods according to destinations and countries of end-users, as well as data of denied licence applications. The total number of persons registered in the external trade register for controlled goods on 28 July 2014 is 176. The Ministry runs its own database on issued, confiscated and executed permits. Thanks to international donations, the base is in-innovated, as well as equipment used by employees. This has contributed, among other things, to faster licensing, which all relevant ministries have contributed to, so the process now lasts for about 25 days, and the law prescribes 30 days. With further promotion of the base should continue in that sense, because we have a constant problem with the lack of funds. It is noteworthy that the national control lists of the Republic of Serbia are in line with the relevant EU lists. New national control of the arms and military equipment list was adopted in June 2014, while a new national double-use checklist was adopted in February 2013 and both are in line with the EU-led lists. In particular, regular consultations with representatives of the economy should be highlighted. The ministry regularly holds a seminar for the economy once a year, which represents a good opportunity for businesses to exchange experiences with each other, as well as representatives of the ministry and other state bodies who participate in the licensing process and to present their problems and dilemmas that they face when performing foreign trade-controlled goods. The last such seminar was held in December 2013, and this was presented during the presentation of the draft export law – the import of arms and military equipment and the exchange of views with representatives of the economy on its proposed solutions. I'm sorry, I'm at a high temperature, so I'm asking for a little understanding. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria has chosen the Republic of Serbia as a strategic partner in rebuilding, modernising its defence industry. So far, co-operation with the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria has been developed primarily through military-economic and military education co-operation, which will be a priority in the future, with its further promotion expected, as they are comprehensive development. In line with the above, you are presented with the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence, signed in Belgrade on 12 February 2014. The agreement was drawn up in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and is fully in agreement with the Vienna Convention on Contracted Rights. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria sets out the basic objectives and principles on which co-operation will be based in the area of exchange and protection of classified data in the area of defence between the governments of Serbia and Algeria, and in order to contribute to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations, as well as peace and security in the world. The primary objective of the proposed law, i.e. the concluded agreement, is to establish a legal framework that would enable the parties to co-operate and their competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Defence in the field of exchange and protection of classified defence data, as well as the basic principles of access to classified information, the obligations of the parties, the means of data transfer and the procedure for the unauthorized disclosure of classified information. The agreement also contains transitional and final provisions relating to dispute settlement costs, entry into force, as well as amendments and additions to the agreement. The entry into force of the proposed law would meet the previous conditions for the implementation of potential areas of co-operation in the next period, in relation to joint projects in the fields of arms and military equipment, joint equipment and modernisation of armed forces, technology transfer and exchange of experiences, training and training of officer staff, training and training in postgraduate studies at the VMA medical school, cartography, training of civilian pilots, modernisation of the process of production of existing factories, designing and adaptation of specific underground infrastructures, construction of military hospitals, housing facilities and cooling facilities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in light of the above, I propose that the National Assembly vote a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence. Thank you again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9505	I thank you, Minister Gasic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9506	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I'm sorry you came today. We did not expect you, given that under this law, Mr Ljajic and his representatives were also on the Defence and Home Affairs Committee yesterday to present the text of this law. Somewhere you could see that this wasn't your matter, since you read the argument that stands in the law at the end, so we couldn't hear anything more than we already knew, getting ready for today's session and reading the draft laws that the government had sent. We agree that there is a need for the state of Serbia to pass one of these laws, because the laws governing this matter were adopted at the time of the joint state with Montenegro in 2005, as well as that of a preliminary law adopted at the end of last year. It is generally seen from this text that it is written in a more modern way than the laws that are written and delivered to this Assembly, and it is in line to the greatest extent with international rules that regulate this area which is extremely complex and important, first of all, what you said, given the potential of the dedicated industry in Serbia and the fact that it is still, although achieving budget surplus, although perhaps the full capacity that this dedicated industry has been exploited. This law is proposed to us to discuss an emergency procedure and it is an interesting history of this law. So, he was adopted in the same form by the previous government and, sometime in December of last year, was delivered to the Assembly, and then, when the new government was formed, since, of course, it was not due to the elections, at the end of April withdrawn from the procedure, with many other laws, and then it took the government three months to pass the whole procedure and return it back to the Assembly on July 25th, with a sign to discuss urgently and with an explanation why it is important to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The Serbian Parliament held several sessions during the two months. As we know which colleagues, during this period when we are not regular sittings, we are working on the agenda that either was proposed by the Government or by a group of at least 84 MPs and no one for these two months considered this matter urgent. Thus, the law welcomed the start of a regular session and continued to mark it urgently with an explanation that it was important for the Republic of Serbia, so I find it rather odd that this urgency did not at some point interest someone to come to the agenda earlier. But, okay. It's a good thing he's here today. It's a good thing we can talk about him. The fact is, this law is a good basis. There are some things in it that we believe can be better defined and that perhaps because someone who is not in our legal system has been doing perhaps the final revision of this law, so some things have been omitted to comply with our legislation. We have proposed several amendments to this law and we believe it is very important that these amendments be accepted, in order to make the law more complete, better and better fit into our legal system. What I'm saying is, you've been saying something here, reading from the explanation of some number from the annual report on the realisation of external trade in controlled goods for 2012. This is the latest report, published on the Ministry's website in July of this year, and it shows who and how many permits were issued, for which purpose, for import, export, which is the value of the goods that are scheduled. The fact is that the imports in 2012, the permits were issued for export for $460m, and they were only realised for about $153m, which is less than 2011 for about 10 million or 5% compared to the one realised in 2011. But what the Ministry's representatives told us yesterday on the Committee, and that's good news, that the preliminary data that in 2013 was double compared to 2012 achieved these exports and goods, and that's good and we want it to continue. We believe this law will contribute. What this law does not define, and probably due to some sublegal acts, it is precisely that this report is public, to be published on the Ministry's website. Foreign Trade Ministry officials also said they would give us a brochure, which was made from a donation, where this report was printed. But we predicted that it was not sublegal matter or the good will of the minister himself, but that all these data and reports were published regularly, as a legal obligation on the site, and therefore we believe that it was one of the amendments that you should accept. What citizens need to know why this is important, I'm going to set an example. Namely, why in the world is it insisted that trade and transport of this goods, arms, be kept separate records and system permits? We have one example where Serbia was included, from 2010. At the time, civil war was waged in Côte d'Ivoire and the UN was investigating the origin of the weapons used in the civil war. They found that most of the ammunition used in the Côte d'Ivoire was originating in Serbia. But due to the fact that Serbia kept this record, a trail of this weapon could be traced, and then it was seen that this weapon was legally exported to Israel, from Israel legally again, by procedure, exported to Burka's Faso, and then disappeared there, reported missing, and appeared at the battlefield and in the civil war on the Côte d'Ivoire coast. But in this way, the state of Serbia has not been charged with illegal arms trafficking and a stain has been removed from our country. That's why it's important that we have procedures that have existed so far. Our parliamentary group will primarily participate actively when we discuss the amendment. We believe that the law is a good starting point, that it can be further improved by the amendments proposed by us and by other colleagues. If these amendments are adopted, we will support the adoption of this law at the end of the debate. The second agreement is a good agreement that opens Serbia's ability to co-operate with a large African state. Serbia thus becomes part of the international security community and can offer its experiences and skills to the Republic of Algeria. Also, I think it's a good way to make it possible for our economy, both the dedicated industry and other branches of our industry to export to the Republic of Algeria, and that is why we will support the adoption of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9507	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, three very important reasons for the adoption of this law. The first, as Mr. Djurisic said, is that this law is in the common state in 2005, so we waited for a full nine years for the new law to be passed. Another reason is the harmonisation of our rules in this area with EU legislation. Thirdly, in my opinion, the most important thing is to create an adequate legal framework that is necessary in the control and control of weapons and that will help reinfit our dedicated industry. Yesterday, on the Security and Home Affairs Committee, we realized that this is an extremely good law. We were pleased by the fact presented by representatives of the Ministry of Trade, that it will serve as a basis for laws and in countries in the region, even countries in which such laws have not been passed so far. Also, it is very important that exports of our dedicated industry continue to grow with smaller oscillations, that in the period from 2005 to 2008, Serbia's arms exports were increased more than three times since the previous period and as you, Mr. Minister, stated that 443 permits were issued in 2013, and for the first six months of this year 198, I expect this law to be the first important and initial step in further increasing the exports of our dedicated industry with the aim of Serbia taking its place in the export of weapons that it once had in the common state. I will only comment on a few, in my opinion, important provisions of this law, in particular Article 2 which provides for tighter control in the areas of exports and imports and arms transport. I think that this provision is very important in the current situation, especially the international situation, when we have a crisis in Ukraine and armed conflicts in both Ukraine and the Middle East, and I think this way this provision of Article 2 reduces the possibility of potential exports of terrorism to the European continent, namely to our region and our country. The government of the Republic of Serbia is competent, on the basis of the proposal for this law in Article 4, and on a proposal from the foreign trade ministry, to establish a national control list of arms and military equipment, to supplement the list continuously and to coordinate the list with the relevant list at EU level. Also, in my opinion and in the opinion of my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group, it is also very important that Article 30 and 31 regulates arms transport and transit in a precise way. It is important that this transport is bordered by law, i.e. transit by land and sea from air transit, to specify precisely all documents necessary for carrying out these activities and to specify exactly how the escorts and adequate security for the export and import of these weapons are carried out. When it comes to enhanced control of the state, it is provided for in Article 16(1), which provides for a cross-response of jurisdiction. It is very important that we no longer have any discretionary decision-making rights on the part of the competent ministry, but that the defence, internal and external affairs ministries, as well as security structures, are equally involved in this article. All situations that represent a potential reason for obtaining demands are accurately listed. We in parliament always insist on strengthening the control role of this home. In my opinion, it is very important that this law provides for the competent ministry to submit a report to the Government and the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic on an annual basis, which will directly affect the direct control of the implementation of this law. I think the control of law enforcement with sublaws that I expect will be specified immediately after this law is passed, I think it's very important. I would only mention more criminal provisions under this law. I think it's good and it's my personal attitude to always be tall. I think that's how all the abuses will be prevented and that's good. New Serbia's parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal in the voting day. I would only like to comment on in a few more sentences on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Algeria on the mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence. In my previous assembly as a national MP, I was a member of the Friendship Group with the Republic of Algeria, and during several of our meetings with the Ambassador to Algeria in the Republic of Serbia, I learned some very important information for this country, and because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to present them at this time. Algeria invested $600 billion in its country and worldwide from 2000 to 2010. They borrowed the IMF as a state of $5 billion. In 2000. Algeria owed $36 billion, and in 2013, Algeria owed $36 million as a state. I think we can learn a lot from this country and we can improve cooperation in all areas of the economy. The NS MP group will also support the proposal for this bill to confirm the agreement between the government of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Algeria in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9509	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word has been given by MP Dragan Sutanovac, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, I will begin my presentation with an analysis of the last part of Mr. Minister's speech. It's the only part you've heard of objectively. The moment Mr. Becic told you to put the microphone down, that's when we heard you. Until then, we were following you visually, not audio. What I'd have to say is that for the layman your data that you're making is phenomenal sound and it's not disputed that a large number of permits have been issued in terms of that and that, but citizens would have to know that this principle of realization is 30, 40 and 50%. Given that in the last few years we've been doing major technology transfer jobs and that, among other things, we're re-exporting certain equipment that's also being imported into our country, the question is, what has our army actually bought over the last two years and whether there are any means you're going to show President Putin in ten days' time on that parade or you're going to get high, what would the people say, with someone else's feathers? That's what you like to do often, so I'm asking you that. I think that would be a good idea to find out. The law as well as any law, the assumption of the adoption of each law is to allow faster processes and to facilitate the business environment for those who are interested. Unfortunately, this law is a dry need, and if there is no dilemma that it is necessary to adopt it in no way speeds up the system or improves the control of the process. Personally, I think this law had to be much, much, much more modern, that it has much more flexibility, that the law is uniform, that it doesn't give every ministry the opportunity to deal with all possible issues and come out of its jurisdiction defined by the Government Act, and that's something I want to talk about today and tomorrow when we submit amendments. There are a number of things I don't think are well done. I'm sorry that you're here today, because I believe that you're not fully familiar with this law, given that your ministry is not the holder of this law, but the Department of Trade, whatever it is called, but I want to highlight a few things right now in these opening statements. If I may ask the chairman, in addition to enjoying watching fellow people get used to it, to remind them, because it's really hard to speak, even the minister didn't hear himself, not me. So I think there's a series of things that are badly done and that they need or we can change them if they're heard and if you want to accept the amendments. First of all, there's one thing that's generally known and it's a fact that has to exist, which is the introduction into the register. There are certain conditions under which someone can be introduced into the arms dealer's register with military equipment. However, what is defined in the law here, more specifically in Article 10, is said that if someone is refused to register in that registrar, they automatically lose the right to compete within the next two years. I'm not sure this is even by the Constitution. So, as a rule, we know that the security agencies that will give their opinion, that opinion remains discretionary, that opinion cannot be made public, and I suppose even the person who claims to register will not get the final answer. We've been giving him two years what to do? If that's something that's controversial to correct, it's still two years in trouble. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be regulated. We practically make it impossible for someone to act or even make it impossible for someone to work. The very fact that agencies, based on discretionary knowledge, can challenge someone's entry into the register about the possibility of corruption, there's a possibility that someone might challenge the possibility of working. I think that's the thing that needs to be changed, that it can only be done under conditions until it removes that interference regarding the registration itself. As you know, Mr. Minister, and I believe they also know respected colleagues, the biggest jobs our defence industry currently has concern primarily the transfer of technology and knowledge. The aforementioned Algerian that we started some four or maybe a little more years ago, and so did Azerbaijan, which we started a little over two years ago, these are the jobs that transfer technology. In Article 11, you predict that no one has the right to speak to a foreign buyer interested in transfering technology unless they get the approval of a competent ministry or all in a group of ministries which, I say, are legally interested. I think it's a member who also needs to be deleted, that it's very bad, because if you have a delegation that comes from some, let's say, interested African countries that come once in five years to Serbia, and if that delegation at the scene wants to start negotiations on some technology transfer, which is not a negotiation, you will practically disable that negotiator, or the trader, or even the SDPR, to start these talks until it has been approved, and the approval doesn't have to be granted at some time, since it's not clearly defined, as well as the mass of other things because there are no timings based on which the trader can know what time the various permits will be given. It's something I think has to change. This will make it impossible for those who are currently working on big jobs to be able to negotiate such jobs in the future. I'll remind you that there are a number of large events of military fairs, arms fairs, where talks are being held, and often negotiations. If our delegations show up at these fairs without the authority to negotiate technology transfer, they will not be able to conduct quality talks and this will certainly prevent further progress from our defence industry. Also, what's a big problem, is that this time, we have proposed even an amendment, practically derivating the Government Act, because all the ministries involved in this process, and this is seen in Article 16, or later in Article 17, all the ministries involved in the licensing process can decide practically everything. What does that mean? It means that, in the process of issuing the permit, the Ministry of Interior should first and foremost give consent to the aspect of the security of transport arms throughout our country, it can conclude that in this end-user, there is no positive reason to issue a permit and not to give consent. The foreign ministry may say it disagrees that the technology is being transferred, and the defence ministry can say it disagrees that the technology is being transported through Serbia. So we have submitted an amendment which unambiguously puts the ministry's mind on what it decides. To remind me, the foreign ministry is deciding on a political aspect and deciding whether certain sanctions are applied against the country, the final buyer, whether the European Union or the sanctions of the United Nations, or some perhaps unilateral sanctions that Serbia has. The Ministry of Defence through its technical institute should decide whether this technology, which should be sophisticated, which, unfortunately, we do not have lately, could endanger our country's security if the potential enemy comes into possession of it. The interior ministry should only give consent to the time and mode of transport of arms and military equipment throughout our country. Now we have a situation where everyone is wondering about everything, and that's why I'm saying that practically the Government Act, where it's defined which ministry does, derogates, and that creates the possibility that there's one process in which you can practically depend on all the foundations of all the ministries. After that, after getting these consents, something that had to change in this law, and there was also in the former... I don't expect you to just answer me by saying that in the previous law it was because I support the new law, don't have any dilemma. So, in the end, when all the consents are collected, the ministry is competent, this time for trade, it can be called the outside, it doesn't matter what, it can't issue a license. The question arises is whether it is possible in this country, if the Ministry of Trade, the defence, indirectly BIA through the MUP and foreign affairs, which is the authority in the Ministry of Trade that can say – we disagree? Out of what interest? Is it possible that people who work in defense, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are so inconclusive that they issue consent that someone in the Department of Commerce will then deregulate? I'll remind you it's about equipment, weapons and military equipment, which is something that's very sensitive and that should first and foremost concern these particular ministries. On the other hand, if you wanted to make this law so that it speeds up, you would have to stand exactly the time period when and during what period of time it will be issued, or not issue a permit and also, which is why eventually, and how can people who apply to sign up, how can they when they are first refused to correct what is unknown. So we can't say -- so those who are safe, to say on condition, in some ways the wrong ones will have to wait two years, because it happens, let's say, that some people are even on UN resolution, that they get off in the meantime, and we're still waiting for two years to pass. Why would that be? I think it's something that prevents adequate imports, i.e. the export of arms and military equipment, and thus production, and thus all those who work in that production. I think this law, as it is, is not good, unfortunately. That law will cause you trouble, not us. This law, with the disastrous Public Procurement Act, will make it impossible for our armed forces to first of all be equipped with quality equipment. It's no secret that the realisation of the investment budget in this year is extremely small and that by the end of the year, you're going to have a hard time reaching those 98% or 99%, as much as you should have, so you can boast, unless you give some extra money, which I also support, if that's done, if it's given to our factories. I think it's very bad that Jumko's been strikein' for six months, that's something that's totally unacceptable to me, and that FAP, here we hear today that some Ukrainians are interested in, they have trucks that are fantastic, that we've been buying for years until you've come to the position of defence minister, and today we don't buy them. I think it's something very bad, and I think that with that money, since you obviously don't realize it, you could run that production and finally FAP would do it again like it did a few years ago. Is that modest? Compared to the former Yugoslavia, it's extremely modest, but compared to the opportunities FAP has today, it's something that's very good. So, I urge you to be flexible in the day we consider the amendments, first of all from the point of view of those people who need this trade, I mean the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, but on the other hand, and those exporters who need to export arms and military equipment from our country. I recall, as you said, that industry was completely devastated in 1999 and today creates a huge inflow of funds from abroad, that over 90% of this industry is facing an ino-bought and that's something I'd like you to talk to the Minister of Economy, considering that this industry never got subsidies in the way that they get some other industries, and it creates additional value. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that this law is passed at a time when all the unions of dedicated factories, or the defence industry, have made one statement and are referring negatively to this law. I advise you to sit down with these people to talk. If all unions agree that this law is bad, then it's really hard for MPs to have an understanding of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9511	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, my apologies for not hearing me, but you couldn't hear me because you were talking on that side. Well, okay, please, I know you're always inspiring in your speeches and you can't outvote me right now. First, I don't agree with you that it's not my matter, because the Department of Defense actively participated in the drafting of this law, and that's clear. Just because Minister Ljajic isn't here, and because of his obligations he couldn't be, I don't think reading the introductory text does mean I'm not involved and I can't defend this law from you. How did you, as former secretary of defense, inform yourself so much, and I had to inform myself. However, you're doing it because you're also employed in such a company where you work with weapons, so you can also have more information than other MPs. The first question of yours was if we were going to show something new. Wait 16, come out to the mouth, take a walk and see what the Army of Serbia has done in the past two years. You say the unions of the dedicated industry. I talk to the unions of all the factories of the dedicated industry, visit factories and only one factory in the dedicated industry system that currently owes the most money to the state of Serbia, and there are debts in the period from 2000 to 2012 and the first place is the total debt of all Serbian enterprises, the first largest debt is the flag of arms. And that's where we're gonna talk next week. And that's where the union runs the factory, not run by management, and there's still this union and management from 2000 to 2012. It's not true that the transfer technology was created, as you timed it, only in a period of two and something more, as you said, five years ago. My last visit to some countries just resulted in the arrival of new contracts, large ones, we talked about one of the 60m euros that we have now completed in this period. As far as the law itself is concerned, all that you've just put out, so you've had it in the past, why haven't you changed it then? Everything you're criticizing right now, what we want, be careful, say, here's in Article 16. - the period of authorisation is 10 days. So, what's the problem now? What's the problem now? Now suddenly even the deadline is not good for 10 days, and by now you've had an unlimited time limit not to, to stop it. So, all that stuff you had, you say now we have a situation. Well, haven't you had it before? We want it sooner. What you're talking about now was your law that you could change and bring that easier and that Serbia has better results in arms exports because we have potential. Serbia's dedicated industry could be the driver of Serbia's re-industry. Why aren't we buying FAP? Well, because we had a situation the way we are that it was between privatization, waiting for the buyer and stopping the strike and stopping the tracks in Priboj. Secondly, even the Army, if you forget, is obliged to call public procurement. You can't just give money to someone. Maybe it was in some previous period, now it's not. As far as "Jumka" is concerned, the strike of 10% of the total number of workers is not a strike of "Jumka", because I see that you have enough information from the system itself, and I will tell you, as you have defended yourself from that release of information from a very serious and organized system, I see that you have enough information coming out of the system, and I will make sure that you are no longer part of that system that provides that information. I'm just asking you to finish this sentence. So, as for Jumka, Jumko has received 360m from the Serbian Army this year, he will also receive an additional contract at the time when the quality required and the standard required by the Serbia Army can respect. Then we'll move on, but it has nothing to do with the workers, nothing to do with the strikes, nothing to do with what you've been talking about before, and it concerns this law. This law can only help us to have better and better quality results in the export of military weapons and equipment. Of course, it will also enable us to make sure that what was sold to us between 2000 and 2012 all the equipment and weapons we had, and by task was to move away, that we could now in the coming period and modernise Serbia's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9513	I thank Minister Gasic. The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9514	Mr. Minister, I don't know if you're aware of anything that's forbidden. People will be removed because they are talking to an MP who is a member of the Defence and Security Committee. That's what you said earlier. It's censorship. You know what the problem is? You'll be alone and in the ministry if you put away those who communicate with me. You haven't read the law. So a ten-day deadline refers to when all consent is collected. And what time is it to collect all consent? Read me that article. Here, let the lady tell you. Read to me where it says: "What time is it to collect consent?" He's just gone. So ten days sounds phenomenal, but collecting consent can take ten years. Then someone who's closer, who doesn't collect that information from your cabinet, he has a chance to do something faster, someone who collects a little slower, but it's not a topic, Mr. Minister. I really don't think it's a good idea for us to talk about what happened here, I'm telling you, this law needs to be passed, but it's not good, it can be better. He was worse in our time, but when you look at these export figures you've read, so when you get there, then you say we're better now. So you're far from it, that's a fact. It's not my idea that we're having a debate here today about whether you're better or worse, whether the situation is better or worse, I want the system to be better. I think the amendments we've made will just allow this system to improve and I ask you to accept something without a dose of vanity. After all, I'm your senior colleague, and I've been here for five and a half years, and you're only five months. So you know what you'll know in five years. Imagine what you'll find out in five years, when you know everything when you're five months old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9515	Thank you very much, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9516	Dear Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Defence Minister and Mr. Gasic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is estimated that there are so many weapons in the world that the human race could be destroyed two and a half times. Whether it's small or a lot of us all need to evaluate. I guess it's enough for the human race to be destroyed once and for all. We MPs and our citizens would be happy and happy when there would be no debate in the world on these issues, and much less or at all, the means to develop weapons in the world. If all the weapons in the world were melted, the material could have been built up so many human objects that there would be no more homeless and no more poor citizens in the world. Of course, we can't live out of this world the way it is. We have our own dedicated production, and we have to develop it and help it as much as we need and as much as we can. It is important to note that the new law of our legislation in this area is in line with EU legislation as well as the application of international agreements, the conventions to which we have joined and which we intend to join. I think it's a good thing this law also provides that it's forbidden to trade weapons of mass destruction. Unfortunately, in one period, not long ago, we were the great victims of this very weaponry, because our country was just dumped and bombed, and the weapons were used with the poored uranium and our citizens and our children are suffering the consequences and who knows how much more of these consequences we will suffer. Negotiations for the export of technology must be given the consent of the Ministry of Trade, and will include the Ministry of Interior, the foreign ministry, the Ministry of Defence and the Security Service. Authorisation to export or import military equipment and weapons shall be issued by the Ministry of Trade for the performance of individual operations. It is important to note that an end-user certificate certified by the State, the end-user, must be obtained in the application for authorisation. The Ministry of Trade, a complete application for authorisation, delivers the consent of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the authority responsible for national security affairs. If one of these organs doesn't give consent to issue a permit, the government decides. The issue of imports and exports is not only an economic and security issue but also a major political issue. The SPS parliamentary group will support and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9517	Thank you. The word has a representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9518	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the honourable ministers are not easy for you today, but because you have a cold, you cannot defend yourself against the various interpretations of former ministers who are not easily reconciled by being no longer ministers. It's just that today's bill of law...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9519	Please, Mrs. Tomic, just pick up the microphone. There you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9520	Today's bill of law is not just a matter of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the legislation that has been given through this legislative proposal that speaks about the import and export of dedicated equipment related to weapons and equipment in general for military purposes, we also talk about a large part of the economy. This we have had the opportunity to hear that it is one of the important segments of Serbia's entire economy as a dedicated industry, but also the other part of the one relating to trade, which is, I think, the subject, in fact, in general the work of the Ministry of Trade and is very important especially that this part of the regulation is not only the UN and the Convention that we have signed as a state, but also European acts relating to Chapter 31. So foreign policy, defence policy, as well as trade policy. That's why it makes sense, and it needs to be as transparent as possible, in fact, this area is arranged. I thank you for even giving this bill public debate along with the dedicated industry that took place last year. That's why I think that at all, everyone who wants to attack that part that many ministries are involved, and we didn't mention the Ministry of Finance which is actually one of the most important ministries in order to realize any job in the state especially in this area and very important, and I think that the synergy of the ministries actually shows the unity of the government. That it's not just the Department of Defense's job to import and export these equipment. As a result, the law that existed in the previous term when the common state of Serbia-Montenegro was a common practical area with the Double Purpose Act and therefore separated the two laws. We discussed a double purpose law on the Committee on Business and Trade and we had an opportunity here in the Assembly to sit down, and now we're talking about this law. This law defines, defines completely, so this area. Not only does it give one political weight in terms of European integration, but it also gives practical assumptions to strengthen control mechanisms in this area. Why does she matter? Because it hasn't been regulated this way so far. Because public procurement was done the way the ministry prescribed the procedure. Now we will have practically according to European standards a certain procedure that imports, exports, how certain brokerage services will be done, how these equipment will be carried out. The introduction of the register is one of the most important parts of this law that shows that what has been in the register by 28.07.2014 has been related to trade, and it is practically one of the list of suppliers dealing with this area and was 176, which shows that a certain list was in the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Defence. Now, with this law, they're practically defining jurisdiction. No more overlapping, which is precise, these are the criteria under which the permits are issued, and so far we haven't had them, so this discretionary law that we keep talking about is not good, because it was obviously kind of working from 2008 to 2012 and therefore it's good to have this law that defines it. The dedicated industry, how a special segment of the economy and why I talk more about it, because it is one of the significant potentials of our economy and development opportunity has now been given the opportunity to work in a better way through a particular partnership and with certain institutions that are outside the borders of this country, but it will know exactly where the technology is, where our experts and that cooperation will be fully controlled both by the ministry and by the government. What makes Serbia recognizable is that we always have smart engineers, people who work in certain institutions, related to the Serbian Army, in which simply, the projects we are now working for the future, someone has to finance. This funding is not always possible from Serbia's budget, but because of this, it is now possible for this transfer technology to be in one adequate way, not through certain traders who will deal exclusively with the trade of certain military equipment or weapons, so that we have no control, when and how technology transfers will go. What to say is that the figures show that the ratio of imports and exports, that goes in favour of budget surpluses, that exports are 15 times higher than imports, that if we look from 2005 to 2014, the number of export licences increased from 274 to 443, that the number of import licences from 59 increased to 194. It is important to say that this promotes competition, which is what the EU teaches us, to teach us that there are competitors in the capital market, because we simply, above all, contribute to our budget by getting a bigger economic exchange, a bigger trade exchange, a greater number of business activities, and that country itself has much greater benefits. The government of the Republic of Serbia also adopted a major report on the realisation of external trade and the 2012 report to the National Assembly of RS. Simply, the report in its form, as it has been delivered to us, was written with EU recommendations and that is very good, because the country's country reports in the region have been written, and we can therefore compare. What is important is that the National Control List of RS is in line with a national list relating to dual-purpose goods, i.e. the EU list. So, the form in which we are working now shows that indeed the Serbian Army has made great progress over the last two years in the application of all the legislation, not only those relating to the UN and EU international conventions. The public work that we have a chance to see through this law gives us a lot of material that Serbia has shown itself to be a stable political partner in foreign policy, and because of that, which is the most important part, and we have had opportunities from my colleagues to hear, that we didn't know who the ultimate buyer of weapons was before, so you come into a situation where you have problems with certain political groups, or economic continents, because you simply don't know what part of the world your weapons will end up in. The law now defines the "end juzer", the end-user, which is very important, and therefore Serbia becomes in the world in general respected, and indeed placed in one place that it likes. I'm not going to use all the time of my parliamentary group, for the simple reason I'd like to hear more discussion of certain colleagues, and in the end, I would really at the end of this debate, maybe add a lot more, which will be very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9521	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Since we no longer have registered representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common, principled and uniform search. The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the ministry, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, for the first time I see in this room that authorised representatives of parliamentary groups don't use much time to explain the law, so from that we see that the regulation used to pass this law is fully correct, and we have even heard that all parliamentary groups will support such a law. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army on my unselfish commitment to the removal of the consequences of the elementary disasters that happened to Serbia, and in May of this year, and also these recently in eastern Serbia, where it has shown what the army means to the people and that the people and the army, without each other, cannot. What matters about this law and all regulations yes, first of all we will have positive effects on the external trade balance. Also, the country's credibility on international occasions is growing, so the confirmation of this treaty with the government of the Republic of Algeria indicates what our military industry means and that we are returning slowly to the right path. What I would ask the representatives of the Ministry of Defence to pay attention to some parts of the dedicated industry that once meant this country, and now to say, they're a little extreme, and that's primarily in Piroth, there's a Tigar AD dedicated factory "Tiger Technical Gum", which was once a major exporter of military aircraft equipment, and above all I mean fuel tanks, etc. Also, the second part of the system and today is exporting protective equipment to the Norwegian, Finnish military, so I would support the former minister's proposal that the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Defence sees and directs some subsidies to the development of these factories that have been said, a little extreme lately due to the financial situation itself. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9523	I thank you, Mr. Bones. The word has a folk MP, Borislav Stefanovic, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9524	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, I have called here to try to sharpen this situation, with a bill of law. We heard certain answers from the minister, however, after all, we did not get an answer to a specific question asked by my fellow Sutanovac. So there are some really visible shortcomings here in the text itself, which make the procedure very difficult for us, in this for Serbia, extremely important strategic action. So the question arises whether, in the certification process, you have reportedly left out highly important ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, ISO 27001, since we have information that it is? That's the first thing. The second question is how do you think you are implementing this process when there is absolutely no deadline for the opinion of the competent ministries and there is no limit to their opinion within the domains they cover in their portfolio. In other words, such an interpretation of the law, according to us, will lead to difficulties in the process of conclusion of jobs and will lead to the "know how" obtaining prior confirmation of the approval of the Ministry of Defence. As my esteemed colleague Sutanovac illustrated it, if the interested party comes to the interview, a man who wants to "export know how", i.e. professional knowledge in making, let's say rifles, he has to say – excuse me, stop, don't ask me anything while I call the Ministry of Defence. You understand that in real life this will lead to very difficult and difficult situations that will further make it difficult for us to process and further to make it difficult to export arms, export our knowledge and the possibility of it being freed from unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. Also, it's completely incomprehensible, unconstitutional by us, a provision that runs the company, i.e. A company that applies for a job, if refused, is forbidden to reapply, I think, for two years. It seems to us, behind that is probably some interest, I can't explain this decision differently, or you explain it, so we understand, maybe we don't understand. We also know that despite the fact that you have tried to present here not only the arms race, but also the Serbia Army disarmament race, in a conversation with your predecessor, who is more, who is better, where the numbers do not stand on your side, unfortunately for you, but also, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, these seem to be very specific issues, given that you were in Krusik too, let's say three days after my visit to Valjevo, when I spoke to representatives of unions and employees there and you talked and let's say the factory was very bad. I don't know if, ministers, they told you that there's workers sitting there fighting, waiting for a guaranteed minimum, there's no export-oriented jobs, and people say they're sitting and playing cards, that their director is an absolutely inappropriate person who doesn't show up at all at work, and he's not even qualified, but well, it's in the manner of this government, so it doesn't matter. I think you should give a real picture to the citizens of Serbia, not to bring down the activities of the Serbian government related to the export of the dedicated industry for what is always a great industrial driver of Serbia, only that things are so banalized and so depravated, to believe the ministers, I'm sure you've had a funny fact that two batteries were being discussed in Serbia for weeks, and then normally every citizen says, at the same time, we heard a colleague of Veseinovic say, we're going to have a parade. What does that mean? We'll have a parade? The military is in a difficult state, the dedicated industry seems even harder. It seems to me that the SDPR is our export company that is in charge of these real losses and is it true and does the citizens of Serbia know, can you confirm that the SDPR is the first time making losses? Do you know who works for you at the SDPR? You know. Do you know if these people are qualified for this job? Is it true that people with party ties were hired there by force, sons of various, Simonovićev, Vucelicev, Spacious? What are the qualifications of these people? When did they deal with arms exports? What is their particular qualification for security or defense or anything other than the 1990s, let's say, even though it was more cheerleading than in practice? So these are serious questions for our dedicated industry. These procedures, as Col. Sutanovac explained it precisely, are bad, difficult, slowing down and opening up room for a suspicious and experimental decision-making process, and you assure us that is not the case. What does that mean if the Foreign Office says - we don't think it's a good trade move? According to this text, they can also deal with the assessment of trade impact, economic impact, not foreign policy. You've left space for a completely arbitrary broad interpretation. It is never good when the regulation is passed, and especially the regulation that regulates the specific trade in the products of the dedicated industry, so to speak, either weapons and military equipment. I'm not an expert on the area, I admit it, but I, I think I can easily see the shortcomings of this text and in that sense I think that the government should do much more to speed up the export of weapons and military equipment, not to slow it down in this way, to allow everyone an equal match, that this game is not burdened by an assessment of a certain officer at some level who will thus block the process of not having an end of braking. So there's no deadline, except for a deadline that's given that someone can't reapply in case someone rejects it. Let's just say that one of my colleagues here has such a company and it's estimated that it's not safe because we're yellow, you don't let us do this job for the next two years because it's been evaluated, because the management has assessed it. By what? What are the basics? What's the criterion? Too many things are put in the shadows here, in the dark and Serbian citizens, I think they need to know a little bit more about it, of course, not jeopardizing national security, but it also takes citizens of Serbia to know that you, not you personally, but that the party you belong to is run by the defence segment for over two years, that for those over two years you have tried to preserve the situation, you have tried to secure regular salaries, to continue the assignments to our officers, to continue military missions and to do something minimally related to our otherwise, to say, in poor condition military technique.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9525	Mr. Toskovic, please do not disturb the speaking MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9526	No, I don't mind. You probably see for yourself that it is very problematic, Minister, when the whole picture of our industry's work is acutely presented to Serbian citizens through a cheap poster, conditionally said, of two batteries, announcements of mystic repairers in Russia, helicopters, none of that, buying new ones, there was nothing. Do you understand? I'm afraid with such provisions you further cement one process that cannot progress I don't know why, whether it's a deal, some deal, some middlemen or not. Someone malicious might think that. I'm certainly not one of those, but you're here to ward off these doubts. You're here for that. I don't doubt your desire for our military industry to function, I don't doubt your desire for us to export, as you call it, as once military equipment and weapons, but in order for you to succeed, and to do so well, such provisions, so imprecisely placed, with such a space for abuses, in our opinion, do not go into step with your wishes and ambitions. They're exactly the opposite. Imagine, five ministries, five institutions that are completely selectively uplifting can give opinions on arms exports, and everyone will now wonder within their jurisdiction, without a deadline. As you say, everyone will have plenty of time to professionally look at every subject and in time, fine, slowly respond. This, according to us, will further prevent successful export of weapons and military equipment. That's for sure. You know what Serbian bureaucracy is. Now, come to the MPs, to the esteemed colleagues, prove it in a few sentences, I know you can do it, that we're wrong. Tell us that this arbitration in the multitude of institutions, their decision-making in the absence of deadlines, selectivity in registration, selectivity in exporting will lead to better exports of equipment and weapons, and without it there is no progress and there is no future in which you believe there is no dedicated industry in Serbia, there is no "Krusika", there is no flag. Will you come back to the government again to cut us out of the budget when the guns get up there and start strike, and you know they're on the edge, they're always on the edge? They're not on the verge of it, but because there's no perspective, there's no job. Where are the jobs? Where is the export orientation of Serbia's dedicated industry? It's your duty. It's the duty of the SDPR gentlemen, not to drive jeeps around Belgrade. This interests me – how many pieces of what we will take out and when, because it depends on both "Krusik" and "Stava" and "The First Partizan" and many others. I'm finishing this presentation with a request that, Minister, you try to answer these things, but also try not to be the general type of answer, but to be precise. Here, show us how these "great" procedures will speed up, facilitate the export of equipment and military weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9527	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Minister Bratislav Gasic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9528	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, Mr Stefanovic, I will never remain in your debt to answer and explain these things, but I don't understand why you're trying to discuss this issue and try to get some cheap political points? First, you heard that absolutely this law is in line with all the legal acts we have in the EU. Secondly, of course certain areas and certain members of this law will also be regulated by sublaws. The fact that you're talking about certification, in a technical sense, is not a certification that the company receives as an exporter or as an importer of arms. They're suing different topics. Of course they have to follow all the standards, but it's a different law regulated, not by law and this certificate that's supposed to get here. You say-- the deadline the Ministry has to give. And that's regulated by some laws, and you know exactly what services they do, how they check certain companies so that it doesn't happen, as your former colleague from the same party once said earlier, that in 2010, you get caught a ship with a weapon that went into the market that's under the arms export embargo on that ground. That is why we cannot define that the services will do a check on these companies that have applied to receive certain weapons export permits in a way – e, you will get in ten days. That's impossible, but with all the documents stored, ten days is the deadline after that when all the things they need to get, they bring in as prescribed by this law. Ten days is the time to get it. Secondly, the last 12-14 years have not changed much the number of companies interested in arms exports. They were all registered from 2000 to 2012. So nothing more important happened here now. This is what we are trying to help those who want to invest in Serbia by no longer having to own it, and you had it, and we can give it for the sake of knowledge to the citizens of Serbia, the firm where they were fictitiously the owners of some former generals, some former high political officials, and that there were others behind them. That's why we had so many problems with illegal arms exports between 2000 and 2012. What's the problem? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9529	Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9530	You say you want someone to come and now it's happened, for God's sake, some foreign delegation of a country that wants to enter a factory, because, well, suddenly it occurred that they can take out ammunition, automatic rifles, so they want to tour. Why didn't you let that happen when you were in power that someone without permission could enter the plant of dedicated production? I don't understand why now. The procedure had already been quite clearly in line. It is known how permission is sought to enter and to tour some dedicated production factory. Therefore, the name itself says – dedicated production. When the exports of technology are in question, of course by some other laws, you asked, so listen to me to answer you, some other laws regulate intellectual property. You had here at your place, I've been doing intellectual property laws more than once, which we signed with more countries in the world, just for protection, because that's why we have our scientific potential, the people that this country has been creating for years back, who are working on new inventions, we can lose because there's some other country that has more money than the state of Serbia has. Of course it has to be regulated, too. You can't do something that we in the army in our VTI won, that you are now, because you are angry at your immediate elder or at your politics or at someone else, to go and sell to a foreign country. That and the former minister, and you know perfectly well that this is clearly defined by the laws in both Serbia and Europe and the world. This law does not reduce the ability to export technology, but in a legal and legal way. As for Krusik, I don't have the feeling you have. Probably you're meeting someone else, not those. You forget that you sold Krusik batteries around 2008 and that factory was active only six months after the sale. They sold all the silver they had on the lager, five times as much as they paid the state's purchase price, and it stopped all the production. Only the Krasik battery factory in Valjevo can produce for the next two years only for Serbia's Army. You'll see, very soon it will start working and very soon all the resources of the Serbian Army will be restored, when the needs for batteries, are they in the system of connections, are they in other fighting systems... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: private? Never mind private, non-private, privatization has fallen...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9531	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9532	We will in the next period watch how to "Kruik" batteries these people there help them start getting paid and start producing, because they were once very significant on the market. As for Krusik himself, the balances also show something different from what you have just said. Whether one of the workers plays cards, so he probably does. What you were saying earlier, it's writing anonymous letters, which I got, what you just said, that's those stories. Those to whom the director never responds, who never corresponds to the management, who would always want anything, 15. You can be together in Valjevo, three hours after me or three hours before me, receive what they were promised, no more minimumer, but salaries as they signed and agreed with management in a collective contract. They've got plenty of work to do to get paid. Don't forget just one thing, that it's the same factory in Valjevo, where the previous director bought the most modern Audi with televisions in all possible seats, that it's the same factory that had a huge loss until 2012. These are the balances you can take, public documents to see what happened there in the previous period. Now they've got a profit. It can't be a fictitious gain. Now they have orderly salaries from month to month and now they have a slow process of production that comes back. As for the SDPR where you take this data, but don't forget and take the number of employees over the past two years of SDPR and take the number of employees over the past 12 years. Don't forget that here at your colleagues and party friends, party colleagues to come across, who receive large salaries, as advisers, who were once in high political places, some were ministers, some were in general structures, which have worked for many years. However, do not forget that the SDPR has offered to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia now help with the 30m budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. What kind of loss is that if they have extra funds that they can spare? They'd remove all suspicions, you say, left behind places to suspect. This government works absolutely in accordance with the applicable legislation, and that's why we don't have arms dealers, first of all, can't a single arms dealer talk to us about it. You know how it goes under the law. They know what permits they have to get first from abroad so they can come and ask the Foreign Ministry. I'm shutting down the absolute possibility because even now these same companies that were formed in 2005, 2002, 2003, 2007 had no problem and no one has ever seen whether they were yellow, red, white, orange or anything. It was seen only that they did not violate the arms embargo in the country where it was banned, that they had regulated UN licenses and there were no views of whose companies and what companies they were, but the law was seen and the law was seen and the law was passed, and when the law was passed, the law would also be seen. You have to distinguish what the Foreign Ministry gives as consent, whether it discusses the very weapons that are being exported or the political aspect. You know it and you know it's regulated by law. And last time it was regulated by laws. The Department of Defense gives its consent to another aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9533	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, a replica to the presentation of Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9534	To speak of someone, Mr. Chairman, so bravely, so bravely, when he is not here and when he cannot answer, as Mr. Stefanovic did before, speaks more of him than he does of people who are not there. As far as the flats are concerned, we've heard them. I will bring out what is true, what is data, which is that the new director of Krusika for the first six months of operation and work achieved revenue greater by 2.53 times compared to 2013, that the result that is higher by five million euros compared to last year. As for those batteries that were mentioned, I was happy, Mr. Minister, when those batteries arrived in Serbia, because these batteries were dams and the difference between MiG's cutting policies, as some tanks and flight operations were cut. I can't understand why someone doesn't respond and doesn't feel right when something in Serbia works and something works, when it becomes functional. When someone asks the question why, say, Mr. Spacious in the SDPR and with what characteristics is in the SDPR, and this is said by a man whose first job was highly ranked in diplomacy and who had no prior experience in diplomacy, it is, at the very least, hypocritical. I can accept someone with great experience saying that, but someone whose first job is high in diplomacy asks a question why someone like a graduate economist in the SDPR is really hypocritical. Anybody driving jeeps or cars, I don't know. I guess they're driving, I don't believe they're walking to work, but at least they're not banging congregation cars. What I'd like to tell you is to talk about SDPR and talk about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9535	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9536	Just one sentence. I have the data and the balances of the success of the SDPR, and it's necessary to look for that data, they're public, they can be delivered before anything is flat-rate. Mostly, compared to last year, SDPR such as SDPR achieved a cost reduction of 16.04% and income growth by 2.4%, with a difference of 886, almost 887 million dinars. That's the data, not the flat-rates that come out here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9537	Thank you. The speech came from the head of the DS MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica of Mr Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9538	Nothing can surprise us from the previous speaker. That's so cute already. Let Serbian citizens continue to enjoy these locks, but let's get back to the point. I think it's clear to you, Minister, that what we've been saying about giving the opinion of certain ministries is you're absolutely right. That's how it's always been. The problem is, now the text doesn't say it anywhere. I've just shown you that it can be very wide-ranging. Why don't you make that clear, I don't know, but we'll try to amend that, and I'm asking you to accept that amendment. Since I see you agree with what I told you earlier, that I know what the Foreign Ministry is saying, where I was usually admitted to the competition, let me say once again, because of these experts, because I graduated from the state college, which I am proud of, but it doesn't say, Mr. Gasic. Yeah, you're saying there was a problem with arms exports. And you say that in a way like someone encouraged them or, God forbid, allowed it in any previous government, and you know it's not true. A specific ship seems to have driven weapons to Israel. What does the state government have to do with it then or now? But when you say abuses in problems, i.e. arms export problems, perhaps you mean this Mr. Tesic? You know who Mr. Tesic is? The man who was involved in the arms trade and who was an MP, his daughter was an SNS MP, and he was usually the finance officer of your party. I don't know if it's still there. Maybe you mean him when you say problems? There's no record of a ten-day deadline. I know you do this skillfully, but tell the citizens of Serbia – what Borko says is true, because it does not say. At least be so honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9539	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9540	I'm done. I think all of us together could do a significant job of fixing this text, only if there's a little goodwill on your side, that this, otherwise important area, is being introduced into some order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9541	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9542	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want, for the sake of the public of Serbia, to say a few things. It seems to me that in this political struggle, Serbian citizens are getting some information that absolutely does not stand. When we say - batteries, you try to make it look like it's an irrelevant thing, we took from some car some battery that we put there on some plane, so it's as easy to go, as it was around the pyropatron for the seats for G-4, etc. Your colleague knows perfectly well that when you have complex combat systems, and MiG-29 is one complex combat system, it's not exactly like that. The story started, the batteries, and they're not even called batteries. It's not a battery that we're going to start some MIG, it's got one complex fighting system that costs 89,000 euros a piece. You'll see in the parade how many Serbian armies have planes and whether it was a story about one or two. You need to know, Serbian citizens need to know, this law partially regulates that, without the consent of a manufacturer of such a complex combat system, you cannot buy one piece of it, whoever produces it in the world. So it's a very complex topic when it comes to arms and military equipment exports. I know you know this well, but in a political struggle you're trying to twist, trying to negotiate, that's not the point. You know perfectly how to trade weapons. You know we had a tender that failed because India offered us MIGs so-called. "Accumulators", as you call them. We can't buy them because we can't get them from the Russian side of the paper, approval that we can put them on our plane. As for Mr Tesic, I do not know the gentleman, because unlike the earlier period, when certain ministers met with arms dealers, the Ministry of Defence has not spoken to arms dealers since 2012. They have professional services that can give them licenses or not give them. If they have everything under the law, no problem, we'll help, and above all we'll help our dedicated industry export that weapon, but by law and where there's no embargo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9543	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let MP Dragan Sutanovac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9544	Thank you, Your Honor. I must admit that I am very proud and glad to hear the results Mr. Babic had just delivered and related to the "Cruik" and related to the SDPR. Ponicu, of course, the results of the director of Krusika, otherwise set in January 2014, 2.53 times the total income of Krusika is higher than in 2013. Why am I saying all this? Not to mention the SDPR, which has 107 million contracts, so much so that it works in losses, and otherwise lends to the state. We just heard from Minister Gasic. I have to make a special note, and yesterday, the lady from the Department of Commerce stressed, is that our exports are 100% higher than last year, and I'm talking about arms exports. Why am I saying this? You can be as pacifist as you want in life, but if you don't have a strong army, you don't have a strong economy. It's proven by the greatest forces in the world. The state's superiority is that it has a fantastic military industry. They can produce as many planes as you want. Now the Russian Federation's in on it. Whoever has a strong army has a strong state and a strong economy. We heard amazing things here today. For example, the illusion of dictatorial lands and that only they organize military parades. It's total ignorance and it's amazing that someone can bring it out. Look at the magnificent military parade organized in London in honor of the British Queen's birthday, for example. Let's say, in Paris, when it's Republic Day, look at the French Army military parade. So it's totally amazing stuff and nonsense when someone puts something like that out, and only to say something somewhere to attack the current government. When you're talking about SDPR, and I see you're often advocating the current leadership, tell me what affair the SDPR is having. Did these people have any kind of an affair somewhere? We will be reminded of the great affairs in some previous period when others were tabled in our Army, from the "Satellite" affair through arms exports to Libya, and even in Georgia, where it says that Vuk Draskovic prevented our weapons from being exported to Georgia and thus disrupting relations with the Russian Federation, etc. You don't have it today. Today you have a successful business and I can only congratulate the people of the SDPR on what they've done. You here, Mr. Gasic, are resented for being such a rigid control, not to you, but to the general state, about who can obtain a certificate, or the possibility of importing, exporting weapons. I'm for even more rigid control. I have to admit, I'm not so much a supporter of private companies as I am of this kind of business. Maybe I'm an old-fashioned man. I agree that only the state can do this, but I know what EU standards are, and that's something we've accepted, and I think we've done well with this law. That article 11 is a disputed one. Excuse me, it seems to me that we need to give greater authority to our security services to verify who can do this job and who has to do it for the import and export of weapons. It seems to me that it was necessary to oblige the Department of Trade to obey our security services. So, to be binding on him, he has to listen to whether anyone can get a license or not, and not to say that the consent received does not oblige the ministry to issue a permit. I agree that the Foreign Ministry, if it gives a professional opinion, may not have to respect it, but our security services must respect it. I think it should have been done. I believe that's how it's going to work, but that's what the law should have predicted. I say, personally, I believe that this business should simply not be possible in the current standards, as the EU rules it itself, to express the opponent of such freedom in this business because it is highly sensitive issues, even if in some future period, because of the incredible development of terrorism and various negative phenomena, the state will increasingly control arms trafficking and not just allow everyone to import, export arms. I'd like to ask you, and that's very important, regarding the issue of a permit within 10 days. I completely agree with you. I'm a supporter of even more rigid control, but you know when you point out that ten days from the day of your last consent, it can be a sword with two blades. Someone can, for example, keep your subject in a drawer, who knows how long, and while he gives you that consent, it can be six to seven months, and someone wants to make a profit in that business. I think maybe there's a possibility that such a deadline might change in some way. The deadline of 10 days is not controversial, but when it is said, from giving the last consent, while all instances give consent, the question is how far it can go and then that 10-day period really comes down to something that is not good. Anyway, law as law is good. I call on the state and our security services to do as actively as possible and to bind themselves to this law and call on the state to make as much progress in this segment as possible. I'm not in favor of anyone saying now that I'm a militarist, so, well, to cheer up, God forbid some conflicts around the world so we can export the weapons, it's totally insane, but every serious state is essentially living off the dedicated industry, and I hope our army does. I know you have huge potential. There's one thing I'd like to ask you to do. All right, importing techniques, in terms of rifles, tanks, infantry weapons, but when it comes to information technology, that's where I'd ask you to lead and how it counts because today it's one of the most deadly means and espionage and everything, and ultimately, the submergement of the army itself. I think only the state would have to pay attention to who's doing it, who can import it, export software, about the military, and even about the defence system itself. That's where I call on our services to be as active as possible. In any case, the law is really good, maybe with certain modifications, if you think it can change something, make it even better. In voting day, there's really no reason why we can't all support something like this here and, of course, support our dedicated industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9545	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you need to know and it cannot stand in the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In order to trade goods like this, one who wants to export to a third market must also have the country's import licence. We can't write that. How can we guarantee that this country will issue an import licence within 10 days to that interested company? How can we guarantee if there's, say, no, on some non-residental basis we're covering with military envoys? How can we get everything we need from the data so that we, as a ministry, can say – will give you 10 days? That's why we can't commit to that part, but when he brings all the necessary papers and that import licence from the country he wants to export the weapons to, he'll get a permit within 10 days. That hasn't happened yet. Secondly, it was in the previous law, and here I have the previous law, it was about what are the responsibilities of which the ministry, but it was also not clearly defined what, which ministry should issue, but the Ministry Act knows what are the responsibilities of which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, what is the Ministry of Defence, what others, to be able to issue one piece of paper, one consent before obtaining permission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9547	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9548	Thank you. The debate that is being held here has finally convinced me that this law is not good and that the arguments that are being made here, which from now on went that for the first time we will now have control over arms exports, that for the first time we will get some certification, that we will know where our weapons are going because of this law, etc., these are things that serve the layman's view of those who don't understand. You just said a thing you don't understand, or you have an evil intention, and I question it. When you say it's our fault that our weapons were sold to someone in the Ivory Coast, and our certificate was in Israel, it just suggests that you, I say again, or you don't understand, or you have bad intentions. When you talk about a 60 million-dollar deal now, I support it. Don't have a dilemma in general, but don't derivate what was done before you. Yesterday you shared the keys to the apartment you had nothing to do with. Nothing to do with it, except the key you got in your hands, you got nothing to do with it. So it's all done in our time. I support that you do, and I support that in Zemun you do not get 13% of Serbia's Building Directorate as you intend, but 21% as we do, but I have a problem of another kind when you say - we question. This law, the Government Act, changes with every government, and this law doesn't have to change. What are we going to do tomorrow if the Government Act changes, and the Ministry's jurisdiction changes, and then this law comes into conflict with the Government Act? On the other hand, Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me, several times today, please listen to me, several times today you said that some high-ranking officials, even high-income ministers in the SDPR. Would you be kind enough to tell us who these people are? A while ago, you made one notorious lie here. I don't blame you. I spoke to the high-ranking officers of the Serbian Army and asked who could have given you such information? They told me, just some irresponsible man. If someone was going on a helicopter to the Serbian Army to fly to Greece, it's not true. You say that here to welcome the tabloids and hang them on the front page. Tell us who went there. Give us a name and a last name. Give us the flight number, who were pilots, let's see the order. And let that one be tried. Let him answer for something like that. Not to use your mandate to speak here, since we're all protected here. You can say someone went, as you say since 2012, they haven't been negotiating with traders. Get a list of those who've been coming to the Ministry since 2007-2012. You have everything there on the list, who entered the cabinet of a minister who deals with arms trafficking. Nobody. No one once. And it's great if you keep going with that trend, but don't talk about it like some new potholes were invented. It's already done. When you're celebrating those two assets, the battery, I support it. The problem is we've been in a situation before. We've got a problem that's piling up. Someone in the planning didn't know when the resource would expire, so you're in an unguarded grape, and because of the bad Public Procurement Act, you can't handle it. You have to change this law, as well as about public procurement. On the other hand, I fully understand the suggestion given to you by the lady sitting next to you. The administration's desire in Serbia is to obtain power. You'll be here for a while and you won't be there, and the administration will still be the one to decide. Do you understand? It's not you. It's the administration. Someone there will say BIA or VBA – he should not export. Don't say you don't know who I'm talking about. We had a letter here from that story, very close to your former president of the party today. But I'm not the kind of man who's gonna argue with anyone, nor do I think the arguments we're talking about right now are that we should possibly entertain a private initiative in the arms trade. Total absurd. On the other hand, I repeat the question, whisper it to Mr. Babic, let Mr. Babic remember, I'll wait. Maybe it would be good if you took a paper and a pen to write down, since obviously you can't remember. Who flew a Serbian Army helicopter on vacation? Who's a consultant at the SDPR who's getting high wages at the moment, and who are these people who are employed there, were generals? That's what I'm interested in. I'm worried. SDPR is the company I worked for. I haven't worked for seven, eight years, if you've thought of me. You're too late. They're telling you the truth, and you're saying it here from the position of the Secretary of Defense. It hurts when you come here as an administrator. You come here as an administrator, you read some of the laws they wrote to you, and you're the minister of defense of the Serbian Army. They're sending you from the government to read something that has nothing to do with the defense. I wouldn't accept that if I were you. It's the humiliation of the defense system. There was supposed to be a minister here today who has no other business. You have a lot of other work to do. I know very well, the situation isn't as great as you say. On the contrary. You know, we had a problem a few years ago with exporting the world's most modern and best rifles when we bought it for our special brigade. That's what we're going to brag about the day after tomorrow at that parade. Those guns were bought. Again, someone cheated on you, so you came and said, "We'll buy the best rifles." What kind of guns are you gonna buy? What are you going to buy when the best thing in the world is already bought? Our special Panchev brigade has equipment that doesn't have seals American. You go there, and someone says to you: this is the Shutanite; now you say what you will buy. And what did you buy? Unfortunately, it's not a good condition. You're talking about Krusik, he's had a historic contract since 2008-2010. Ask people. They strike hunger there by 2007. Today when you fired 500 of them from Krusik, you say you have a 2.5% better effect. When you fire everything, you'll have an even better effect. Every day people lose their jobs in the defence industry, not in the SDPR. There's more of them there. There's a lot of experts out there, and every day it's getting bigger. I hear when some delegations travel, you can't count how many people need to be in a delegation that goes with the SDPR to a arms fair somewhere in Rio, say, and then you intervene whether you, whether it's not so and thank God it's not because you're aware of the responsibility for the system you're running. When it goes down, it's not like that. Second thing, you're talking about the defense industry, the directors. No director has been set up in a party, but none. Most of them were inherited and today they're working. For the first time in Krusik, we have a director who's been put up in a party. The director of the SDPR, who is today the State Secretary at the Ministry, is not a member of any party, at least I know, and he is with you a senior state official and is sitting in the government with you when Mr Ljajic is not there. So if something wasn't right, ask him what was wrong. I claim it was much better in his day than it was today. For what? Because we didn't wait for the customers to come. You went abroad once for two and a half years, signed a contract, I don't know why you, but it doesn't matter. Sir, that's what I said here when you became Minister, what are you waiting for? Iraq? Tomorrow in Iraq. They won't come here. I know there's something going on here, that some people bring in a mixer, etcetera, but there's no job without you. I wish you good health and you'll get through that sneezing so you can gather for the parade and after the parade, go to those positions where it's difficult, but where the pepper grinds and where it's going to provide jobs for our defense industry. Please respond to the Serbian public – who, where, by what aircraft, by which order flew on the sea by a helicopter of the Serbian Army? You owe me an explanation, or you have to tell me who cheated on you. I'm telling you it's wrong. It's completely untrue and it's just amazing for me that you as an experienced man believe one of those things that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9549	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9550	... I use time as my boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9551	You can't now. You can do it at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9552	Is that right? You took that from me last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9553	The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have insulted me many times in your address. I don't need your apology. I understand your pain, your desire to still play Bah in the halls of the Ministry and that no one alive can be in the halls. Why haven't you been to some places where I've found myself because you might be able to talk to some of your past friends and tell them what new experiences they are. I understand what you're saying. I will not offend you. You carry your burden, but I don't speak politically here. I'll always have my government colleague, and that's exactly the kind of relationship that's being built in the government, to replace, especially for these laws where the Ministry, which I'm running, was actively involved at this point, and I don't see anything wrong with coming in place of my fellow Ljajic and being here today in front of you and answering everything. Of course, the associates who send my colleagues to be with me, and so are my people who are professional and whose answers you should not doubt at all, because they've been in those places for many years, which I don't see badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9555	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. (National Ambassador Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: He mentioned me personally. Mr. Sutanovac, you've said enough and you don't have the opportunity to replicate, especially not the replica of the minister. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9556	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I'm allowed by Mr. Sutanovac or you, who runs the session... I don't know why you're nervous. Please regulate the time and warn.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9557	Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9558	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. No matter the noise, the anger, the anger, I'm not afraid, so it's not a problem. What I'd like to say, and as far as the license goes, I'm not going to say flat-rate again, I'm not going to say obvious, I'm not going to say cheerleader, I'm going to say very exact, and that's that, for example, for the exports of weapons in 2013, 444 permits worth $775 million were issued. I will remind you that I have data for all previous years since 2005 and here, that, let's say, more licenses issued and more amount exported than for 2006 and 2007 are summed up for 2007 and 2008. Therefore, the results of the ministry's work are more than two years during 2007 and 2008. So much for the license. As for Krusik, I'd like to ask the representatives of the former regime not to mention it, because I've been retrieving the exact data, and the information they're boasting about. At the time, 1265 employees worked in Krusik. Of the 1265 employees 515 in production, 40% in production. Everything else is directed, logistics, 27 secretaries. Is that an organization? And I'm not surprised why the former regime and former director made a minus 4.4 billion dn. Whether it was supposed to be maintained and then bothers someone again because the current director was appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and made a profit, i.e. increased profits by 2.53%.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9559	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9560	I don't know which one of the ministers is, and I don't think it's any of them, doesn't work in the SDPR from the current ministers, but I know of a former who's been at peace in the SDPR for 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9561	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9562	As for the accumulation of functions itself, the accumulation of employees, 375 people worked in the SDPR in 2013, at the end of August, 371 employees. There's no accumulation, but there's no 27 secretaries like you're used to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9563	The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic has the word, and let the MP Momir Stojanovic be prepared. National MP Sasa Mirkovic is not in the O.R., so the word is Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9564	I must confess that I always have the nerve to talk in this room about the bill of law concerning the military and the Ministry of Defense. The porch is based on the fact that in this room we have the most famous expert on the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, those experts who, by military jargon, have two dry Fridays in the military or the Ministry of Defence from experience. Before I say and look back on the obviously very good bill, I would like to look back and interpret some discussions concerning the situation in our dedicated industry. Mr. Minister, make a little effort and look back in the past 2000 to 2012 as she did business and on what principles our dedicated industry. If you look at the relevant documentation, you will see who has been members of the board of directors and supervisors for the past 12 years in our dedicated production factories, and you will easily notice that these are many prominent members of that party who are giving us a lesson today why our dedicated production is in the state of it. This may be taken out by the competent services and then it is simply immoral for the representatives of the party today to give us a lesson as to why our dedicated production is in this state. And you'll also see how the directors were appointed, how the salaries of these dedicated capacities were arranged, so you'll see which foreigners these directors belonged to and how much their salaries were. For Serbian occasions, they were rudely high. If you continue to deal with arms and military equipment, you will also see who were key players in the key company for arms and military equipment, Southport-SDPR, and you will see what role they played. If further analysis of your competent services is carried out, they will see how we exported the weapons, whether directly to the country of the arms importer or through some intermediate companies, how the papers circled and who was all embezzling through such a transaction when the issue of arms and military equipment was raised. There's a company here, Mr. Tesic. I'd like to meet the public, it's about Genex, and that's all there is in the Military Security Agency's analysis. If you investigate the business of the company, it is certainly the connection with the representatives of the SNS, but you will see who Mr. Djordje Tesic was coming to, how he was getting jobs and what kind of company it is, so you will conclude that those in this room today are talking about the transparency of the arms and military equipment export process and how they were strutting with Mr. Tesic and the company "Geneks". And not only with it, you will see that the licenses of those involved in arms and military equipment were obtained from 2000 to 2012. The second remark was ironic, I hope. What will the Serbian Army show at the scheduled parade on 16 October? The criticism in a cynical way was addressed by those who were headed by the Ministry of Defence for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9565	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9566	Let me, please, I have to answer those charges. I'd like the same to answer your question what did they do to sell excess weapons and military equipment? At what cost was that weapon sold? What is the status of this weapon, and how much money did we make to import more recent military techniques? Why is the surplus of military immovableity alienated at enormously low prices in municipalities where the representatives of these parties were in power? Why hasn't there been more money to equip our army with more modern means of war technique? So, these remarks are real, with this increase in the number of employees in the Southport-SDPR company, and my colleague Babic made it clear that there is no accumulation, devoid of any basis. Do critics of the current situation in the military and the ministry, and above all when the topic is intended production, still feel responsible for such a situation or for those who have inherited such a condition and are trying to change something, I hope for the better, are holding lessons today? When it comes to the obvious good bill of arms and military equipment, I will remind the public that the area, even at times when I was engaged and followed by the official duty of arms and military equipment, has never been arranged in our country. For a time when she was in the army's jurisdiction, the control of arms traffic and military equipment was pretty solid. However, after 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, when this passed into the jurisdiction of some other services, we had major problems as states and negative foreign-political implications due to suspected arms transfer and military equipment in some countries under the embargo. This proposed law is a very good law and all congratulations to the competent ministry and working group involved. This law for the first time accurately regulates the obligations of both importers and exporters of arms, as well as brokerage firms and intermediaries, so it is impossible to find any major objection, only if those who are discussing this law today have no evil intentions. What I would ask, Mr. Minister, is this. Article 6(2) says military equipment will not be exported to countries under the arms and military equipment import embargo based on the relevant UN Security Council decisions and the European Security Organisation, i.e. the EBS, but the second part of this sentence is controversial - and other international organisations that commit to the Republic of Serbia or under the relevant provisions of national legislation. You know that today in the world for every country, including ours, is a very profitable export of arms. If we interpret this second part of the sentence maliciously, it implies that a country that has some political, economic or military interests in another country will dispute the export of our weapons and military equipment to that country. Because here, when it is said – other international organisations, I ask which, if we are concerned by the United Nations, if the Organisation for European Security and the Security Council are the most relevant organisations when it comes to the arms and military equipment embargo? In doing so, these countries that can disturb us and how they export arms and military equipment to those countries. The second objection is to Article 8. There's been a lot of talk about him. Conditions to be met by legal persons in order to obtain a certificate for the export of arms and military equipment. Those terms and getting consent, I think there's a misunderstanding here in the middle. It is said that the certificate of legal person and entrepreneur for the import and export of arms and military equipment can be obtained ten days after the last ministry in charge of giving an opinion to the Ministry of Trade has delivered its opinion. I think the amendment of this article can be arranged because it implies that our security checks at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Security and Information Agency, if those checks last for a year and a half, and we are obliged to comply with the proposed legal provision within ten days of the last competent ministry delivering its opinion, I fear that it will be very long. Why am I afraid of that? That's where I'm going to be resented by my colleagues from the Southport-SDPR. I am afraid that if we do not amend this provision and specify within what time period the competent ministries will have to deliver their position and opinion, and within which time the competent Ministry of Trade has to issue or do not issue a certificate, we will be in a position to favour the Southport-SDPR by having more capacity and opportunities to obtain these permits, and the private ties of many traders today, and private and business ties are also how strong today in the world when it comes to arms and military equipment. And what's our goal? I guess our goal is to get as many weapons and military equipment out as possible. Then that competition will allow us to export as much as possible. I see the minister disagrees with me. Agreed? All right, nice to meet you. I'd point to Article 11, very controversial, Mr. Minister. In the third final position, it is said that the Ministry of Trade, when it gets the consent of the competent ministries, does not oblige it to issue a technology export licence. What other instruments does the Ministry of Trade have if they are not in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and all give them positive? And the Ministry of Trade assesses and says – regardless of the opinion of these ministries, an entrepreneur or a legal person cannot obtain a certificate for the transport of arms and military equipment. On the basis of which criteria will the Department of Commerce then... (Bratislav Gasic, from place: Transfer technology, not weapons. ( b) Technology? I'm sorry, then, my failure. In general, let me conclude, it is a very good bill that detailedly regulates this matter and the SNS Parliament Club, and I believe and see from the discussions of my predecessors that other parliamentary groups in the voting day will support the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9567	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9568	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers with co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today's proposal for a law on exports and imports of arms and military equipment. First of all, I want to say that this is also a major step forward in regulating this area, i.e. this law is a system law, this law is a new law, and it is in one systematic way and it is a comprehensive way that regulates the area of exports and imports of arms and military equipment, as well as the area of supplying brokerage services and technical assistance. This law stemmed from the need to bring our legislation into line with EU recommendations and procedures. A colleague of Alexander of the SNS has already stated that during the screening of Chapter 31, the harmonisation, harmonisation of legislation in this part, which relates to foreign affairs, defence and security are indicated. Mr. Minister, it is my pleasure and honor today to have you here as defence minister suggested that we talk to you about this bill, although, of course, focus is on the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, although exports and imports of weapons and military equipment concern foreign trade, and that an important area of defence is an extremely important area of the MUP, is an extremely important area of security, it is an extremely important area of the Ministry of Finance, primarily the Customs Administration. For this reason, this is in fact the more reason you in one competent way, you can present this law today, because this law, of course, concerns the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia, from that aspect of your presence, is more than welcome. What I want to point out is that this is one system law, that this is a new law, that this law is in line with the agreements that the Republic of Serbia signed and which are otherwise binding on our country, as well as with resolutions, such as Security Council Resolution 1540, but also the arms trade contract signed in 2013. I would like to refer to the harmonisation or implementation of the signed agreements and resolutions we have adopted and the international credibility of the Republic of Serbia in the world is rising. Of course, this law represents a good legal framework for transparency, for consistency, for systematicity, at all these areas of exports and arms imports, but it certainly also represents legal certainty for our dedicated industry, which we can say is also a significant branch of industry, a branch of an export-oriented industry that works with a very large capacity, and which employs a large number of workers, according to some indicators it is about nine and a half thousand workers. I will only mention the factory of the dedicated industry "First Partizan" from Užica, which employs 1,500 workers, which has more exports than 10 times, means imports are 10 times smaller than exports that this factory of the dedicated industry realizes. Of course, she has already arranged jobs for a longer period of time. The dedicated industry can certainly also represent a significant industrial branch in the economic recovery of our country, and the economy has repeatedly pointed out, the SNS pointed out, and of course the prime minister of this government, that the number one is in some strategic planning of our further activities. What I also want to potential is a member of the 16th law, which precisely, in detail and clearly regulates the issue of obtaining permission. I must point out that this is one of the few laws where all those ministries that touch import, arms exports, military equipment, supply of brokerage services and technical assistance, which is except for the Ministry of Foreign Trade, which is basically the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. The foreign ministry is obliged to request consent from all these ministries, as well as to request consent from a state body dealing with national security matters. The national security authority is required to return the information within 60 days, and the ministry is required to issue a permit within 10 days from the date of receipt of the last permit. Article 16 precisely and clearly defines what happens if individual ministries do not give consent, in which case a decision on obtaining a permit shall be decided by the Government and then by the competent ministry within 10 days of issuing the authorisation. I would also like to refer to the Unique Register, which is now in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I would like to refer to the mandatory certification, i.e. the confirmation of who wants to export, the one who is actually registered for the export of arms and military equipment, the end-user who will use this weapon to avoid various abuses and to avoid the collapse of the international credibility of the Republic of Serbia. I would point out that entrepreneurs and business entities are obliged to keep records, but of course they keep records within ten years of the deadline when the last job was done, and the same with the control aspect is also significant. It is not less important for criminal provisions which, of course, are specific to criminal penalties under the Law of Infringements, but with criminal penalties, a safeguard measure is provided for the exercise of activity which may last on the basis of the severity of the offence from one to three years. For the implementation of this law and for the importance of the final provisions relating to the adoption of sublegal acts. In order for the law to live, to live, to be fully implemented in reality, and how important it is that all competent ministries, and we saw that there are more, brought their sublegal acts. That deadline is six months, and I think that time limit is quite enough to bring in sublegal acts. The proposal for a law on exports and imports of arms and military equipment is important from a defence point of view, but is also important from the economic aspect of the Republic of Serbia. The agreement concerning the exchange and protection of classified data between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Algeria is also important except for the exchange of classified information for improving bilateral relations, but also for improving external economic co-operation in particular in the area of arms and military equipment production. It is important from a point of view, which represents a legal framework for further professional exchange of experiences, for the perfecting of our officers, for the perfecting of our doctors. Therefore, there is no dilemma, the SNS in the voting day will support the bill and, of course, the Agreement on the Exchange of Secret Information between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Algeria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9569	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9570	I thank the chairman for the opportunity to say a few words and thank all the previous speakers who have already said so. I'm going to try not to repeat what we've already heard, and I'm going to try to say something about the situation where the current government is absolutely supporting and the Socialist movement that I belong to. It has to work and it has to work to resuscitate the situation or what the people would say, it must lead to order in all areas of social life in which there really was a mess, mildly said, and real chaos. One of these areas, despite the legislation adopted in this area in this House, whose member I was in 2005, the Law on Exports and Imports of Weapons, although there were provisions and norms that regulated this situation, was a lot of irregularities and irregularities and ambiguities, and therefore the need for conditions to arise in this area too, to bring things into order and the epilogue of all this is the proposal for this new Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment that we are discussing today. Two things are indicative of this area, and we can conclude which we can imagine and which could be heard from the presentation of opposition MPs who can indirectly provide information about what this bill will practically cut off, what will lead to order, which are primarily the area of trade, private trade in military equipment and weapons. Thanks to one of the previous speakers, I am indeed in a position to support his position as a member of the Socialist Left Movement, one of the biggest supporters and advocates to be in this area, only the state can be as an authorised entity for action, but what we do is such that despite the companies held in the area, private companies are also present. However, we need to take a restrictive look at this area since, despite the fact that in 2005, a law was passed in this area where, for example, in the Pirotical Casary, it was remounted in 2009, and for sale, who knows how many tanks, who knows how many other machines that went where. If the law had been restrictively applied or the law in this area had been strictly applied, there would not have been foggy things in that area. It's one of the examples that suggests that things really need to be brought to a higher level in this area. In addition, we have found a catastrophic situation in an area called deliberate production, an area that shared fate, and I would ask colleagues, opposition MPs who, if they have something smarter to do, to do it outside the O.R. or to pay attention to what we're talking about. Unless they're interested in it, they're interested in the public. Therefore, the overall economy of Serbia, which was practically brought into an unexplainable situation of chaos and absolute disorder in 2012, can be taken into account by examples of those enterprises that were not involved in the production, manufacture of weapons and military equipment, but absolutely, there have been phenomena in the area that can only be characterised by the example that in "Krusik" it was in 2014, on January 3, when the new director of the 27-member secretary was appointed. The results of the new director for the six months since it was set are such that the total revenues are better by 2.5 times or more than in 2013, and that results have been achieved compared to the previous year by fivem euros. Is it necessary to take a better picture of the situation that we now need as a government to change for the better, in order to regain the degree of functioning of our economy that once existed? To support this and some examples from the middle from which I come from, which is Pirot, sometimes in the Pyrotian Tiger A.D., which was up to a year and a half ago on its knees and prepared for bankruptcy, because some cobwebs from some of the then authorities have been forced to privatise it, out of bankruptcy, normally, is now in the situation of re-thinking after the adoption of a reconstruction plan on production, not only those products that are for general purpose, but also some products that are made in the "Tiger", which concern the dedicated industry. To point out that once in "Tiger" aircraft equipment, for tanks, they used to be made in "Tiger A.D". I hope that, in the coming period, by hiring the Ministry of Defence, the Minister himself, as well as all other members of the government, the situation will be brought back to the establishment of the area from that production, to establish some old contacts and that we will be able to boast, that we have employed the dedicated industry, even industry at all, and have brought into a better position. Unfortunately, the situation is not as good as the First of May, which did not receive adequate assistance, because the predecessors absolutely sold it, sold it into depravity, and someone profited there with some fourm euros because it was bought for 2m euros, and sixm euros were charged from the state for hiring a new workforce, but the last one will be given by investigative authorities. The former giants from the textile industry, who once produced military equipment and jackets, military suits, are now in the situation that his workers are on the street, and is practically a company ahead of bankruptcy, because he shares the fate of the "Aha Moore" that was privatized, that is, the company bought it. I must point out that the other thing that is insinuating the opposition, and what we could hear today, obviously military co-operation with some of today's extremely good partners on that military plan, co-operation with Russia, is, in that context, a negative mention of the organisation of a military parade to mark previous events or events that will come very soon. I am proud to point out that the satisfaction of me as a member of the Socialist movement, as a Serb, as a citizen of Serbia, is that I participate, not only in the organisation, but also as an ordinary citizen, to attend a military parade attended by our distinguished guest from Russia, Russian President, Mr Putin. This Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment is absolutely necessary, it will contribute to resuscitating and stabilising the situation in the area and will strengthen two things that are very important, which are the establishment of export production in the area of the dedicated industry, the employment of economic capacities from the area of the dedicated industry, and hopefully, the establishment of best links and co-operation that will also have luxuriant consequences for our economy with our traditional partners, above all with Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9571	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and let Marijan Risticevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9572	Can you secure the minister's presence? Here's the minister, thank you. There's some news about your health going on, so I was worried about it, and it would be good for you to hear it. The new party believes that the law is in principle good and that it regulates an important area that has not been adequately arranged so far. It is certain that there are gaps in it, but I think your failures can hardly be discovered at this point, but they will be discovered in law enforcement, so there will be no harm, no shame in having this law reassessed within a year, its functioning, and to see if anything can be fixed. Of course, the amendments proposed by Mr. Sutanovac and some others should also be taken seriously into account in making the final decision. Definitely a serious area, a serious law, and there's no dilemma. In this debate, we received an exaggeration on the importance of exporting military equipment, imports, as if it were the most important business branch in Serbia. It was not the most important business branch in either the former Yugoslavia, the Unclassified, the Soviet Union and the different division of the world, let alone today. Of course it's important that that part of the industry that deals with this production should survive, if possible, but let's not represent it as some miracle that will solve our economic problems, it's simply impossible and we need deep economic and all other reforms to get to the point that our economy is working in a valid way. I think this area is going to be fine, and I think we're going to have plenty of time to review the functioning of the law itself. Since the defence minister is already here, I think there may be an opportunity to ask him a few more questions that have to do with this topic, and that is to say, the minister himself said the October 16th parade is expected, my question is – what is being marked on October 16th? What happened in Serbia on October 16th, so it's a parade that day? I watched a little bit in history. That day, Enver Hodge was born in 1908.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9573	Mr. Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9574	Pope Voitilla has been elected Pope of the same, it's hardly a cause. So, please, I didn't mention the parade first, I mentioned the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9575	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9576	It's that day and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9577	You've spent three minutes and I'll give you time, but please return to your agenda. I don't want to hear about the parade now, or the directors, it's about the law, about the serious law, so I'm asking that in that sense your discussion continue. Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9578	So, October 16th, does this have anything to do with the export of military equipment? Is that a theme? Do you want to hear that? So, does this parade have anything to do with the imports of military equipment, or does it have to do with the execution of Maria Antoinette, which happened in 1793? I'd like to hear the answer to that question, why is the parade on October 16th? Another small question, which is -- on what basis is military security, on which basis does the Serbian Prime Minister receive it, and on what basis does the citizen, who is his brother? I think it's a subject that's very important and that's very...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9579	No, I won't let you, while I chair, I won't allow you to discuss outside the subject. Stick to the Rules of Procedure. What does security have to do with this or the law thing now? Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9580	Mr. Chairman, what you're hearing or not listening to, it's your personal matter. Everyone here is talking about a subject that's on the agenda today with their trips to various, we've been listening to reports about SDPR, that's not the agenda point, we've been listening to reports about who's working, who's flying a helicopter, so where do you find me to break up with? About nepotism, there were family quarrels at one point. Now you warn me because you do not like it. If I only listened to what I liked in this House, I'd be deaf a long time ago, not listening to anything. That's not the way it's going, but I'm not going to give you a lecture, you're a man of serious age, and I respect you completely. You heard the questions – on what basis does the prime minister have military security and on what basis does his brother have any security, let alone military? Why is it so important in the discussions of others whether we buy weapons or not? From batteries to hundreds of planes, tanks, state-of-the-art guns, why is this important to a country that's military neutral? Don't you think it's a little paradox that we're supposed to be military neutral and on the other hand we need to build up weapons? That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9581	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9582	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and you there who are happy, as someone who has served as an army, as someone who has owed a weapon, I am obliged to say a few good words about this law, although as far as I can tell by previous speakers who have not served the military, who have avoided serving the military deadline and thus have not handled the weapon, so perhaps I am not qualified enough, perhaps they are more qualified for it, because the speciality of some has been in how to avoid military service, how to avoid weapons and not how to serve their country...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9583	Mr. Risticevic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9584	I'm talking about the weapon, Mr. Chairman. At least you served the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9585	I'm not so bad I don't understand what guns are and what military service is. I can understand that you want to challenge certain people to run a replica, but I don't want it that way. Please stick to the agenda theme. Do not call out to anyone whether he served the army or did not serve the army, the problem of the state and the government and the individual himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9586	Thank you. So we'll talk about guns. So, as someone who served the army like you, I am obliged to say something about that weapon, since I served in a state that was not ideologically mine, but it was arranged. I served in a country where the army was not ideologically close to me, but I served it and it was arranged. At the time, the production of weapons, the export of weapons was also a significant point in the country's economic development. So in some introductions, I just wanted to explain how important it was to have an army in order to display the weapons that this army has and which country it produces. With that in mind, I made such an introduction that we didn't have an army, that it wasn't armed at the time in accordance with the weapons of some armies that were competitive, less competitive, but we were at the top because we had a good army, we had good arms exports and good foreign exchange income. We made firearms, guns, rifles, mortars, planes, tanks, etc. This production was done on the territory of the entire former state. Someone produced one piece, someone else, together we produced tanks that at the time were one of the more modern tanks. Those tanks are gone today. Some say they're soluble, some say they're not, but most of the time they're missing from this country. So if anyone wants to avoid any disputes he must be preventively armed, he must be prepared to conflict in order to preserve peace in order to be prepared for these conflicts, he must produce, import-export weapons. It is the army that will always have the support of farmers, of us who live in the country, of our professional farmers, unlike one of my colleagues, we want to absolutely support this gathering, if it is necessary to import equipment, weapons for its needs, that this weapon be modern, that it be a force that will deter all possible enemies, because we farmers have the saying that not all plowers are to be crossed into swords, nor all swords should be overrun into plowshares. Given what the plow makes, the sword needs to preserve. With that in mind, we peasants have always been rural residents, always loyal to the military, loyal to weapons. It is generally known that every peasant house has adequate weapons and with that in connection, every dedicated industry, every arms trade, if it is legal, we will support it. We will also support the arms and parade with those weapons, whether it is import or export. We'll absolutely back it up. We peasants certainly do not support the kind of parade supported by these others, therefore, there are others who have already been held, and those who will be held with our weapons or weapons that have been imported absolutely have our support, in that sense the leadership and our government, and also those who come to visit, regardless of what marked the date that ideologically is marked in one way that I do not view as completely my own, but it is something that is committed to liberating this country and it does not need to be mocked. So we don't need Mary Antonae, we don't need Enver Hoxha, we don't need some people who absolutely didn't want to see guns in their lives and we don't need that kind of comment. With this in mind, in order for our country to meet new standards in arms trafficking, it is certainly necessary to support this law and, under this law, to import and export arms. We need to support our army and we need to want our economy on its feet as soon as possible. So that we can have this economic power to import the most modern weapon and have a force that will deter all possible ambitions of potential aggressors to this country. That's why I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9587	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Let MP Aleksandar Martinovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Gasic, a respected guest from the ministry, I today have one opinion that you, Mr. Gasic, are "The impression of the week", because finally the government is sending one, let me say, a relatively good bill. And I think you deserve to be "The Imprint of the Week." I would only ask you to listen to me, since I also have some questions regarding the content of this bill, and since it is a practice in every congregation of a democratic state to come up with the best solution in one dialogue, please answer these questions that I am going to ask, without forgetting the questions asked by my colleague Zoran Zivkovic 10 minutes ago, which you did not answer. We have a bill on exporting and importing arms and military equipment, and I read the first reasons for law-making, and then by order of all the members of the law. In the reasons it writes fine - the basic reasons for the adoption of a new law concern the harmonisation of our legislation with new EU rules and procedures, as well as the application of international agreements, conventions and regimes that our country has adopted or which it intends to adopt. I think that's a really good explanation. We need to do this kind of coordination, and we've already agreed to do one part of it. Unlike, for example, your colleague Loncar, who I couldn't say to is "The impression of the week" because he always sends some arguments that aren't good, you've prepared yourself here and it's an honor. But on this bill of law, I have several questions concerning concrete members of this bill. Here, for example, Mr. Gasic, article 16 says: “Decision on a request for authorisation. The Ministry shall submit a complete application for authorisation to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Authority of the State Administration responsible for national security matters." Dear Mr. Gasic, what is behind this coin: "the authority of the state administration responsible for national security affairs"? Is that the BIA? Or is it, for example, the National Security Council Office? I think it's very important that it's very precise here that we don't leave a chance for different interpretations. So that's one question. Second question concerning Article 6 concerning the prohibition of technical assistance. It says: “technical assistance is prohibited if it is intended or can be used for” and is now listed what these situations are. I think it's okay. But now I have another kind of problem when we get to this Article 6. We have another law, which is very close to this law, with which it is in direct proportion, a law concerning dual-use goods. There, for example, we have a Article 9 that lists some exceptions. And then I think it's possible to play some of what's written in article 6 of this bill, if someone were to call, for example, on Article 9 of that second bill. What's my message, Mr. Gasic? It's necessary to comply with the law. It is your job to discuss in the Government that you come to the Assembly with harmonised bill proposals. For example, Article 22 of this proposal of the law concerns the withdrawal of licences: "The Ministry shall withdraw the permit by way of a solution if", so we have three points, point one, point two and point 3: "face deleted from the register". Now, we have, for example, under other provisions, the situation that a person can re-enter a register after several years, the connected persons are, for example, unknown, and then it seems to me that there are great opportunities not to protect the interest of the state by such a kind of failure, so please just tell me what your opinion and answer to this dilemma or question about Article 22 is. Dear Mr. Gasic, please answer me the fourth question – do you know, did you ask, did you check, did you hear why Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic banned the TV show "The Imprint of the Week" with a national frequency B92? That was four questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9589	Mr. Pavicevic, you must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. According to Business, MP head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary party, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9590	Member 107, Mr. Chairman. I know that you will say that this is something that is said in the last sentence, as it was said yesterday, as it will be said tomorrow, so that it may not remain - yes, perhaps not. Maybe "The Impression of the Week" will be -- yeah, maybe, no, maybe next week, I don't know. So that there may not be something left that may not be unarranged, that the private property is sacred in every orderly state, that the government cannot affect a private company that, with private production, should have or not have a TV show. How long will the weight around Alexander Wolfie's legs be? How long will everything that happens in this society be put into his hands? They'll keep quiet because it's in the last sentence, but you have the right to the first sentence after that and to sanction more of these things. I can also ask a question in the last line of advertising of the Rules of Procedure - why were thousands of people wrongly and unfairly processed and arrested in 2003? How much did that cost the state? We can ask such questions forever, but that "The impression of the week" was not -- yes, perhaps, no, or -- perhaps, no, to be "The impression of the week," let us once put an end to it, and that everyone does their job in this country, that they know where they can interfere and what they can interfere with, and what they can't and can't interfere with politics. It's been a while since politics has decided who's going to say anything, who's going to waste or not. It is great that Mr. Pavicevic supports it so that politics determines who will have or will not have a show in a private company on private television. It's independent journalism. It's an influence on private companies, on private property. How much longer will you tolerate the fundamental postulation of the real disturbances in this room because they are spoken in the last sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9591	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm obliged to give you an explanation. Just as you said, I consider it disrespectful to the chairman because something is said not even in the last sentence, but in the last word and thus does not allow the chairman to react. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Pavicevic, you are now reporting to the Rules of Procedure and I tell you, if you violate your statement by the Rules of Procedure, I will give you a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Gasic, a respected guest from the ministry, I believe that a member of 103 has just been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here, let me try to explain why I find the Rules of Procedure injured. Mr. Babic, a respected Mr. Becic, reported for a violation of the Rules of Procedure just now, article 107. His duty was to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure to explain how the Rules of Procedure was injured, and Mr Babic did not do it, but, the Honorable Mr. Chairman, spoke of, to remind you, the right... I'm explaining how Mr. Babic broke the Rules of Procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9593	I warned you before you started saying don't talk about what happened to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, if you wish to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, but you will not speak, repeat what the previous speaker was saying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9594	Okay. Here, I can erase from my speech some of the terms that you're on, for example. At this point sensitive, but I would like to say that Mr Babic spoke in his speech about everything other than what caused him to be injured by the Rules of Procedure, and he specifically did not speak about anything concerning the proposal for an export law and the import of arms and military equipment. It is my opinion, Mr. Chairman, that you should have warned Mr. Babic during these two minutes, as you are now warning unjustly me, to explain how I violated the Rules of Procedure, not to speak of the right to private property and private television.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9595	I think Mr. Babic was talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman, and he didn't say that you violated the Rules of Procedure. So much for that. The speaker of the SNS parliamentary group head Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9596	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, only I think my colleague Risticevic reported before me. I'll thank my colleague Risticevic if he gives me the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Since I don't need someone to interpret words, you don't talk about the agenda point after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is the number one untruth brought by Mr Pavicevic, and number two, for the sake of explanation, I reported by the injury of the Rules of Procedure because I think, I argue, I am sure that the dignity of the National Assembly has been humiliated for two reasons - because Mr Pavicevic promotes that the government, the state, can put his hand in the pocket of a private company or private company, or any legal private person, whenever he wants and how he wants it and when he responds to Mr Pavicevic, which I think is incorrect, that it is not in accordance with the law and that the Assembly is humiliated because the idea that politics is promoted here determines and affects the independence of journalism, so that the government will order that some show to be placed or not put into the programme scheme. These are two basic postulates of one country - the independence of journalism and the sanctity of private property if it is acquired, of course, in a legal and regular way. You be quiet, Mr. Chairman. These were injuries to the Rules of Procedure heard today and yesterday, and I believe they will be heard in the next period. I want it to be known that Mr. Pavicevic, the New Party, whatever it is, that the state, government, anyone, can put their hand in the pocket of private companies, private companies or private persons and, on the other hand, that the New Party and Mr. Pavicevic advocates the dependence of journalism, that the government determines which show and what will be on some private television, in some private company. Please tell me, is that open then?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9597	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As a matter of fact, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered immediately after Mr. Babic, and Mr. Pavicevic was, but I have no problem with the opposition having an advantage. I'm advertising an article. 103, 106 and 108. Article 103 speaks of the right to indicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 in point 1 states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. Article 108 speaks of the order being held at the meeting of the National Assembly as the former president of the National Assembly. In this regard, to comment on this breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pavicevic allowed himself to hold a session in some way, namely that he determines what can be said about certain points of the search. This is the second day, I don't know if you were present yesterday, that Mr Pavicevic has harshly accused the prime minister, and it is also the Parliament, who chose this government, that it is in a certain way unauthorized, which is the impression of Mr Pavicevic, that in a certain way the prime minister, and that is why the Assembly is responsible because he chose the government, influences the editorial policy, abolishes some shows. This is not acceptable, especially from a person who honors us and tells us of some honesty, academic, parliamentary, political, nor is it academic, political, or political, congratulating someone in such a way that in a private television, he has banned a show produced by a private network, and this is an author's private show. He expects the prime minister in a private television broadcast by private production, the author's private show of a particular author, to have the prime minister influence it. It is offensive and unacceptable, and you should, in accordance with Article 108, give a warning to Mr Pavicevic, since this has happened to him twice. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9599	Time. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I warned Mr Pavicevic, who at that time did not speak about the subject or was violating the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. Thank you. The People's MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, came forward in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Gasic, a respected guest from the Ministry, I believe that on two occasions a member of 112 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here, let me read, so that everything is clear to all those who follow this dialogue. "If the president of the National Assembly cannot hold order regularly at the session, he will set a break until the order is established." I believe that Mr Babić and Mr Risticevic just recently contributed to the fact that you cannot establish order in this National Assembly, as they reported to comment on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and then in their speeches they talked about some things that do not concern the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, Mr. Becic, that this whole dialogue was launched after I asked Mr. Gasic four questions, three of which concern the concrete members of the bill that we are talking about today, and the last question was – why did Mr. Vukic ban the show "Imprint of the Week"? I expect answers now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9601	Mr. Pavicevic, I'm not used to it, I don't think I should use what I was about to say. Former speakers Mr. Risticevic and Mr. Babic have just warned me that I should use Article 109 where the reminder is given to the MP. You've earned it several times today. I didn't do it, having respect for you as a MP and the opposition, but you're really gonna make me do it next time. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, they cannot, as vice president of the SNS parliamentary group, have their exposure to a different way than to start by referring to the dates discussed today in the National Assembly, in an extremely funny way, in a way that individual MPs are actually mocking the victims of both the Russian and Serbian people who fell for the liberation of not only Belgrade, but also some other parts of the Republic of Serbia, or other parts of the former SFRY. There was a very funny question here – what happened on October 16th and the military parade was scheduled for that date? I don't know why you're always nervous about DS when I'm talking, but I don't mind that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9603	Mr. Balsha, don't throw it away. I can't even hear from you what the speaker is saying, because you keep throwing in today, both you and Mr. Sutanovec. I really don't think it's right. Then I can't even hear what the speaker's been saying since you threw it away. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Speak nonsense.) ) I thank you for your correctness. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9604	Here, Mr. Sutanovac just told me to talk nonsense. Perhaps Mr. Sutanovec would be less... Maybe if you let me, you'd be less nervous if the National Assembly bought you a couple of plasma televisions, since you're known as the Plasma Shule.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9605	Mr. Martinovic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please do not address the MP directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9606	When Mr. Sutanovac was Minister of Defense, as I recall, he had to stand in a plasma television room in every villa room on Dedinj, and the people called him Shuki Plasma. That's not what I said. Maybe that's why he's nervous. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: now it does not stand.) You can threaten me, Mr. Shutanovac, to insult me. That doesn't bother me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9607	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, I repeat by who knows which way – do not utter threats from the bench and do not throw them to peoples who speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9608	So, in one funny way, there were talk of victims who fell for the release of Belgrade and Serbia and the question was what was important on 16 October 1944, so that the military parade was held on 16 October 2014. The Belgrade Liberation Operation lasted from 14 October to 20 October. So that operation lasted six days. What happened on October 16th? Fighting to liberate Belgrade from a German occupier was under way, and Belgrade was finally freed from the Germans on October 20th. The Serbian Progressive Party is extremely proud of the fact that the military parade will be held on October 16th in the wake of Belgrade's most hot fight for liberation. Here I must quote also one great priest of the Serbian people to the ruler Nikola Velimirovic. He said, "Whoever sees in the dates a blind fatality of the day, that fortune." Here some MPs were divulging, connecting October 16, 2014 with the fact that someone was born in Albania on October 16th or that someone was decapitated on October 16th. It has nothing to do with each other. This is all done in order to do more damage, not to the SNS, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia itself, and its citizens. On October 16th, the president of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin will attend the Republika Srpska and the military parade. For Serbia, for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the whole Serbian people, and I think for most Serbian citizens, that is an extremely important visit, it is a sign that Russia values and respects the principled policy of the Republic of Serbia, and we hope that this will be an introduction to a much greater economic co-operation between the two countries. Now let me go back to the bill. I will not talk about all the details of this bill because my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, spoke very closely about it, and I think she will use the rest of her time to say her final word, but that the citizens would not be in doubt and that any doubts about the deadlines for the request for import-export licences should be removed when it comes to arms and military equipment. I understand some who are not lawyers, so they speak up in their minds and tell the truth, but I don't understand some who are lawyers, so they don't know the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There's been a lot of words here about article 16. The draft law and that no deadlines have been defined in which the competent ministries should give their consent in the procedure of issuing import-export licences in respect of arms and military equipment. I must remind my fellow MPs, and above all the MPs of the former regime, that the procedure for issuing import-export licences for arms and military equipment is an administrative procedure. There is a law in the Republic of Serbia called the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law lays down deadlines for the issue of administrative acts, i.e. to give consent and opinions. That deadline is very precise, Mr. Minister, and it's 30 days old. It is not true what the former defence minister said that the competent ministries can wait, as he said, if I am not mistaken, for 10 years to give consent to an import-export licence. This is simply not true because they are bound by the terms of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, in Article 16(3), it states nicely and very clearly, if any of the authorities, or any of the competent ministries referred to in Article 1 of this Article do not give consent to the authorisation, the Government shall decide. Therefore, in no way can the process of issuing import-export licences last indefinitely, it cannot last 10 years or five years. Therefore, the permits will be issued within the legal time limits, i.e. in a way that can be done as quickly as possible. What I also want to say is that today's lessons to Mr. Gasic about how to run the Ministry of Defence, how great it was when someone else was the defence minister, were that these lessons were held by people who systematically destroyed the army of Serbia-Montenegro, or the Army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Gasic, I will tell you, simply remind you, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what happened during 2007, 2008 and 2009 at the Ministry of Defense, that is, what kind of abuses happened during that period, and all of what I'm about to say now are not my personal impressions, are not any of my personal knowledge or anything that I would like to transfer from some political craziness to someone. This is about statements by former Serbian Army Chief of Staff Lieutenant General Zdravko Ponos and this is about reports from the Ministry of Finance's internal audit, about what happened at the Ministry of Defence in 2007, 2008 and 2009. When you hear this, you will understand the character of people who are holding lessons and moral sermons with you today in 2014 about how you manage the Ministry of Defence or what the situation is in "Krusik", what is the situation in "The First Partizan" or what is the situation in the company "Jugoimport-SDPR". Lieutenant General Zdravko Ponos, he was otherwise removed from the post of Chief of Staff of Serbia, for those who forgot it in 2008, warned the public that the defence ministry's budget is being managed, quoted, uneconomically and unprofessionally, that the financial sustainability of the system is extremely controversial, and that 400 million dinars have been lost in the ease of ignoring the exchange rates. These are the words of Zdravko Pogoša, who was neither fit nor SNS nor any party from the current ruling coalition. An internal auditor's report from the finance ministry in June 2009 shows that during the acquisition of a mobile radio-relation system via, imagine, "Yugochemy AD", Serbia's budget was damaged by 12,745,230,23 dinars during one payment, and 259,331,786 dinars during the second payment. At the end of 2007, the Ministry of Defence and Mediation, respectively, contracted the import of equipment from the Israeli company Tadiran Communications' mobile system of radio and relay connections at the cost of $36,946,964 US dollars. The defence ministry paid 25% of the value of the contract at 17 hours and 52 minutes when the money was transferred to the Commercial Bank on 25 December 2007. Since the bank's working hours were already up and the payment was made in the dinar currency, buying foreign exchanges on the interbank market was done only the next day, and that is on the current course, instead of after the sale course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of payment, as otherwise foreseen by the contract. Now, Mr. Gasic, this is a quote from the financial ministry auditor's report, so it's not my word. As a result, there was a course difference of 12,745,230,23 dinars paid by the Ministry of Defence on 28 December 2007. In doing so, the Ministry of Defence could open an otherwise foreign exchange account at the National Bank of Serbia and make payments according to the National Bank of Serbia's course without losses in exchange for exchange rates. Which was only done in May 2008. The addition of the contract between "Yugochemy Ad" and the Ministry of Defence which was carried out on 24 September 2008, you remember for sure who was the Minister of Defence at the time, predicted that the equipment to be delivered in 2008 and 2009 would be paid, quoting the contract provision - by paying a 17 million unscathed advance, beware of the figures, from $17.992.189 US dollars by the end of September 2008, with the commissioner "Yugochemija" to deliver to the commander, i.e. The Ministry of Defence has closed quotes from the contract no later than 15 September 2008. Afterwards, the Ministry of Defence paid a request to the National Bank of Serbia, which was on 30 September 2008 to pay $17.992.189 from a foreign exchange account previously opened at the National Bank of Serbia. So much for the honesty and household management of the Department of Defense. Next, this isn't all, unfortunately. However, the ministry asked the National Bank of Serbia on 1 October 2008 for a refund of the previously paid 941.4m dinars because it is said, however, that the alleged commissionor Jugochemija failed to provide all necessary documentation for the purchase of foreign funds. Nearly a month later, on 29 October 2008, the Ministry of Defence issued a new payment order, and 1.2 billion dinars were transferred to the National Bank of Serbia this time. Again, according to the finance ministry's report, according to the US dollar rate increase, the Ministry of Defence has hired budget funds of 259,331,786 dinars, bigger than that payment was made on September 30th 2008, closed quotes from the interior auditor of the finance ministry, Mr Gasic. Furthermore, as a confidential purchase, the Ministry of Defence treated the purchase of 19 passenger vehicles for official use with additional light and sound signalling devices. Why? The former regime's representatives wanted to mark that they were powerful, they were strong, they were all out of their way. A confidential decision by the Defence Department since 1 September 2008 established the Commission and established the purchase value of 45560169,49 dinars, without VAT. The company "Porse" Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. Belgrade submitted an offer of 104.02.379,39 dinars from VAT for 19 vehicles stamps Audi A6 and Audi A8. The Department of Planning and Development of the Ministry of Defence then approved an increase in supply funds, and the defence minister made a decision approving car purchases at the price of 104.122.379,39 dinars. However, according to the Finance Ministry auditor, the purchase of passenger cars should not have been treated as confidential. These are all listed reports from the finance ministry that there would be no confusion. Furthermore, with special attention, the auditors devoted to the purchases of the so-called so-called ". Special purpose funds contracted by the Ministry of Defence. On this occasion, it was found that the procurement plans for the specific purposes for 2008 and 2009 were not passed within the legal deadlines. It's Mr. Gasic who's transferring you that there are no deadlines and you won't respect those deadlines. The acquisitions of complex combat systems and related services, as well as purchases or sales by the Defence Minister's decision are classified as state secret and as top secret, are entrusted to the public undertaking Jugoimport SDPR. According to the special purpose asset regulation, this company has the right to charge a commission of up to 1.5% of the value carried out, as well as to collect the actual costs incurred in the procurement process. The finance ministry auditors found that the defence minister did not adopt specific regulations defining the concept of a complex combat system. This is otherwise a quote from the Ministry of Finance's auditor's report -- a way of trusting procurement, a way of determining the commission rate of up to 1.5% of the value of the realised job and the kind of real costs to be paid to the Southport. Then you're having another affair. The affair is tied to an air-air-air missile explosion R27 via the South-Import SDPR company. With the military's 2008 equipment plan, the initially estimated purchase value of these missiles was 130 million dinars, to then correct the plan and increase the amount to 288640000 dinars. At that time, Yugoslavia agreed to purchase missiles with a Russian firm from Moscow at the price of nearly 360 million dinars, with all the corresponding costs, which is 70,368,820 dinars more than plannedly provided and approved funds in the budget. Look at the scale of the robbery at the Department of Defense at the time. The defence minister made a decision to make the procurement on December 4th 2008, and the same day the contracts were signed by the defence ministry and Southport. This is Mr. Minister History of the Robbery of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. Seven days later, on 11 December 2008, the defence minister made a decision amending an earlier plan of equipment and a general refurbishment of arms and military equipment for the 2008 defence system, thus allowing for the purchase of R27 missiles to increase 25,315,000 dinar budgets. The auditors found that the contract for the purchase of missiles was concluded before additional funds were provided in the budget, that for part of the 45 million 53 000 820 dinar contract, no increase in budget resources was granted at all, and that the disputed procurement of missiles was not implemented in accordance with the Regulation on special purpose funds. There's more. Public procurement control at the Ministry of Defence has shown that the Department of Supply of the Ministry carried out procurements and signed contracts with health institutions and pharmacies throughout Serbia despite the fact that the insurance provider of military insurance was a special trust that had the property of a legal person. In fact, the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance has not been authorised by the Ministry of Defence to carry out public procurement on its behalf as prescribed, that is, how it was then prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. So the Ministry of Defence's authority, according to the Internal Auditors of the Ministry of Finance, illegally and on their own centralised the purchases, while, beware, the drug suppliers' invoices were delivered for payment to the Fund. Therefore, contracts were concluded by the Ministry of Defence, and invoices were presented to the Military Insurance Fund. One more thing, Mr. Minister, just so you know, although I think these facts are familiar to you, the auditors have checked the way the Department of Defense in 2008 made purchases of apartments for official purposes, which was defined by the government's conclusion of 425 million dinars. Adverts for the purchase of apartments were published on two occasions in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", but no public procurement was made for this purchase. Now the quote from the Ministry of Finance's report -- since the apartments are good, that the purchase from the budget funds, and that the Ministry of Defence is a state body, is the subject of public procurement law, so it was the obligation to obtain the same ministries to carry out the procurement procedure in accordance with the law" at the end of the quote, the auditors concluded in their report. Here, Mr. Gasic, that's how things are when the Ministry of Defence led the DS, and when the Ministry of Defence led a man who from the bench today tells you that you have no idea how the Ministry of Defence is run, and that he was brilliantly managed by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army when, unfortunately, Serbian citizens performed that significant function. When you draw a line, and be careful, these are just the figures from 2007, 2008 and 2009, because of the lack of time, I cannot yet list what was in 2010 and what was in 2011, but from what we have so far brought forth, it is quite clear that you, Mr. Gasic, that before you, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as defence minister, was succeeded by the Ministry of Defence, which was absolutely devastated. The Serbian Progressive Party, the SNS parliamentary group, gives you full support in your efforts to revitalise the Ministry of Defence, to raise the battle closure of your army, because we know that this job is not a bit simple, given the fact that your predecessors, unfortunately, our own and unfortunately all Serbian citizens, have done these things as we have said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9609	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word is by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica to Mr Martinovic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9610	Speaking of quotes, July 25, 2011 says - I was called to move to SNS, but my answer was – no, because I am loyal to Vojislav Seselj. The transition to SNS would be an extremely cowardly move and turning his back on a man who in the dungeon struggles with superhuman efforts not only for himself but for all of Serbia. Mr. Martinovic, this is you. If you're telling me anything about morals, look in the mirror before you say anything. The fact is, you read the report. The auditor has the right to write criminal charges as well as other authorities, no one has received an application for what you're writing. It's true that there was a problem with the curative differences that can happen today. The Department of Defense doesn't treat curative differences, it's a thing that can happen. It is true that we spent more money on rockets because we bought twice as much, and now Mr. Gasic will have a chance when President Putin comes to ask him – which is why he decided that only one company and Russia can export rockets of type – air, so we had to switch to that company. You have a conversation on October 16th and an opportunity to ask him. What is a fact is that by insulting these stories about plasma televisions, you insult Mr. Gasic because he lives in the same house, which is not a villa, Mr. Gasic is currently living and has even more TVs because he has more children. I only have two sons, and he has three. What difference does it make? Today in the 21st century, we speak in the Serbian Parliament who has a TV in the nursery. You know, it's something that's at least rude, not to say rudely, and it's true that kids love television and have TV. To tell you the truth, I would never stop them. I'd separate myself if they got it. I mean, I understand. The frustration you have should be expressed in a different way, and we'll talk about it tomorrow about these amendments. Mr. Minister, since you have such strong support, and you are obviously the most talented of these colleagues, you answer the question I asked you – who flew with a helicopter to the sea? Tell us that we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9611	Time. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9612	The quote you made, Mr. Sutanovac, is quite accurate. So it's true that I said what you quoted. But I didn't, to quote Mr. Ponos, uneconomically and unprofessionally run the Department of Defense. I did not damage the state of Serbia by trading on the basis of course differences. I know your kids, like my kids, and everybody's kids love watching TV, but I guess those TVs didn't buy you. She bought the state of Serbia. Other citizens of the Republic of Serbia buy TVs from their wallets to their children. That's one big difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9613	Government Minister Bratislava Gasic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. The minister is so respected, he'll give you his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9614	I thank Mr. Secretary. I didn't have time to apologize to you today when you said I offended you. I don't know why, but I'm sorry. Mr. Gasic is a serious man. He'll tell you if I brought any TVs into the house that the Department of Defense bought, whether I bought the furniture at the expense of the Department of Defense or me and my family personally. What you're saying is the most miserable thing that's ever been said in this House. You can from the radicals, but the radicals from you never. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9615	Minister Gasic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected to arrive today and at the government, but apparently not. I want to answer you, Mr. Sutanovac. I only know one thing, that I found the house empty, that no one has lived in it for two years since you left. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I I know that the furniture, the televisions and everything else that was needed, and you were to see that, after the stories came out, I brought all the money I paid for with my personal money to the Serbian Army so that tomorrow someone who came after me could continue living in that house without having to change anything. It's not about the villa. It's a normal house. That controversy, as far as I'm concerned, shouldn't go any further. I want to answer these two questions. I can't answer your questions asked by your boss, Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Pavicevic, because it's simply not about the law and I don't want to compromise these questions. This fourth question of yours, knowing Mr. Alexander Vukic, I know that he's not afraid of any television show, that he's not afraid of any spoken public words, and my personal position is that he, I'm sure of that million percent, has nothing to do with it. So it's more of a political story for you to raise fire. As for Article 22, you said that it could happen that the next day the company that is withdrawn can register to a third party again and again do so. However, we have become and become a serious country, in which many things are known, what we care about, and our particular services, so it is impossible for that same trader to come and register it to his aunt from the King or anywhere. Secondly, you're using one very skillful situation today where it's a very confidential law and very confidential things, and you know that we can't get many things out in public, so now I need to explain to you how this service is controlling further, whether someone is going to abuse it and reregister the company to their aunt. As for Article 6, you've also made a very skilled relationship with the Double Purpose Act. Article 6 is about bans and technical assistance, it writes to you, which is what we want to prevent the sale of weapons of mass destruction. So these two things have absolutely no connection to the double-use list, because how can you get to the ban if you provide technical assistance to someone who sells goods, arms and military equipment among other things and for mass destruction? So, this law is good for Serbia's dedicated industry and will certainly encourage it. This law will regulate many of the things that we have had in the past when trafficking in military weapons is abuse, the political position of individual people and their ties that they had in some political environment at that time, and for the first time we will be in harmony absolutely with EU law and we will respect all other conventions when it comes to the export of arms and military equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9617	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9618	Dear colleague Becic, when you look at me like that, I don't know if I can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9619	Mr. Sutanovac, I looked at it because Borislav Stefanovic called, so I looked at you for it, where you're from.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9620	If I understand, you mentioned my name, not Borislava. I don't know where Borislav is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9621	He just got out. He checked out and got out of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9622	You're trying to distract me and I'm still running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9624	After a maestral appearance like this from a fellow SNS, I can't get those five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9625	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9626	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9627	I'm just explaining and answering the question you asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9628	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9629	Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9630	Dear Minister Gasic, I think the morning is smarter than the evening, I think. It's not good for you right now, I don't want to keep you very much, but we've submitted a number of amendments and I'm asking you to study these amendments well. I think this bad law can be done on a better path. I don't think this bill, as proposed, will help the Serbian defence industry, or the free economy that needs to generate certain revenues from it, and even less will help the exactly armed forces that you're leading. The way the law is conceived suggests that there is a dispersion of the government in Serbia, that there is a desire of the administration above all, because it is not the minister's business, for those who do not know it, it is not the job of ministers, I at least did not deal with, I do not know about you, that the processes that can slow Serbia's economic development are controlled. My wish and wish of the DS parliamentary group is that this does not happen, that things are clearly defined from beginning to end, that not all laws that exist in Serbia should be read so that someone can get their rights. On the other hand, if we don't derivate those people who may have circumstances today, they can't register their company as a registrar, but tomorrow they can fix it, and you have to wait two years to come back. They're companies that come here first of all to do business. This job is for those workers who are still in trouble today. I heard today that the fantastic situation is both in Krusik and in the flag and everywhere. I congratulate you. I'm in contact with these people almost every day, and it's far from fantastic, it's far from good. What's even worse is that it's a downward trajectory, but it takes a little time to figure it out. I hope tomorrow we have a discussion where we don't talk about who served the army and who didn't. I think that, Mr. Becic, you are obliged to warn Mr. Marijan Risticevic not to do this, because I know by circumstances who did not serve the army here. I don't think that was a subject for any moment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9631	Mr. Sutanovac, if you noticed, I wasn't the chairman when Mr. Risticevic spoke and when he said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9632	I think you've been here all day. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9633	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9634	Every time I look that way, you sit back and smile. So, our wish is to try to correct this bad law, which was proposed by the poor government, to put it into office and business and arms and the Republic of Serbia and the defence system. If you have a good will, I ask you, even though you feel bad, to take advantage of the time. I'm glad you said that, not that I didn't use state resources, but one spoon I never brought into the house where I lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9635	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Minister, I have another speaker. You want to answer? Yeah. ) The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the ban for two years, both in the previous law and in this one is clearly defined when a ban on importing or exporting weapons is imposed -- in the event of a violation of the arms embargo to certain countries that come out on the list. Although individuals throughout the day try to show that it would be an abuse of someone else, it is known when such a ban is imposed. Simply, to put one point, it's a two-year ban on those companies, and we had them in a series in the previous period, which tried to export over third countries to areas that were affected by the war, and it absolutely refers to that part. It is known when and how that ban is imposed. As for the questions about Krusik and the flag, no, I didn't say there was a great situation there today either. There is still a difficult situation there today, but after the huge losses that have been made in Krusik for 10 years we finally came to a positive line and year by year I think that this profit will grow there and that people and workers will be more and more satisfied. To give you information and workers in Krusik, we just received approval last week from the Commission of the Government for New Employment in Valjevo, in the "Krusik" industry itself, of 150 new workers. That's a good result. As for the flag, and today I've been very sharp about it, it's the biggest tax debtor in Serbia right now. Someone in the previous period allowed them not to pay taxes and contributions, which takes, not one year, not two, but 12 years. It's the same factory where the unions went into our warehouses and locked themselves up when they wanted to strike. And I'm not surprised you're listening to them. We want to have a stable factory in Kragujevac, which has a good production program, that there are no problems with the blacksmith, which is now going into bankruptcy, which has also been privatised and has not been conducted in the previous period whether these two factories need each other. Of course it's not good, but all seven companies, except the flag, have a positive business. No one can argue with that. Of course, we can influence, and you know perfectly well that we can influence. We're on boards. When I say to me, I don't mean politicians, I don't mean members of the SNS, I mean officers of the Serbian Army who, as a function, have an obligation to be on the supervisory boards to control the functioning and legality of the work of these companies. No one from any SNS municipal board, but from the Department of Defense officers who are in charge of that part. I'm not talking about the period until 2012, I've been talking about it since 2012. We don't talk and we can't affect those business results. We can help them be part of my delegations when I go to bilateral visits in some countries, to some official visits, when we can, as if you would ask me what it is I've agreed on, well, there's a defence technology ministry in Azerbaijan, which also talks to the defence minister about these new contracts. I think we've made this part clear, too, what a ban it is, and when it's a clear ban, it's clear to all of you. Once again, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9637	I thank the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Gasic. A representative of the SNS, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9638	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we had occasion today in the debate to hear a series of insults addressed to Mr. Minister, but this is the weight of the job, you have to face those who simply didn't deserve to talk about a topic. What is important is that, as a minister, never again allow the tanks to melt like old iron, to be sold for twice the amount of foreign mediators, that the procedure for selling military equipment and weapons is carried out without any procedure regulated by law. That is what will certainly bring order after this law, but what will feel Serbia's budget. We are with this legislative proposal, as SNS, showing one great responsibility, first of all, to establish a certain political stability with this law. On this basis, the most important part is that there is an end-user in the import and export of weapons. This part is the most important, just to prevent all possible malfeasances in this sector, but to meet all international obligations towards conventions, as a member of the UN, as a country that respects all decisions of the Security Council, which respects OSCE recommendations and EU legislation. What is important is that this regulation of procedures simply regulate a large part of trade policy, but we also get the practical opportunity to develop in economic terms through the practical increase in business activities of the dedicated industry, but also through the development, modernisation of Serbia's Army. This is also of great importance today, the practical moment of adoption, i.e. the proposal of this law, should lead Serbia in a new direction, in which these new technologies, which the opposition advocates, are not under the patronage of the Ministry of Defence, there is no possibility of giving consent at all. We simply get as one great weight that all innovations and all the opportunities that are opening up to us in modernization, in general weapons, are part of the Serbian brand, i.e. Serbian engineers actively participate in the job. All great forces know that we as Serbia have always been like the state that played a very important role in this business, regardless of what a small country we are, but everyone respected us. The time has come for us to earn this respect somewhere again, precisely because in one extremely responsible way you are leading and this Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia includes in the work of all other ministries that nothing will be kept secret, that only one man and only one ministry will in some way make such purchases, as we had by Mr Martinovic, who gave us a lot of information based on an auditor's analysis. On this basis, you can see that there is a fundamental difference between the policy that was until 2012 and the policy that simply from 2012 to today. I'll tell you that I have some information about the recycling industry, about industrial waste, that the SNS found 200 tanks of N55 and that it was over 500 when the Serbia Army was formed. From that moment on, sales start and military equipment, which was at some fixed price of $11,000 per tank. And when the SNS came, that sale was made by commission and for every tank, the estimated price that ranged from $13,000 to $26,000 was estimated. It means that it was taken into account the condition and the manner in which the remonts were carried out. If you put in a fixed price for every tank and raced to sell what could be sold, the prices of such tanks were up to $26,000 abroad, and the rest went to Mitrovica, where they were bought for $260 a ton. I mean, they slaughtered ox for a pound of meat. All in all, they may have earned about 5m euros, in gray flows, and if you had only 100 tanks of new ones produced and sold for a real price, you would have revenue in the budget for over two billion dollars. I want to tell you what an irresponsible policy looks like when a minister who simply deals with himself looks like and simply disintegrates the property of the Army of Serbia, and what it looks like when you deal with it extremely responsibly and when you think about waiting for a parade and one of the presidents of the great state who will be 16 and having something to show. I hope that with the adoption of this law, regardless of the amendments that will be, that simply Serbia will start out of the area and trade and defence one new way and that this path will surely bring prosperity to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-02-0.u9639	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the agenda. Tomorrow we will continue to work at 10.00 hours, according to the amendments to the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Djordje Milicevic, Dr. Dijana Vukomanovic, Miroslav Markicevic, Gordana Comić, Meko Omerović and Branko Djurović. Dear People's MPs, having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish a mandate for the MPs in the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Branko Jankovic, Dragan Poloni and Goran Mladenovic, elected from the election list "Alexandar Vukic – The Future in which we believe, SNS, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the SPO and the Movement of Socialists. “ On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Branko Jankovic, Dragan Pololina and Goran Mladenovic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful work in the current term of office. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC AUTHORITY. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that I'm in charge of a search into the details of the motions of the law in point. On the 1st and 2nd agenda, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Željko Sertic, Minister of Industry and Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, called on the meeting to attend: Radmila Jagodic, Assistant Minister of Finance Irina Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance Dr Predrag Đukić, Coordinator in the system of financing of health care, Dr Tatjana Bajic-Zivić, Director of the Health Development Project Serbia and Jelena Parezovic, Media Advisor of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Gover. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Vesna Martinović, Borislav Stefanović, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Slobodan Homen, Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
