ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12416	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My question is for the president of the National Assembly. Serbia marked Belgrade's release with a military parade, a significant event for our country. So, October 21st, it's State Holidays Day of Remembrance of Serbian Victims in World War II. This assembly passed a declaration of conviction in Srebrenica. Also, we adopted a declaration of condemnation of crimes committed against members of the Serb people and citizens of Serbia during the 1990s and expressed solidarity with the victims of NATO aggression. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, numerous NGOs, associations, historians, writers, directors, etc., ignore, silence or falsify anything bad that happened to Serbian citizens with the arrival of new authorities in 1944 and 1945 with the introduction of dictatorship, the violent abolition of the multi-party system. As Serbia is a member of the Council of Europe, Resolution 1481 of 25.1.2006 established the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as necessary for the international condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes and measures to remove the legacy of former total communist regimes. The resolution found that totalitarian communist regimes, which ruled Central and Eastern Europe, were all without exception marked by serious human rights violations. The violations included individual and mass killings, executions, dying in concentration camps, starving, deportation, torture, slave labor and other forms of mass physical terror, violations of freedom, conscience, thoughts, expression of freedom of the press, lack of pluralistic system. The crimes are justified on behalf of the theory of class struggle and the principles of the dictatorship of proletariats. My question – will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, be determined according to everything that has happened to the citizens of Serbia, because Serbia is unfortunately still filled with mass graves today in which people who are most often convicted without trial, innocent victims who have been removed because they are considered harmful to the construction of a new order that was thought to be the order of prosperity, and history has shown otherwise? It is legitimate to remove people who are considered harmful to the construction of a new society, and as such enemies of totalitarian communist regimes. The most common perpetrators of these crimes were not brought to trial, so the public is very weak awareness of the proportions of the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. History awareness is one of the preconditions for avoiding similar crimes in the future. Moral assessment and condemnation of crime play an important role in the education of young generations. In our opinion, in the Council of Europe's view, all victims of totalitarian communist regimes and their families deserve compassion, understanding and recognition of their own suffering. The assembly called on post-communist countries to examine the history of communism and their own past, to clearly distance themselves from the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes and unequivocally condemn them. It is believed that a clear condemnation of the communist crime will pave the way for further reconciliation with the hope that all this will encourage historians around the world to continue and strengthen research aimed at identifying and objective confirmation of what happened. Since we have several times initiated that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe, bring one such declaration, my question to you, President of the Assembly, will you, as president of the Assembly, initiate us to do what our obligation is to all innocent victims and what is the recommendation of the Council of Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12417	I thank you, MP. One part, I have to admit, I wasn't able to hear the exposure, a little bit because of the MPs, a little bit of bad sound. I'm afraid I can't speak from this position of my own. I would like to have a discussion with all the heads of Parliament on the subject and a concrete text of the declaration to the parliament. Of course I'll put it on the agenda. I will be very happy to support every quality text in that direction by voting on my own. We have the Council of Europe's basic declaration. This could be a good basis for making a quality declaration that will be found in front of our parliament. Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12418	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Namely, what is the subject of my question? As early as 2008, the Ministry of Health adopted a Strategy on the Development of Palitative Treatment and Diverentology in the Republic of Serbia, where certain institutions that should be at the primary level are both secondary and territorial. According to the Strategy, and based on the structure, pathology of the population and the burden of the House of Health in Nis, the City Assembly made the right decision and at the secondary level at the clinical center was opened in 2013 and the city government, i.e. The city's larger proposal to open the Gerontology Centre for Paliatical Care was addressed to Assembly 12. 04. In 2012, where the City Assembly decided in September, it adopted the Strategy and joined the search for space for the Paliatical Care and Gerontology Centre and chose V.D. Director after the elections, Dr. Costa Todorovic, our colleague from Nis. In February 2013, a complete personnel plan and complete documentation were submitted for the establishment of the centre at the primary level, with a complete lab and all documentation needed to form such an institution in the town of Nis. I note that this center that needs to be opened in Nis has entered the grid plan. Since 2013, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Health have not moved one millimeter in that direction. I insist that I be answered when the city of Nis and the environment will finally get that center, which belongs to it, and I note that everything that is a problem, which was meant to solve local self-government and what was next to it, was done a year and a half ago. The second question is the same for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, which refers to the specializations we talked so loudly and sharply about here a few months ago. It's about deficit specializations in Serbian healthcare. We received a circulatory document sent by the ministry, which says: “This decision complements the Decision setting out the area of deficited medical branches for which a healthcare professional can be referred to specialization after the completed traineeship and the professional examination. “ A specialization is added from one branch of medicine – pediatrics. What does this document say? The document says that two documents given by Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, as health minister, and that, in order not to waste much time now, there are 14 specializations listed as deficits, only extended for one specialisation. And that would be fine if it didn't make any fundamental difference. Ms. Slavica, while serving as minister, agreed to specializations without two years of working experience for the staff of doctors at the request of an institution that lacks the specialisation. What is now the health minister has signed is specializations based on an analysis of the Institute of Public Health, which should be done, at the level of Serbia as a whole, for doctors who are on the bureau without working experience. We're doing double damage. First of all, we share specialization by heart, no analysis. Secondly, we put people who work in institutions where the deficits of certain specializations are subordinated, because they work and they're not on the bureau. So please, since there are a lot of my colleagues here and they understand perfectly well, I don't have enough time to elaborate what I'm saying, to put pressure on your parties so that they don't do any damage and not share the specials as deficitary, for what there's no need to do. One classic example is the Niški Clinical Center, where specialization should be given to a neurosurgery specialist, and four should be without analysis and without any consultation of the Institute of Public Health from Nis. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to put pressure on yourself and make it fit, so you don't do any damage to Serbian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12419	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12420	Dear presidents, respected Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I have one question. The answer to that question is that I think a good number of Serbian citizens will be interested. I ask the question to the National Bank of Serbia, or to the services or persons in charge of the NBS – are they able to deliver a list of legal and physical persons to the National Bank of Serbia, as well as to all other colleagues working with us here, and I think to the public of Serbia, if it exists, who have received money from the primary show since 1990 until today? I don't think I should explain too much, but within these five minutes, I'm going to say a few words. We all remember well in the '90s, inflation, and how some of today's great businessmen, by quotes, people say – tycoons, have become rich. I remember correctly that the official mark course at one point was five things, five dinars, and 30th Street. People were then told that some people and some groups of people were privileged and received money from the primary show, sold it on the street several times more and plus, even more so, in a few days, weeks or months, they returned money to the National Bank of Serbia. So I think what I said is enough because of the motives that I'm asking this question. If we live in such a difficult time, if we are all forced and more or less we have a consensus here in parliament among all parliamentary groups that it must be saved, that unfortunately we must retire and pay to be reduced to come to the green branch for some year and that this people would finally start living normally, I think it's time for this data to be delivered to the public and to the citizens of Serbia, in order to know. I believe, therefore, I am convinced, I would not ask this question, that these data exist in the NBS and that, both the New Serbia Parliament Club and the public should come up with this information, after which many things will be clearer to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12421	Thank you. Are there any more reported? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12422	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, when it comes to Serbia's recovery from the May floods, we have several suggestions and several questions to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia would like concrete answers. I have here several statements from officials, both the Government and the Director of the Office for Reconstruction and so does the President of Obrenovac Municipality, about how and how the flood recovery is going. What is very important to know, repeat and underline – Serbian Prime Minister said in 19/08 that the overall reconstruction, both Obrenovac and other parts of Serbia, is going as planned. Minister Mihajlovic said in 07.08.2014 that the whole job will be completed by the beginning of the heating season and that everyone whose houses have been destroyed in floods will have completed their houses by the first day of autumn. After that, on June 23rd, Office Director Marko Blagojevic said that the final assessment of the flood damage would be until July 9th and that the whole deal would be completed by the start of autumn. I would also remind Krupanj, Paracin, of the Smederjevska Palank, of all further statements made by officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia in late June, in early July, throughout August and September. What's concrete is that the whole business has stopped somewhere. He started very late. We didn't have finished and renovated houses until the beginning of the fall. Citizens can't expect to even winter in their homes. We have a particular problem in Obrenovac which is huge scales, the houses have not moved away and their reconstruction beyond the foundation and many roofs have failed to restore the paid support of the Serbian government's 250,000 dinars. A man contacted the DS Parliament Club yesterday and said he was able to rebuild the bedroom and living room in Obrenovac, but not the kitchen and bathroom. Most of the house with its hosts can't be finished for 250,000 dinars. Not to mention the "Jovan Jovanovic Dragon" elementary school, because we already had a few major malversions there. It's fortunate that the perpetrators were caught, but all this casts a shadow of all those promises made by government officials and the director of the Office for Reconstruction, Marko Blagojevic, when these accidents hit Serbia. I will remind you that only in Obrenovac tenants, 150 families, are not covered at all by the rebuilding system, that the government has come up with some proposal that only one rent will be refunded that amounts to the monthly price of housing in other people's homes. Then, tenants in most cases do not live in their homes and apartments where they lived even before this accident. Two thousand small entrepreneurs in Obrenovac alone didn't get a single dinar of help, not one single dinar, there are four to five thousand people. When it comes to Parachin and other flooded areas, over 100 small and medium-sized enterprises are not covered by the recovery plan and have not received any single aid dinars. Several thousand Serbian citizens also work there. We also wanted to point out the appeal solutions sent to the office director and the government of the Republic of Serbia, out of 450 appeal solutions in Obrenovac only 80 were respected. The rashes in Obrenovac are being repaired, very slowly. We had a statement from the president of the municipality and the director of the office that they would be completed within the scheduled time limit, which is far from that, in a much worse position of the dikes than they were before the accident that hit the Republic of Serbia in May. So I want to ask concrete questions and that three – why is the reconstruction not completed within the promised deadline? The second question I want to ask is: Why is the renewal not completed within the promised deadline? And the third question I would like to ask Mark Blagojevic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why the reconstruction is not completed within the promised deadline and we are asking for the resignation of Marko Blagojevic as director of the Office and of all the authorities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12423	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12424	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since there has been speculation in public about how the NBS works, besides the dinar course being relatively stable, which is inflation at an unremembered low level, I can say in record terms. As it is speculated that there is a loss of NBS that is accounting rather than structural loss and loss that does not pay Serbian citizens through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the NBS makes up for it through its way of doing business. However, since the NBS is a very important institution for the functioning of the financial system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the financial market in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to ask several questions to the governor of the NBS, which is – what is the total cost of solving the Agrobank case? When did external auditors first give an opinion with a reserve on the Agrobank financial report and when did the NBS determine that? Is it true that the costs are increased by the establishment of a bridge bank called the new Agrobank, and if it is true that the costs are higher and what are they? Is it true that a member of the Agrobank Management Board, Mr. Zvonko Nikezic, has been given the consent of the NBS even though he has been convicted of commercial offences? Was then Governor Dejan Šoškovic warned in writing or verbally by professional services that there are legal obstacles to the NBS' consent to his appointment? I ask the governor to answer these questions as soon as possible because there are speculations that the illegal business has done damage to the Republic of Serbia of 72 billion dinars. The cost of subsequent damage per year and total to date, paid by the NBS to the workers illegally fired in the period 2001 to 2009 and the number of illegally fired were returned to work because someone did not like what they did in the NBS, was fired from the NBS. Let's see how much the NBS is paying for the damage and the damage that the NBS has to do with its financial report. What are the total costs of making personal documents, vehicle documents, license plates and the like in the last four years? Are the costs reduced over the previous two years and if they are by how much? The difference for reduced costs ended up in someone's pocket. I'd like the investigative organs to investigate in which pocket and in whose pocket? What is the value of the procurement to the Bureau for the production of bills implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, and what is the value of the purchase without the application of the Public Procurement Act in this year or previous year compared to 2010, 2011? Is the transparency of purchases in these purchases previously treated as favourable and confidential public procurement? The difference probably ended up in someone's pocket again, so I'm asking the investigative authorities to investigate in whose pocket?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12425	Thank you. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Borisav Kovacevic, Dr Diana Vukomanovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Sinisa Maksimovic and Olena Papuga. We'll continue at 13.00 hours for two reasons. One reason is there's no direct transmission again. We'll wait, there's a conference of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. I think parliament must still have direct television transmissions. It can't be repeated every day. The second reason is for the minister who is authorized today to finish talks with one of the defence ministers who is now visiting him. We have a promise that this will also be over by 13.00 hours. We just need to meet the conditions for work. [[after breaks]] We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on proposals for legislation from the agenda according to points 4 and 5. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representative of Ivica Dacic's first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic, good day of the Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice and Bratislav Gasic, I called for today's session to be attended by the Ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Goran Matic, Director of the Office of National Security and Protection of Secret Information, and Zlatko Petrovic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Justice. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search and I am asking the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, which most groups have already done. Therefore, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law on the confirmation of the arms trade agreement, the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Does the defence minister, Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12427	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, the draft law before you confirms the arms trade agreement adopted by the UN General Assembly on 2 April 2013. As the first international document, which in a comprehensive way regulates the issue of exports of imports, transit, cargo and intermediation, i.e. the transfer of conventional weapons. The preparations and negotiations themselves for the adoption of this Treaty lasted seven years and it also represents the first multilateral agreement, which defines among other things the principles and criteria for the export of arms, which are in accordance with international law and relevant international obligations in the area. The arms trade agreement was adopted in accordance with Article 26. The United Nations Charter, establishing, preserving peace and security in the world, while its content has been elaborated in accordance with the Commission's guidelines for disarmament regarding international arms transfers adopted by the General Assembly since 6 December 1991. The arms trade treaty is the result of the engagement of a large number of UN Member States, to adopt a legally binding international document, which in a comprehensive way regulates the principles, criteria and prohibitions to be managed by the States, when granting exports, imports, transit, cargo and intermediation, or all relevant issues related to the transfer of arms, as well as types of arms, to which the agreed principles and criteria relate. The adoption of the arms trade agreement was actively supported by EU Member States. So far, the contract has been signed by 121 states, and ratified by 54, noting that 50 states are required to ratify it. Almost all the countries in our neighbourhood, except BiH, have not ratified the arms trade agreement. The Republic of Serbia signed this contract on 12 August 2013. This Treaty regulates the categories of arms covered by the prohibitions, criteria, which each country takes into account when making export decisions, as well as other issues related to the transfer of arms. One of the objectives of the adoption of the arms trade contract is to reduce, as far as possible, illegal arms trade. This Treaty also regulates the issue of transit, mediation and rerouting, all with the aim of preventing illegal arms trafficking that is taking on alarming conditions in the world. The signing, or ratification of the arms trade agreement for the Republic of Serbia, does not create a new obligation in relation to existing legislation, as it has in all our legislation brought into line with modern standards and policies applied in the area of export arms control, or EU standards. The arms trade treaty fundamentally codifies the principles and criteria for the export of weapons, which are defined in the EU Code of Conduct, which the Republic of Serbia joined on 3 December 2008 and international control of export arrangements for which membership has applied or intends to do so. I would like to remind you that, in this respect, the Law on imports and exports of dual-use goods, November 2013 and the recent Law on the Export and Import of Arms and Military Equipment, which are fully in line with the principles and standards of the EU, as well as the relevant obligations created under this Treaty. The basic principles on which this contract is based are the following – the natural right of all states to individual and collective self-defense, as provided for in Article 51. The Charter of Un, i.e. respect for the legitimate interest of states to obtain conventional weapons, to exercise the right to self-defense and for peace operations, as well as to produce, export, import and transfer conventional weapons. By resolving international disputes peacefully, not endangering international peace, security and justice, as referred to in Article 2. The UN Charter, abstention from the threat of force, that is, the use of force in international relations against territorial integrity or political independence, of any state or in any way incompatible with UN objectives, as referred to in Article 2. UN Command. Non-mixing issues which are essentially subject to internal jurisdiction, any State, as referred to in Article 2. The UN Charter, respect and security of respect for international humanitarian law in line with, among other things, the 1949 Geneva Convention, as well as respect and security of human rights in accordance with, among other things, the UN Charter and the General Declaration of Human Rights. The responsibility of all states, in accordance with their international obligations, to effectively regulate international trade in conventional weapons, prevent its abuse, and that it is the primary responsibility of all states, to establish and implement their internal control system and to apply this Treaty in a consistent and objective manner, without discrimination. The Republic of Serbia is one of the major exporting producers of the product of the dedicated industry, and the signing and ratification of the arms trade contract, the Republic of Serbia will further strengthen its total administrative and other capacities in this area. In this way, it will be included in a group of those countries that carry out their international obligations, when it comes to the transfer of conventional weapons, thus confirming that policy, objectives and EU standards are followed in this area. The Republic of Serbia is in a phase of regulating its status in international export control arrangements. On 30 April 2013, the procedure was completed and the status regulated in a prestigious international export control arrangement, a group of nuclear suppliers, whose status became 49 members. The status regulation process is under way in a prestigious bazaar arrangement, which was submitted in 2009. The Republic of Serbia plans to apply soon for membership regulation and other control arrangements, such as the Australian group, the ZIGER Committee and the missile control regime. The regulation of status in these international export arrangements is of particular importance, as it is one of the obligations, in the process of negotiations with the EU. Following the adoption of the arms trade contract, intensive diplomatic activities have begun to prepare for its application after the entry into force. Several countries have already submitted official bids for the future secretariat of the contract's seats, and some have run for their representatives for future posts, the head of the secretariats, are also taking part in parallel activities to train the parties for its application. The Republic of Serbia wants to be part of these significant international activities for what conditions will be opened to participate in full capacity after the National Assembly adopts the Law on Confirmation of the arms trade contract. As regards the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain was signed in Madrid on 13 March 2014. It is a general agreement concluded by the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act and good bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Spain, in agreement with the organisation of the North-Atlantic Pact on the security of information and the Code of Conduct of 1 October 2008, and with the EU on security procedures for the exchange and protection of classified information and crisis management since 26 May 2011, which has been confirmed by the National Assembly. According to NATO and EU documents governing this area, the basic preconditions for co-operation in the area of exchange and protection of classified information are: that the other state has institutional capacity, or one authority responsible for implementing a national policy used by the term "national security authority", and that the national secret data protection policy is defined through national legislation that will regulate all areas in the protection of classified information, and that the establishment of a registry system for the storage and handling of classified information. The adoption of the data confidentiality law and the establishment of the National Security and Security Office in the Republic of Serbia have met the preconditions for co-operation in the field of exchange and protection of classified information. The agreements of this kind have been concluded so far with the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Bulgaria, BiH, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Macedonia. The bilateral relations with the Kingdom of Spain with which diplomatic relations were established in 1916 are very good and characterized by intense political dialogue. The main segments of the two countries' overall co-operation are high levels of police co-operation, good military co-operation and economic co-operation below the two countries' economic potentials. The Kingdom of Spain actively supports the Republic of Serbia in the European integration process. It stands for the view that the Republic of Serbia deserves to get the start of membership negotiations because it has proven its commitment to dialogue, respected the agreements reached, implemented reforms and contributed to the establishment of good neighbourly relations in the region. It represents the principled non-recognition position of the so-called "The countries of Kosovo", as members of the EU and NATO, voiced concern over the support of the EU institutions and Euro-Atlantic structures to the institutions of the so-called. The Republic of Kosovo. As part of co-operation in defence and military co-operation, a memorandum of understanding was confirmed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Madrid on 9 March 2009. The most significant co-operation has been achieved under a UN multi-national operation in the Republic of Lebanon, which is the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, currently participating with 141 members within the Spanish contingent. Police co-operation is based on an agreement on police co-operation in the area of the fight against crime. The Spanish side is interested in improving co-operation in this area through the realisation of a series of activities such as the work of a mixed commission, scientific and police co-operation, tweeting projects, border control and better use of EU funds. With that insight by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, they launched an initiative to establish co-operation with the authorities responsible for the protection of classified information in the Kingdom of Spain, in order to conclude an agreement that would regulate the area of exchange and protection of classified information. The official initiative for co-operation with the Spanish side was launched in June 2012, and a final agreement on the start of co-operation was reached in early 2013, when the Spanish side offered a draft agreement. During the negotiations, national legislation is mutually presented in the field of exchange and protection of classified information, organisations, authorities' competence in the field of protection of classified information in all its segments. The subject-mattered agreement defines classified information which is subject to exchange, competent authorities, confidentiality codes, security certificates, means of use, multiplication, destruction and transfer of classified information as well as other general issues. The conclusion of this agreement will contribute to the improvement of bilateral co-operation with the Kingdom of Spain in the security sector, joint action against challenges, risks and threats, the co-operation of state authorities in the areas of internal affairs, justice, external affairs, defence and security services. Also, conditions will be created for the co-operation of all state authorities with economic operators from another country whose business relates to the area of the dedicated industry, the production of goods and the provision of services for the needs of the security sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expect you to vote these two laws in voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12428	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of political groups, want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go. (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: E... )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12429	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament who cast my name, I respect you regardless. First of all, I want to say that DS will support both bill proposals. We consider both proposals to be meaningful, good for our country and our defence industry above all, but also good for the confidentiality agreement that we exchange because we think it's a way to not only tell some of ours, so-called. "secrets", but to come to an opportunity with a serious state like Spain to exchange information that is of general interest not only to Serbia and Spain, but to say the whole world as well. The fact that we are together in a large peace mission in Lebanon tells us that we have a high degree of understanding of our armed forces and Spanish and that's something that's very good. My exposure will focus on weapons as such, I think there is a great mysticism, even in parlamentary and among the citizens of Serbia, and I think we are obliged to do this mystic today if we can demystify in one piece and finally say what Serbia is doing, what interests, since when does it date? The arms and military equipment factories that were formed in then-Yugoslavia after World War II and before that were an expression of the need for the armed forces of the then Yugoslavia, primarily for the sake of their country's defence and there was no intention at that time to sell these weapons, military equipment. Until the 1990s, Yugoslavia was part part of it and Serbia was involved in production and complex pine systems. The then-Yugoslavia produced in a corporation with Romania even a fighter plane. It's been known to be one big supersonic plane project that unfortunately didn't live, and then we get into a situation in the 1990s when because of sanctions, which due to the devastated economy, practically arms exports and military equipment is being suspended, and production remains only within our country. Finally in 1999 due to the bombing, all factories largely devastated, except for "The First Partizan" in Užica, which has been within one mountain since the 40s last century, which saved her, but because of this very space, the factory suffers problems and I believe that there will be enough reason and reason to help that factory get out of this so-called. "holes" as they also call it, the "First Partizan" factory to be and continue to be what it is, which is, in fact, a leader in production primarily of ammunition in the whole Balkans and we believe it may be wider. What Serbian citizens should know is that Serbia was declared the fourth in the world to be transparent of the data on arms exports by the Institute for International and Development Studies from Geneva in 2010. Only Switzerland, Great Britain and Germany were ahead of us. So, there is no big mystery when we talk about arms trafficking, military equipment, at least when it comes to Serbia, and I think for a while now, and I can say that this is a long time period, Serbia has not come under the influence of the UN or individual EU countries, above all because it respects all the international rules and all those obligations that exist. What's a fact, and I'm going to show that because these days it's quite popular to show a variety of diagrams, I'm going to ask the camera if it can zoom in, these are about the years that were up to 2007. We dropped more than 50 million dollars to 35 in 2007 to start an extremely large and live diplomatic activity, to come to some average almost 250 million dollars. This is information that's available to everyone in the public, this is no secret, and I think it's one maximum if we count on what it is to be our production. At that time, when we had that 250 million, we had no so-called technology transfer option, or the first major contracts that occurred after that time, at the end of 2011, they began to work, concerning large contracts in Algeria, in Azerbaijan, which are contracts that do not include only our products, but also include products that are embled in Serbia and are later installed in those countries. I think I need to distract a few sequences that exist as a problem. The other day I was saying that there was a big experiment going on here, and this experiment was started in 2012, which is an experiment in the management of public finances that damaged a large part of public institutions, and what I particularly cared about, I think we also damaged the Ministry of Defense. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and later confirmed through the Law on the Budgetary System, that practically all the institutions and institutions in the Republic were deprived of their own income and that these own revenues go to the budget of the Republic of Serbia virtually made it impossible to further develop our urban industry which was, I say, the engine, when we talk about development, and I mean, above all, the Military and Technical Institute which unfortunately no longer has its own income and because of these own incomes, are lagging and having a lot of problems. What does that mean? This means that, for example, in some past period, they were performing a service in the famous supersonic wall that exists in VTI, charging that service, and that money remained VTI, which was later re-invesitrated at the Military Technical Institute. They don't do that service today, because that money no longer stays inside the VTI, and the costs would be borne by the VTI. I think it's one of those segments that are problematic, and I'd ask you to rebalance, or in next year's budget, if you have influence, and I believe you have, Mr. Minister, I've achieved that impact, to try to return your own income to everyone in the defense system, especially the VTI that has been working today on the development of the greatest piece of weapons and military equipment that has appeared on our Parade, which was held before the 10-akdan. When I say this, I speak very meaningfully. If it hadn't been for these mistakes, I don't think that that day and the drone "The Sparrow" and the drone "Pegaz" and the new field vehicle from Kragujevac would have been just like the models shown on that Parade, but would have been overrun, recorded and shown the possibility of our drones, because that day you had the opportunity to show all those military envoys who were present what is the range and domain of our defence industry and to finally and step out of Serbia and to offer these products beyond our country's borders. What's important is to say and I think that perhaps the key to the success of returning our defence industry to the world market is to understand that weapons are to a good extent a political product. Serbia today exports arms and military equipment from Indonesia to America. Few Serbian citizens know that America is also a large buyer of our products, but there are also traditional buyers such as the Middle East, Africa, with whom we maintain long-term, political, diplomatic, friendly relations. In 2007 and later in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, we had to come to the possibility of having this big leap in the sale and production of our weapons and military equipment, first of all we had to do a serious diplomatic activity and make sure that with the highest statesmen of these countries, we were talking about both Iraq and Algeria and Azerbaijan, making such an atmosphere that they were finally the customers they used to be. I know you've had a chance to visit Azerbaijan. I think that in these two and a half years from the position of defence minister, it is a big deal, but also a small matter in relation to the possibilities that were present, because unfortunately neither Minister Vukic nor Minister Rodic paid great attention to the work. I know Minister Vukic was in Angola. I know the whole story and the hospital that was supposed to be there. I know a story about a cornerstone. But, unfortunately, it's not in the realization phase, and I think you have to realize that this is one job where a very small percentage is successful. We're reading in the media these days how our defence industry is recording an extremely large growth in the bargaining process. It's a story that's a pandemic story about how we have a huge drop in unemployment in Serbia. If Serbian citizens move out, we will have an even greater drop in unemployment. A deal in this business without realisation means nothing. What Serbian citizens are interested in, and above all, factory workers is how much will be realized, will this realization follow the trends that occurred from 2008 to 2012 or will these trends be from 2012 to today, which is a reduction – a reduction in realisation, a reduction in the number of employees and structural problems that we are entering and, unfortunately, we haven't come out of since the 1990s? Personally, I believe that the government is Serbia, and the one I was in before me, so don't have a dilemma at all, didn't fully understand the needs of the Serbian defence industry, the industry that is already over 90% export-oriented. None of the finance ministers heard it was one of the industries to invest in, not because these people needed money to just work, but because the industry was destroyed in 1999. In order to be able to count on it more seriously, it is necessary to invest money. In 2011, we tried, and I expect you to continue, to start production in another way. At that time, factories in “First Partizan” and special lines in “Freedom” Cačak and blacksmithy were launched in “Krisik” and many things. I'm saying this because yesterday we had two laws on which we had a bile debate and where most decided to cut pensions and pay the citizens of Serbia who work in the public sector. The public sector in Serbia is also the Serbian defence industry. Practically, as of November 1st, these small salaries of defence workers, which are export-oriented, will have an even lower salary of about 10%. I think that's something that you need to find a way to ignore it, and you can only do that if you increase the volume of production, and you can only do that if you increase your diplomatic activities so that our weapons and our products can be found outside our country's borders, bought by those customers who have traditionally respected our production today. It is very good that after 2012, the government has adopted our initiatives concerning the further accession of the EU. I would like to remind you that just before 2012, the first peacekeeping mission in which we participated in the EU was held aboard the French "Atlanta". We've been running for the European Defence Agency. But what I think is bad is that a NATO standard codification has been stopped as part of the Serbian Army. If, to say Colloquial, it doesn't break off as soon as possible, I'm afraid our industry is going to lose customers, because that's one need in the world today. All products of the dedicated industry are codified and there are catalogical numbers. If we're in all catalogs, it's a problem for export. The fact is that Serbia has a great possibility of exporting both east and west because our products are suitable, oriented both east and west, i.e. the calibres we produce are oriented both east and west, and that's why I said the other day on a show when they asked me how it is possible that in a conflict that is currently happening in the Middle East, our ammunition is in the first five ammunitions that are there, I said that I was surprised that we are not in the first three, because I believe that we can increase. Of course, I don't support it, and it's not our country's responsibility, or you, or anyone in this country when that weapon is found in the hands of some terrorists. It's a responsibility primarily for those who don't protect those weapons in an adequate way when they get it. I believe this subject is not interesting to everyone, but I'd like to ask you to step out of the O.R. if you can't listen, because I can't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12430	Mr. Sutanovac, we hear you here. Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12431	Well, you can hear me, but I can't hear myself from what they're getting. Mr. Minister, it's not you, but it's simply been said over the past period a lot about the defence industry. It was also talked about "Kruik" and "Yugoimport". I have the exact information, and I want to say it. You know I'm well informed. This is no secret, this can be found on websites. It would be very good to deal with something presented here as a great success, and unfortunately it isn't. The Krusik factory has 22% less employees in two years. So, about 350 workers work less in Krusik. The fact is that nominal salary is a thousand or two thousand dinars higher than it was two years ago. With this reduction of yours, it's going to be a thousand, two less than it was. If we count on what the euro is, people are losing a large amount of money again, and they're doing the same job. But what's the problem, is that in realising jobs compared to last year you have 7% less income compared to last year. Also, the average profit is 11% lower than last year in the same period. I'm saying this because we've heard that this year's new management, which was set up by the government and which was party-marked, has made two and a half times as much a result as it was. Do you have any idea how many two-and-a-half times there are? If they said - 0.25 times more, that would be, if I said, acceptable, but two and a half times more, it's just not a fact. Also, by analysing how and how our company works today, which up until about four or five years ago was, to say, commercially, the SDPR, in the meantime, has become even a producer, so there is production, we conclude that there are things going on that do not benefit either the defence system or the government budget of the Republic of Serbia. If we say that in or around the central building, the number of employees has increased from 300 to 600, the question is why? What kind of work do people do in offices to practically double the number of jobs? Believe me, you can answer me, but I can bring you the names of your employees, so we don't have to worry about that. That's the facts. You know that. What is devastating is that compared to the first three quarters of 2012 and the first three quarters of 2014 you have income that is 49.77% lower than it was in 2012. I'm not saying this because someone's going to interpret that we're boasting. I think Serbia's citizens will soon find out who was doing good, who was doing better, who was doing bad. I'm saying this for one reason that I don't think you're paying enough attention, you, I personally believe you're paying attention, but since you've changed three ministers in two years, and if you don't know, the 11th Minister for 14 years at the Ministry of Defense, that's what I've been running for five years, so we've got 10 ministers in nine years, and it's hard to get a look at the whole problem that exists. Please pay particular attention to those segments of trade and production where you, as Government, have changed the directors in your desire to set up, I suppose, better, and the results are worse. Why am I telling you this? Because among the unions, among employees, several factories are said to be preparing some party cuts, some new directors are being prepared in successful businesses. I have a concern that these new directors will not be able to run these factories, as the new director in Krusik does not know how to run that factory. The theme that we discussed in this Assembly, which was discussed, about 27 secretaries, about winter and summer tires on the car, about the cost of a mobile phone, etc., is a topic that is not for this level of conversation. I'm telling you that, I'm afraid, if it continues with such activities, that factories, such as the First Partizan, which has extremely high quality management, will come into the situation that there are no results at the level at which they are now. I want you to know that and the public of Serbia should know that no director of the dedicated industry, or only one director of the dedicated industry, has been replaced in the term of the former government. They're all inherited. I've met these people as well as you. We've left those who are successful. As far as I know, none of them are members of any party, I say none, except from the "Kruik" member, activist, official, now I don't know, the same as in the SDPR. I urge you to act in a way that analyses work, not on the pressure of local committees of individual parties, who think the defence industry is just prey, not the possibility of developing Serbia. These days, we also had an extremely big story in the media about who the biggest taxpayers are and two defence industry factories appear, and that's the whole truth. I think we should all find a chance together to convert that debt and help these factories at least get a look like before 1999. It's not fair to put in the same basket of privates who have become rich in these years and factories that have been bombed and that have raised themselves to the level that was before 1999. This is a suggestion. I hope you have understood this discussion in one correct way, as I have brought it out. It's not my idea to criticize, it's my idea. I hear you're active, I hear you're visiting factories, but I'm just asking you to keep in mind that in three, four or five months, as long as you run the system, you can't look at all the facts unless you're some superman, and there's only one superman in this country, we know who he is. So, please just keep in mind that these are things that depend on people's lives, people who are committed to work, and I'm also asking you to try to diplomatically engage that our weapons and military equipment are on the world market, of course, where this agreement that we're going to vote today approve of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12432	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12433	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 107. I think the speaker at the assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I had to react because there was a set of lies and lies here. If we're talking about SDPR business, it's not true that 600 people are employed there. The number of employees remained at the level before the SNS authorities were taken over and before the minister was appointed. It's a complete lie. Moreover, the SDPR has also made certain shifts in its work, as far as the budget is concerned, as regards the delivery. I'd just ask you to respond to these disgusting lies, because it's really unacceptable for someone who systematically destroyed the military area to be giving lectures today, but let's give a lecture based on facts or some things that are supported by the truth, but this is really one big lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12434	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I don't know how certain companies in the defence industry are doing business. Maybe my opinion is someone subjective, doesn't necessarily mean it's objective, so I let a fellow Shutanovite say what he wanted to say. Of course, MPs can oppose each other’s arguments and thus come to some conclusion. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: No. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12435	Article 107. Mr Arsic, when the MP says that the other MP is lying, and lying is a home education, there are no members, when the MP in the statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure says that his predecessor lied, and you do not respond, it is already a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So if you can't run the session, leave it to someone who can. If you cannot educate the messengers with home education, and I understand that, but you can make a warning and say, "I'm sorry, that's not working." I'll document everything I said, I'll document everything. I'll give a lecture if I have to, we can go out of the O.R., it's not a problem. Who's interested, I'll give a lecture in an hour when it's over, especially those who didn't serve the army will have the opportunity to sit in the front row. So, please only when you say it - it's a lie, it's an insult to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12436	All right, we got it. Here, I apologize to Mr. Sutanovac for not reacting when it comes to the word lie. I ask fellow People's Messengers to use a different term from now on, and that is, they are not telling the truth. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12437	Mr. Chairman, I can understand that you have a sensitivity to certain things or a certain side of this hall, but you need to know that lectures can only be held by teachers, only those accredited and aesthetized, to hold lectures at colleges, in schools. I just don't understand how you can't react to the false representation of the previous speaker? Now he's acting like a professional, now he's acting like a professor, now he's acting like I don't know what. At least you can know that if you don't know about the data and the excellent business results that the SDPR has achieved. All right, you don't have to know, but you need to know that if a professor doesn't stand in front of the name and name of someone, he has no right to present himself as a professor and lecturer and teach himself to broad folk masses. As he taught, so did we, unfortunately, very badly. That's why you have to react to false representation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12438	I have no intention of convincing anyone whether he's a professor or not. Everyone has the right to believe that he knows as much as he thinks he knows, and what a lecturer he is, depends on how many people he will listen to. So I didn't want to stop anyone from doing that. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure.) Mr. Sutanovac, let's get on with it. I couldn't possibly break the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, it is not you, but an apostle.) The MP cannot break the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: let me explain.) Let's see how he can break it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12439	The esteemed predecessor said, Article 107...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12440	He was now a member of 107, a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12441	What difference does it make? Meanwhile, he violated Article 107. So he said you can't give a lecture if you're not a professor. I gave a lecture at London School of Economics several years ago, and I read that yesterday the Serbian Prime Minister gave a lecture at the same school I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12442	Comrade Sutanovac, I have just explained the adjudication of my colleague Babic's Rules of Procedure. Please don't go back to that. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you've been saying, Mr. Former Minister, I don't know what this has to do with the subject of the agenda, but I don't mind answering that. You said first that we should make an effort to get "First Partizan" out of the basement or hole, as you called it. Obviously, you have less and less good information coming to you from the Department of Defense, which I am, of course. I said last time it would be more significant, and on October 30, it was scheduled to open a new "First Partizan" factory and "First Partizan" after, that's how many years, and your colleague knows it, finally ends this investment cycle and we'll have nothing more than production underground, as it used to be. As for the director, I'm glad you responded to the citizens of Serbia when you said - our company SDPR, the answer costs both how and where it works and which companies of the dedicated industry, so I'm glad you said that. You say, CEOs, we're changing directors. Which of the directors was replaced without being inherited from the time of 2007, 2008? Could Mr. Gromovic be in the flag of arms? Is Mr. Andric in "The First Partisan" from Užica? I don't see, if we've now agreed to the statutes of all enterprises of the dedicated industry and we want to discuss competitions, what kind of problem is that? Is anyone forbidden to compete? Is 11-year-old factory manager forbidden to compete? On the contrary. For your information, 250 million was the level of exports we had in the dedicated industry and you just showed paper and you see that trend is stable. It's also on your paper, which you've shown to the media, you can see that it hasn't fallen in these two years, as you say, we're still holding this positive and good trend. Of course, I agree with you, in 1999 90% of the dedicated industry's capacity was destroyed. We managed to restore 95% of our capacity in 2014. We are slowly returning some factories that lost treatment in 2005, 2004, 2006, the right to be part of the dedicated industry, such as Trajal Kruševac, such as "14. October", such as "Cruik batteries", and we give them back their permits. For the sake of the public, I can show you, I ask the cameras to show you how it is and how much permission has been issued in the period from 2008 to 2012 for the production and trade of military equipment and weapons and how much this was done in 2013 and 2014. In 2008, we had 16 permits issued. It's exact data. That's the data you can find anywhere. In 2009, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, That's the information that you can check. As for the reception of new workers, you also don't have enough good information. "First Partizan" Užice has been given the consent to receive new 150 workers for the opening of new plants and the process of receiving these workers is under way. Krusik got consent to the reception of 100 new workers, but, frankly, we can't fight when you left us 29 secretaries and you left us administrative staff, and 10 or 20% were production workers. He can't sit around the offices anymore. Here's your chance of retraining. Here you go. Here's to producing what we need to be able to export. I'm really sorry we might have hit somebody's sister-in-law, aunt, aunt, etc., but they have to work. I showed you last time the data on how much the salary was during your term of office and how it was growing and that it was much higher in 2014 than it was in 2008. I read it to you, Mr. Sutanovac. Your story about inherited directors, I don't know who's been replaced or who's changed. You say, the biggest tax debtors. Who allowed the flag of arms not to pay contributions, taxes and everything else in the period 2000 to 2012? You need to know that this is the government, i.e. The government of the previous year, in 2013, concluded that debt conversion is being made in the enterprises of the dedicated industry. You know we've got a problem. We have reached your coalition partner Verko Stefanovic or Stevanovic, as his name is already in Kragujevac, who does not want to make the conversion of the debt into the flag of arms, and we are standing there. We don't have that problem in Uzica. We don't have that problem in any other factory, we don't have it in Trieste, we don't have it anywhere. That conclusion, which you're talking about, that someone doesn't want to bring, was brought in 2013. We're waiting for local self-government to carry him out. Of course, all directors, including those who are inherited, are going to the competition. The Department of Defense has a supervisory character over them and requires it to be legal and competitive. Anyone who can guarantee that by his knowledge, he will have his capital to secure the stable and positive operations of these factories will be elected. What's his name? We don't care about that. Be assured, unlike any previous period, the SNS will not choose a director by party membership, but by the quality of that 2,100 workers, as far as we have in the flag in Kragujevac, can receive an orderly salary every 5th or 20th. This government is maximumly committed to helping them with all their affairs. As for the lost revenues of the Ministry of Defence, you do not have good enough information, as in the 2014 budget the additional five billion was intended to cover these own revenues, which went directly to the budget. This applies to Karadjordjevo, VMA, in order to regulate the situation and that they cannot afford their own revenues and wait for the state to add additional funds to them. As far as VTI is concerned, and you don't have good information, one part for the use of the airport, 70 million of their own incomes have been realised, and they're left for the development of those funds. So they're not all taken away from their own incomes. I can officially deliver that to you. The VTI has its own incomes that remain for further development. Why didn’t we show “the sparrow ” and“ the Pegasus ” to fly on a parade? Because we had VTI-produced disruptors involved, and then there was a problem with televisions where you couldn't watch the parade all the time, because we had announcements that some groups wanted that military parade to clear, shadow or whatever. That's what was involved in the match between Partizan and Besiktas, that there can't be an incident like we had about 20 days ago. It's also the merit of VTI. As for technology transfer, I must tell you, Mr Sutanovac, that it is not some former, your presidents, who are now going and lobbying for foreign arms companies both in Azerbaijan and in some other countries and two days before the arrival of the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, they are going to offer production programmes of some other countries, surely that Serbia would have more significant results in the transfer of technology and everything else. All this stuff you're saying, I'm asking you, you've got less and less good information. I don't know why this is happening, but it's not true, as it is not true that the SDPR has received so many new workers, but I have to tell you, the SDPR has helped the Republic of Serbia's budget with over 30m euros, at the moment we need it most. Also, you talk about reduction all the time. With this rebalancing, this government has taken important care of the Ministry of Defence. You see for yourself, when you take the rebalancing that we are not reduced, precisely because of the military's need, because of the great obligations the military had in saving the unhappy people in these elementary floods and everything else that we had in 2014, so that the Ministry of Defence, frankly, can only be satisfied with everything that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has at this moment identified funds for our further modernisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12444	Thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, on what grounds? He said I don't know. No, he didn't tell you at any point that you didn't know. The minister answered your questions. He said several times that I was getting information... (Laughter) More than once, for your information. You asked Mr. Secretary a question. If someone asks a question, I understand that they don't know anything. I don't ask questions when I know. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: nothing understood me.) So, in no part of Mr. Minister's discussion, I didn't notice that he didn't understand you very well, or that he said anything offensive about you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I tell you he didn't understand me.) I'm telling you he understood you perfectly. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: the problem. So no one understood you. What do you mean you're teaching, if no one understands you? I'm sorry, Mr. Sutanovac, you have no right to a replica. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Defence Ministers, the SPO and the DHSS consider it inappropriate to boast that they were once right with their policies, and that it gave them time to confirm and that today will be one of the few days in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is most often when it comes to defence issues, when, according to our assessment, all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Of course they'll vote both SPO and DHSS. We can look at these laws from three aspects. One is military diplomacy and our foreign diplomacy, the other is the security system and the third is the economic benefits of these laws. Since the beginning of our political parties, we have considered diplomacy, and military diplomacy is one of the most important factors in the foreign diplomacy of a country, the best defence system, that this armed defence is only the kind of defense that arises when all other resources are exhausted, and that is why those unfortunate 1990s have had a conflict of two strategies. One was to defend Knin in Belgrade, and the other was to defend Belgrade in Knin. We felt that Knin was just defending himself in Belgrade and defending himself by leading a good foreign policy, which we understand well international relations and circumstances, which we know well our place in the international community, our strength, our power and our influence. It's good for our political scene, it's good for the country, it's good for our economy, it's good for the army of Serbia that we have great respect for, that today all political parties are on track for this policy. The arms trade agreement was signed by the UN General Assembly in 2013, which has so far been signed by 118 states, ratified 41. They signed all EU members where we strive to be and ratify most of these countries. In short, it is about respecting standards in conventional arms trade, with the recognition of the inalienable rights of each UN member state to self-defense under conditions that should be met previously. It has been negotiated for six years to reach this document. The negotiation process was extremely complex due to conflicting interests. But what's most important is that the arms trade under this agreement is made as credible as possible, the process as open as possible, because we are aware that in today's world, illegal arms trafficking is booming, and that the premises of the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s have flourished by illegal arms trade, especially as regards the weapons of the UCC and the armed forces in Bosnia on all three sides. Then, strengthening co-operation between countries and the intention to minimise illegal trade. In 1999, we are primarily due to the mistakes of our foreign policy, due to a lack of understanding of relations in the international community, due to a number of delusions that the potential conflict in Kosovo will cause major forces to go into third world work, that we will conclude some alliances with Russia, Belarus, that the Russians will go to NATO pact, etc. We, as a country, have paid the highest price for all of this, and from business entities the highest price paid by the dedicated industry that was the first to target NATO aggression. Over 90% of the capacity has been destroyed. What's good is that all governments after 2000, including this government, recognized the role and importance of the dedicated industry and set off to rebuild these capacities. Regardless of the need for better staff to respond to the demand for time, as far as the production of the dedicated industry is concerned, the whole world acknowledges that we still have good personnel and that our products are quite respectable on the foreign market, that they meet all the necessary standards and therefore we are one of the major exporters of the product of the dedicated industry, from the USA and beyond. It should particularly highlight Italy, Belgium, even Indonesia and many other countries that have full confidence in exporting our dedicated industry. As an MP from Kragujevac, I was often in contact with employees in the dedicated industry in the flag of arms in Kragujevac, because of the many problems that followed the business of the dedicated industry. What we really need to say with a lot of praise and what we can praise and that we should not be ashamed of is that, apart from the flag of arms and the "Freedom" from Cačka, "Krusik" Valjevo, "First Partizan" Užice, "Milan Blažević" Luciani, "First Spark" Barič, but also those associates of the dedicated industry "First Petoletika" from Tristenik, "Teleoptik" from Zemun and "Utva" from Pančev. They hire about 9500 people. Of that, over 7,000 are constantly employed, but there is also a constant engagement of additional labour, which is very important for our economy. Whatever export data are often seen as a business secret, what we can safely say is that we are significant exporters of the product of the dedicated industry. This way I would not be presenting the data, because the information available to the public varies from that last year we exported over 300 million dollars to data that can be found on Croatian sites that we exported over 750m euros, which is a data that I think is a suspicious character. As far as the deal with the Kingdom of Spain is concerned, you ministers said a lot of what I wanted to say. Regardless of the lengthy bilateral co-operation, indeed, the Kingdom of Spain, of course, is close to me because of its arrangement, because we also advocate that Serbia will one day be a kingdom, is one of the countries with which Serbia traditionally has extraordinary co-operation, one of the countries, regardless of the fact that it is a member of the EU and NATO Pact, which has a very constructive and principled attitude towards KIM, towards the illegal declaration of independence of KIM. On the other hand, in addition to the new agreement that we have concluded with several countries on the exchange of classified information relating not only to internal affairs, to defence, but also to many other segments of the two states' operation, it is necessary to say that indeed our cultural and economic and diplomatic co-operation with Spain has been constantly on the upward path and that this is one of the few countries with which we do not have so-called. open questions. I am also a member of the Friendship Group with the Kingdom of Spain, and we do have frequent meetings with both the mailman and the gentlemen of the Cervantes Institute. It is good and this non-governmental co-operation at the level of the two countries, and that seems to me, given that Serbia has finally understood its international legal position fully, I say first of all because all the parliamentary groups today will vote for these two draft laws, after all our wanderings, after all our deaths, we have finally realized that today is a collective security system, that there is no country of modern council that is geographically located in this climate that has so-called. individual security, that's a category that's largely exceeded. Therefore, regardless of our exceptional respect for Serbia's NATO Army's heroic resistance to the NATO Pact, the largest military army that ever existed in the history of the world in 1999, we felt that our policy at the time had largely failed, because it had managed to do something that none of us had done before in our policy – that the whole world had united against a small country, regardless of our exceptional respect for both the Serbian army and all the victims of the NATO Pact, it is good that, as well as the Serbian Army that we consider to be the first to go into strong internal reforms, to change itself, that, in addition to respecting the standards itself, it has shown one great human skill, one great professionalism, one great patriotism. Today we have a situation that just the NATO member states are the biggest importers of our dedicated industry's products and it's always good for the enemy to make friends, especially when it comes to such a powerful enemy. We know that throughout history, and when it was the Sanstefhan Peace Agreement, when some countries we swore were brotherly, friendly, etc., that our foreign diplomacy was then able to find friends and allies elsewhere, found them, and that resulted in Serbia's independence at the Berlin Congress in 1878. Therefore, I would not enter into the details of these agreements and legislative solutions, but what is the most important political message, which is absolutely acceptable to us, is that the Serbian Army has been leading good military diplomacy since 2000, which you, ministers, have continued, that Serbia is leading good external diplomacy, that it benefits both our security and our economy, and whenever you come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with such good proposals, expect our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12446	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12447	Thank you so much for your kind words. I remained obliged to answer the question of codification, and you have now mentioned that part, military equipment according to NATO standards, which the previous speaker mentioned. Not that codification has not been stopped, as it has been said to have been stopped, but in mid-November in Luxembourg we are being admitted to a second level of membership, which is the highest level when it comes to the Partnership for Peace with NATO members. So, the Serbian Army is working intensively on codification and here, I say, in mid-November we will be admitted to a second level, which is, you agree, very well, precisely because of the export of weapons to NATO member states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12448	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12449	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, first of all I want to say on behalf of the SPS as authorized under this item of the agenda that the SPS will support both agreements. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain, we can say that this is another one in a series of bilateral agreements which are this type and which we have adopted in the previous period. Something more about this agreement will be spoken of by my colleague a little later, and I will base my discussion on this second, the SPS of an extremely important law, which is the arms trade treaty. A large number of countries today, regardless of the privatisation of a military-industry complex, support the development and production of weapons as part of foreign, military and economic policy. The ineffectiveness of the existing control of arms transfers and the non-compliance of all national legislation in the world has led to the creation of this international document, which will establish greater control and provide operational mechanisms for the application of binding standards. The very initiative to produce this document came back in 2003, by the international coalition of NGOs that launched the "controlarms" campaign and in fact the first impulse to develop an agreement that would regulate control of arms trafficking at global level was launched in 2006. The UN also formed a Working Group to deal with the issue in a resolution in 2008. Although July 2012 was the deadline for the adoption of this agreement, following a four-week debate in New York, only a draft contract was adopted in April 2012 with some countries' reserves, primarily the United States and Russia, so that only in 2013 was the agreement actually signed by 118 UN member states. The arms trade treaty itself aims to make legal trade, conventional weapons through the establishment of higher common international standards for imports, exports and arms and military equipment itself. In fact, it aims to establish effective multilateral arms transfer control. How important this document is, the fact that all EU member states have already ratified this agreement and that the Republic of Serbia will be, will not be angry with counterpart Chikiriz to supplement it, 55 of the Member States that ratified the contract. At the beginning of this month, the National Assembly, Mr Ministers said, adopted the Law on Importing and Exporting Arms and Military Equipment, as well as the Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose Products adopted last year in November, which harmonizes our legislation with new EU rules and procedures. We also coordinate with international agreements and conventions. The ratification of this contract establishes in fact a legal framework for the security of a sound control system in this area and the elimination of possible unwanted exports and arms trade. I've got this contract envisioning concrete measures. The contract itself clearly categorized the types of conventional weapons. In the process itself, the document was passed by states in terms of the scope of the arms, whose international trade should be regulated. The provisions of this Treaty relate to the widest range of conventional weapons and national definitions of the categories covered which may not go below the description used in the UN Conventional Weapons Register. The contract also provides for traffic control mechanisms. Each Member State shall establish and maintain a national control system, in order to regulate the export of ammunition, parts and components for the conclusion of conventional weapons, including national control of the list. The assessment of the transport of arms and measures to prevent detours from importing and exporting countries is the responsibility of the Member State itself. The purpose of the contract is to eradicate illegal arms trafficking in this sense, rerouting control has special significance, because, you will agree, uncontrollably rerouting illegal arms trafficking is something that threatens world peace and security the most. In order to ensure such a contractual objective, all States Parties shall assume a higher level of responsibility, which is set out in the Treaty itself. The contract also increases transparency in arms trade, through a request to keep records and report to the secretariat, which is actually to be a special international body, and other states to signatories. The state is obliged to establish and maintain a national control system. All Member States shall be encouraged to make their control lists public. The signatories are also obliged to submit the first initial report, which will present the legislative framework, and then the national contact body and then the state is obliged to submit reports on authorised, or real-estate, imports and exports of weapons once a year. The high level of production of weapons and military equipment is today interpreted as a significant factor of autonomy in foreign policy, and arms exports can also be an instrument for both foreign and military and economic policies. After turbulent years and huge changes on the world political and military scene, Serbia's defence industry, we will all agree, not at the technological summit, but it is known for its competitive and quality equipment and weapons, which is reliable and relatively easy to use. Most of my colleagues and you, ministers, remember that golden period during the '70s and '80s, that's what my colleagues also talked about, when we were producing planes, tanks, multi-band systems and other modern weapons and military equipment. However, the fact is that today our arms and military equipment factories are still respectable in the world. My colleagues mentioned the data, I don't want to repeat myself. As counterpart Chikiriz said, I will point out again, it is still in the Republic of Serbia that nine factories that produce arms and military equipment are still working, but you, ministers, have said, and this is good information, that 250 million in 2013 amounted to exports of the Republic of Serbia. Some of our modern international competitive products that are of the conventional weapons category set out in this contract are: "Lasta", "Nora B52", "Lazar", automatic rifles with optical digital aim, M57 and M70 pistols and semi-automated hunting carbine and hunting carbine. Our interest in the export of arms and military equipment is also supported by data from the Ministry of Defence, according to which, for example, In 2013, arms exports are 15 times higher than imports. It is precisely these revenues that we can implement modernising our country's military forces, investing in revitalising the existing capacities of the dedicated industry and, finally, channeling larger funds into the research and development of weapons and military equipment. In view of all this, the traditions of our arms industry and military equipment, it is necessary to fully prepare all international legal obligations in order to be able to participate fully in the international arms market. For Serbia, which is the largest arms exporter in Southeast Europe, it is extremely important that we have a complete legal framework, which is achieved by ratification of this contract. Once again, the SPS will support these two bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12450	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Momir Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12451	The President-in-Office, Honored Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Trade of Weapons and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information. At this time, in my brief presentation, I will not look back on the success and failure of our dedicated industry's business, nor on how successful or unsuccessful anyone as defence minister has been. This is best known by the Ministry and members of the General Staff and members of the Army in general. Despite the fact that the national laws of almost all countries in the world have been regulated in the area of arms trafficking, including military equipment, at the initiative of a group of Nobel laureates, the creation of a global contract on arms trafficking has taken place. As you heard from the prime minister's opening statement, on 2 April 2013, at the UN General Assembly meeting, the contract was adopted, and in August of the same year our ambassador to the UN was ratified. The ATT contract worked for seven years. What are the reasons why the UN resorted to making such a contract despite the existence of national legislation? It is primarily to prevent the suffering and suffering of women and children, sick prisoners and many others, who are present today in armed conflicts and at battlefields around the world. As you know, this contract has been signed so far by the 121 countries, and 54 countries have ratified this contract. What is important is that almost all EU members have so far signed this contract and almost all countries in the environment, except BiH. In 2013, in this House we adopted the Law on Transport and Trade in Double-Foreign Goods, and recently we also passed the Law on Trade and Transport in Arms and Military Equipment and we have a fully compatible legal regulation with this Treaty and does not pose any interference, nor does our country's new request to sign this contract. This treaty has been in effect since 24.12. this year and it is therefore very important that our Parliament, like all EU member states and countries in the environment, ratifys, or sign this contract. The contract was drawn up on the basis of Article 26. The UN Charter, where all EU member states are calling for improving world peace and stability. As such, it provides each member, including our country, if we adopt this Treaty proposal today, new credibility when it comes to arms and military equipment. I am pleased that this trend in our arms exports is on the rise. I am also pleased that it is being maintained, and I am happy that there will certainly be new jobs with this government and the new minister for our dedicated industry. The Treaty, as you can see, does not refer to the key provisions of this Treaty, regulates all obligations of all members in terms of traffic, i.e. arms trafficking. In our Law on arms trade and military equipment, we have already developed these measures, but in our aspirations towards the EU, I consider it necessary for us to be compatible with other countries in this field, in particular with EU member states. The question arises - how will this contract affect, positively or negatively, our dedicated industry? First of all, I think it will be quite positive, because by joining a contract like this, Serbia will gain additional credibility when it comes to exporting its weapons and military equipment. The key reasons why the UN is proposing such a roof contract that has a global character is the fact that today, despite the existence of national legislation, we have more and more phenomena that due to some failures by some countries in arms transport, we have a worrying increase in the deaths of women and children in armed conflicts and wars, old people and others protected by Geneva Convention and protected by international war and humanitarian law. Let me also point out that the proposal for this treaty and its solution is compatible with the 1949 Geneva UN Convention and with the 1993 OSCE documents. When asked to confirm the Agreement on mutual exchange and the protection of classified information between the Kingdom of Spain and our country, Mr. Minister said in his opening statement that our diplomatic and comprehensive relations with the Kingdom of Spain are on a constant rise and a huge recognition and the fact that the Kingdom of Spain respects the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. This type of contract, which we have ratified in this House, like many contracts, previously refers to obligations both on exchange and protection of classified information. I don't think it's going to cause any stronger controversy and dispute in this House, as neither will this arms contract. I see no reason to further politicise in this House on all the issues that we are considering when both the bill and the other bill are quite clear and when it brings improvement to our country and regulates certain things that are already, to a good extent, regulated in our country. The SNS parliamentary group, aware of all this, will surely support the proposal to confirm the agreement and the proposal to sign a arms transport contract in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12452	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12453	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Serbia as a traditional producer and exporter of the dedicated industry and states that are constantly and continuously seeking to curb any act of terrorism, violence, as well as violations of basic human rights and freedoms, have no doubt that both of these laws are being voted on as soon as possible. This, first of all, is because it is very important that we act preventively and that we, as a country, prevent the suppression of, otherwise, non-profitable and illegal trafficking in conventional weapons and thus put all the traffic under stricter and better control. As I prepare for today's debate on this law, I have found some different and conflicting opinions as well as the fact that illegal arms trafficking is often linked to conflicting areas. However, the data I have found do not contribute to this, but rather say that this is a very widespread phenomenon throughout the world for many years and therefore the ratification of this contract was necessary in all countries. It is also very widespread in countries where there is no conflicting area. So, only in South Asia is it estimated that the incredible 63 million pieces of small-caliber weapons and guns were smuggled into India and Pakistan. According to some estimates, the global market for conventional weapons is difficult to reach at an annual level of $70 billion and about 15% to 20% of waste on illegal retail arms and ammunition. These data are very important because they point to the necessity of ratification of this contract and I expect that in a very recent period 121 countries that have signed this contract, and only 54 countries have ratified it, will do so very quickly. For me as a folk MP is a very important and humanitarian character of this contract and the fact that the foundation established by Oscar Arias has struggled for 16 years to get to this. I also found another survey interesting, and I would only say one sentence from a study on peace and conflict in which it is said that in poorly developed countries and countries in the development of trade, illegal arms trade, is dominant because of extremely weak legislative activity and weak institutions. This is another thesis to the fact that the ratification of this contract for every developing country is very important. I can't say Finland's position on this occasion when the issue was a vote in the UN. On behalf of the EU, Finland was then in favour of reaching the ultimate goal, i.e. to make such a proposal as soon as possible. The President of Finland said this – every day everywhere in the world people feel the consequences of irresponsible arms traffic. Since there is currently no international binding instrument that would represent a broader legal framework, the EU welcomes growing support from all parts of the world for the adoption of the arms trade contract. What's good for our parliament is that with this contract we practically round up legislative activity in this area. We recently passed the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose and the Export and Import Act of Arms and Military Equipment. Now I'm going to look very briefly at just a few provisions of this law. Article 2 defines what everything under conventional weapons is meant and everything that is listed by battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, the artillery system of large caliber, combat aircraft, assault helicopters reminds me of a recently held military parade and the fact that Serbia, regardless of the long range of years of devastation in this area, still has something to offer foreign customers and that there is the possibility of further improvement of the existing arsenal. Article 5(2) of the Treaty provides that each signatories State should establish its national control system, including the national control list, which is a solution that we have already adopted in those laws. This law very clearly defines bans, additional risk assessment and what is also very important for me and for my colleagues in Parliament is in Article 7 of point 4 where it is said that the assessment takes the risk that certain weapons can be used to commit gender-based violence, i.e. violence of women and children. We know how many women, children and old people died in the world because of illegal arms trafficking. Article 11 constitutes an essential part of the contract, since it obliges all States of the signatories, whether exporters or importers to take all available measures to prevent, reroute conventional weapons. Now I'd like to ask you a question. When adopting previous laws, I have submitted an amendment that has been rejected to me, and it concerns the fact that a report is submitted to Parliament in these areas because, by 31 May of this law, international institutions have to report on the permits issued or the actual export of conventional weapons. I have submitted the amendment primarily in order to boost the transparency and control role of parliament, believing that this high-level ministry home must receive regular reports. I am now extremely interested in how we plan to respond to this international obligation and to deliver such a report to the International Secretariat by the end of May of the month, or perhaps, in relation to this member of the contract, we will use the right to reserve when depositing instruments of ratification in accordance with Article 25. It is very important to me that this contract does not in any segment endanger the right of sovereign states to self-defense and national sovereignty, which is, in my opinion, an additional quality. As far as the agreement with the Kingdom of Spain is concerned, the general position is that each bilateral agreement for our country, regardless of the matter it regulates, is significant, and in that sense both of these laws will support the NS parliamentary group in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12454	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. My apologies, the word has the first minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you know, Mrs Filipovski, that I never find it difficult to answer you, and that I always do so with pleasure, you get these reports just through this committee, but through other committees, so that this report goes neatly the way the Defence and Security and Financial Affairs Committee does. So that report goes to them, so they don't double this procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12456	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Nikola Jolovic, if he's here. Yes, it is. Here you go. Have Irena Alexic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12457	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to quote only one small portion of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's exposé, and this segment entitled "Exit to New Markets and Increase Exports of Serbian Goods". To further increase exports, activities will be stepped up to seek new markets for Serbian goods, through the signing of a free trade agreement with countries with which Serbia has so far not had such concluded agreements. It was observed that the biggest growth in exports was achieved precisely in those countries with which free trade agreements have been concluded. In this sense, the greatest potential for this type of demand for new markets exists in the countries of the Middle East, Africa and Asia. While the exposé was not an interesting literary composition or a fairy tale list of good wishes, it was a guideline and a defined course of progress that ultimately aims at modern and economically developed Serbia. The government's leading policy accordingly lies ahead of this House with this bill, which integrates the idea of trade in conventional weapons as our potential development and export chance of retaining existing and opening new markets. Namely, the arms trade contract in accordance with Article 26. The UN Charter, which requires Member States to establish and maintain international peace and security in advance. Its content has been developed in accordance with the UN Disarmament Commission's guidelines on international arms transfer. All EU member states have signed the arms trade treaty, and the largest number has already completed their ratification process. The adopted arms trade agreement is the result of, involving a large number of UN Member States to adopt a legally binding international document, which in a comprehensive way regulates the principles, criteria and prohibitions to be managed by the States in approving arms trafficking, as well as the type of arms to which the agreed principles and criteria apply. The arms trade contract is an international legal binding document defining at global level criteria, prohibition principles and introducing new standards to be taken into account by Member States when authorising the transfer of commercial weapons. For the first time, UN members agreed on a set of common standards and principles on arms transfer issues. The arms trade agreement aims, among other things, to make arms trade as credible as possible, the process itself transparent, as well as to strengthen co-operation between states and reduce the possibility of illegal trade to a minimum. The purpose industry of the former SFRY was a major exporter of commercial weapons, but the concept of its development was defined on the territorial republican principle, so that the final product was formed from parts of many dependent factories scattered along the old Yugoslavia. It is clear that the production of weapons is a regional opportunity and a way of connecting, and therefore the right direction for the integration of the state system in these areas, and above all those on their way to the EU. Renovating production at the old Yugoslavia level and returning to the old markets are a regional chance of development, and Serbia is one of the locomotives of this composition. Serbia must produce and modernise products that are known for their quality and affordable price in numerous markets, and the conditions of their sale and especially the conditions for weapons as a means of destruction and destruction are particularly rigorous and must be fully in line with rules, norms, laws or contracts at international level. Our country must in no way allow itself to be missed which could be temporarily or permanently removed from the arms market. The Republic of Serbia is one of the significant producers of the product of the dedicated industry, as well as their exporter. By signing a arms trade contract with the Republic of Serbia, it will continue to strengthen its overall administrative and other capacities in this area and will join a group of those countries that fully fulfil their international obligations regarding the transfer of conventional weapons. It will also confirm in this way that policy, objectives and EU standards in this area follow in everything. On the basis of this argument, I believe that the solutions offered in the proposal for a law on the validation of arms trade contracts are very specific and necessary in order to comply with international standards. In voting day, the SNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12458	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Let Vladimir Orlic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12459	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected co-workers of the minister, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, we have two extremely important legal acts in front of us today. In my presentation, I'll look first of all at the arms trade treaty. This Treaty is of great importance to our country for a number of reasons, and above all because we have no obligation to sign it, we only get benefits. In fact, our legislation in this area has been quite well developed. This Treaty only further improves and draws us closer to EU legislation, which is of course, and how useful it is for our negotiation process. The arms trade agreement is the result of seven years of work, adopted by the UN General Assembly. What is very important for us that all countries are back in our accession process, is that all EU member states, at the same time, are signatories of this treaty, and many of them have already ratified this treaty. The main objective of this contract is to make this process of arms trafficking itself transparent, which is practically the only way to protect itself from any possible forms of abuse. This international legal document has very precisely defined standards, criteria, as well as prohibitions, when it comes to arms trafficking, and what is very important is that all these criteria are common to all UN Member States, which is useful in itself, because all these countries point to each other. In this way, one global security is promoted and the most important danger of illegal arms trafficking is significantly reduced, and the danger of illegal arms trafficking does not need to be specifically explained. What I would particularly point out is that what's very positive about this contract is its strong, human dimension. In fact, it is now being taken into account when exporting arms, it is also taking care of the destination, which is very important, because it is preventively taking care of the safety of women and children, which I think is extremely positive when it comes to this contract. At the very end of what I would particularly point out, once again, that the Republic of Serbia has no obligation to do this, means that it is only a win, that the credibility of our industry is improved, as well as our defence mechanisms, which I think is very good, we are approaching EU legislation. These are the reasons why the SNS will support this contract in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12460	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am pleased with the consensus that is present in the hall today and on my part I support the laws that lie ahead of us. So, the Treaty on the Trade of Weapons not only because it is an act adopted before the UN and because Serbia as a responsible country, as a proud member of the community of world nations takes its international obligations seriously, but also because this contract has direct reflections on our industry. As is generally known, our dedicated industry has a very important place in the overall industrial flows of our country. There are very important export contracts from this area, and we as a country certainly have an unequivocal interest in making export operations to our industry, including this area, only better and in only greater scope. So that the adoption of good standards and the establishment of good frameworks that are considered high-quality may be of great interest to us. When it comes to the Agreement on the Exchange and Data Protection with the Kingdom of Spain, I point out once again that the overall security framework is not only a good framework for the establishment of deeper and stronger co-operation between countries, because it encourages both internal and external affairs and defence co-operation, but also that the economy is also present again as a significant factor, as a factor that will make all those companies in the country actively deal with products and services in this area also get new guidelines and also get new directions of action that will make this volume of exchanges only bigger and more significant. Finally, and security as an area is the basis for everything else, good and valuable that will happen further in society, and in this sense I welcome and possibly invest in the register which is discussed under the reasonings of this law, such investment and investment in the country and investment in society precisely because peace and stability are preconditions for any other type of progress and any other prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12462	I thank my colleague Orlic. The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic came to the floor, so that MP Vladimir Djukanovic can prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12463	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing very important draft laws, a bill on the confirmation of arms trade agreements and a bill on the validation of the Agreement between Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Why do I point out that the laws are very important? Because I believe it is a very specific topic, a very specific area, an area that is important for the security of our country, but also because our country is a significant producer and exporter of the product of the dedicated industry, namely arms and military equipment. By adopting this law, the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Trade in Weapons, Serbia ranks in order, the country in order of the countries which ratified this document, and I remind you that this document has been ratified in all EU Member States as well as in almost all the countries neighbouring our country. As the proposings of this proposal explained, Serbia thus strengthens its capacities in this area, it fulfils its international obligations regarding the transfer of conventional weapons. The importance of this contract is also the fact that after its adoption in the General Assembly, over 100 states have been signed to date, and has ratified over 50 countries that were more specifically talked about by the authorised SNS promoter, Mr. Momir Stojanovic. As an international-legal binding document, this contract defines criteria, principles, prohibitions, but also new standards to be taken into account when authorising the transfer of conventional weapons. One of the reasons for the adoption of this law is that this is definitely about what is called controlled goods, and the arms trade certainly is, which is regulated in all countries by special regulations, i.e. by special law. As a result of the agreement and consensus between UN members, this document strengthens co-operation between states, regulates arms trafficking, curbs illegal arms trafficking and makes it more credible, and the process makes this law more transparent and complementary and with the recently adopted Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment and last year, adopted by the Export and Import Act of Double Purpose, which is in full compliance with EU legislation. Serbia as a proud member of the world's people's family, as Honorable counterpart Orlic said earlier, is responsible for its obligations. Serbia as a good house for all its citizens is responsible for their security needs, for respecting other peoples and other countries and smooth economic activity. For these reasons, Serbia should support this treaty, in which it will have unequivocal support from SNS MPs, as well as whenever it comes to important state issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12464	I thank my colleague Markovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12465	Okay, we have laws before us today, i.e. certain contracts against which no one can really say anything, but they commit us to many things, especially if we ratify today, and I hope that we will, since there is no reason not to do so, the Law of Confirmation of the arms trade contract, first of all because it is a single civil fluid, because 118 UN Member States have signed the treaty, 41 has ratified it, and I hope that, of course, Serbia will now be 42, that many other states that have signed very quickly in their parliaments will ratify this agreement. He commits us to some things, and I believe that you, Mr. Gasic, will pay close attention to such a thing. First of all, we have a catastrophic, actually unregulated complete system of economic security for our businesses. In particular, let's say that when I'm talking about SDPR here, and of course it's going to be this company that's going to be our biggest exporter, it has to be significantly improved. This also makes us improve very economic security and develop this system at all, since we haven't developed it at all. Look at any of our strategic companies, whether I'm talking about Telecom, whether I'm talking about EPS, whether I'm talking about any other company, no company has corporate security, or if there's no economic security sector, and that's very bad. It's just that we don't have anything like that. This is very sensitive. This is about arms trafficking, and I think it's going to have to be very much improved in this segment, as well as in many other companies dealing with the production of ammunition and weapons, I believe you're going to have to speed it up here. On the other hand, I'm always happy when our army makes some money somewhere, and I believe we'll benefit from this. I keep saying that we have extremely trained personnel, especially as far as the military is concerned. I believe we can carry a lot of hell out especially through military technology because we have extraordinary people and experts at the military-technical institute. I claim that we have the best fit in the region as far as the military-technical institute is concerned, and these people are really masters of their work, they know that with really little resources to make something that is so good, which is really so perfect and to take it out, which is a great success. I hope we invest a lot more in our military-technical institute. Otherwise, I hope so, and I'd like it to be done in a way, let's say for making certain things that concern the security aspect, such as software that our public enterprises have, in the future, will be doing only military-related enterprises, such as the Military-Technical Institute, because we have to protect our businesses. He can't, say, software, in the IRS or anywhere he works for us by some private company because he's reading your data and something like that, who knows where. It's just, we have to integrate it somehow, that it's just a state-owned company, in this case, I think the military-technical institute is someone who's the most qualified. So, this kind of thing that only adopts us interferes with raising certain standards and, of course, interferes with the dedicated industry at all. I believe you'll do everything you can to make as much money as you can. I stand by that position – the stronger your army, the stronger your economy, and I believe that in the future our army will, and we have shown it on this military parade, we have something to show for it and that we will indeed be the most respectable force in the region, it certainly belongs to us and, of course, that as SNS and I will personally support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12466	I thank my colleague Djukanovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12467	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Gasic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, fascinates me as a MP, that all of us, no matter what political option we belong to, have a high awareness of what the state is, what the military industry is, what the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia is, and where its place in the world is at this time, as well as in the future. I know that all parliamentary groups will vote in voting day and adopt these two laws that are very important for the creation, that is to say, of the Serbian image that it has and which has been created since 2012. I would like to point out in particular that this is the third SNS minister since 2012. I know that the Ministry of Military Service is called an orderly system, that what's most valued in our society, and in all the polls, it's proven. I just want to point out in particular Mr. Gasic's agility, up-to-dateness and complicity, as he heads this ministry. I want him to keep running this military diplomacy the way he does. He became very recognizable both in Serbia and beyond its borders. These laws that we will adopt in the voting day show that we know that we must become part of the world, that we must become part of the EU, where we physically belong, and also historically, culturally. However you think about it, you know that the EU is something we need. Given that all EU member states have signed a law confirming the arms trade agreement, the most natural thing is for the Republic of Serbia to do so. Also, the agreement with the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information is the continuation of our peaceful policy that we have and which we show towards all countries that are particularly friendly towards us. Given that the Kingdom of Spain has a serious, principled foreign policy in the sense of non-recognition, so-called "unrecognizable". A non-existent Republic of Kosovo, which appreciates that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia is something that is very important and that is trying to make the way for us to join the EU easier. In that sense, we will all vote on these two laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12468	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Chabarkapa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12469	The Honored Chairman, the Honored Ministers of Gasic, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, I would also like to make a contribution to my address to the debate on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and our friendly state of the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. This Agreement already provides conditions for more effective co-operation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain in the areas of internal affairs, justice, foreign affairs, defence and security services. Thereafter, conditions are also created for co-operation with business entities from the territory of another State of the signatories of the Agreement in the field of the dedicated industry, with entities engaged in the production and provision of services for the needs of sector security. These objectives also entail the need for our two countries to work together against various challenges, risks, threats and security. It is important to point out that this agreement obliges both parties to take all appropriate measures to ensure, in accordance with their legislation and with respect to national interests and national security, the protection of classified information exchanged or created in accordance with this Agreement. This Agreement regulates the markings of secrecy, security principles, the translation and multiplication of classified information in the area of industrial security, the destruction of classified information and the transfer of classified information between the Signatory States. The Agreement defines the competent authorities responsible for its application. For the Republic of Serbia, these are the Office of the National Security and Security Council, and for the Kingdom of Spain they are State Secretary, Director of the National Intelligence Centre, National Security Office. For the purpose of applying this type of agreement, the Central Register for Foreign Secret Information has been established at the National Security and Security Council Office. Sub-registries are also formed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia's mission to NATO in Brussels and the mission of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Security and Information Agency. This shall ensure full control of classified information by all relevant institutions. It is freely said that this agreement represents a bridge of official strengthening bilateral co-operation with us, the friendly Kingdom of Spain, a country which is one of the EU's founders, whose membership is also Serbia's candidate. Appreciateing the importance of overall co-operation, but also the importance of this agreement, the SPS parliamentary group will give full support to its ratification in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12470	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12471	Thank you very much. Both draft laws will be supported by New Party MPs. There's no doubt about that. Both international agreements need Serbia, is good for Serbia and there is no doubt there. I wouldn't get into the details of the contract. I am sure that MPs know what this is about, and that citizens of Serbia will get information that will be complete for what is necessary for their knowledge of these agreements. What is a good opportunity when the Minister of Defence of the Government is present in parliament, that is to talk a little bit about the area. I think it's very important that we address this issue of the debts of the dedicated industry. Of course these debts haven't arisen in the last two, two and a half years, and of course they're rooting in an earlier period, but I think it's a little unusual to tell citizens that the dedicated industry is our developmental chance, to talk about big contracts, about historical agreements, about not knowing all the chances, and that we practically have the only real information about everything that over 15 billion dinars are tax debts of the dedicated industry. If I understand it, it's about 120m euros -- the flag of arms with seven billion and something, the Krusik with nearly two and a half billion, the Freedom Cachak over two and a half billion, the First Partizan, almost two billion and so on. It's got to be solved somehow. And for that part, as well as for everything else, in the state of law, it has to apply. If someone is a taxpayer, regardless of whether it's a military industry, whether someone lost their ID card or otherwise came into tax debt status, he has to be clean. Of course I know that paying off these debts would be impossible because these companies don't have enough money, but it's possible to write off and put an end to that problem and not be a topic anymore. Those factories are normally state-of-the-art. They can once again become state-owned, write off their debts and create mechanisms to avoid the accumulation of new debts. For decades I've been hearing about the developmental chances of this industry or that industry and the moss are big stories with little effect. I don't want to diminish the importance of the dedicated industry, but it depends deeply on politics and has always depended on politics in every country, and so politics must have a serious relationship with that industry. These international agreements are good for Serbia, but there is an international agreement that Serbia does not insist on signing, although it is practically the initiator of the agreement, which is a convention on the ban on tape ammunition. Citizens of Serbia, especially the city of Nis, but many others were victims and the biggest victims in Europe of tape ammunition. There is no excuse, so let it come from the top of our army, so that we may reduce our battletime. Casset ammunition is a couple of excellencies of aggressive ammunition, so it's not for the country's defence, it's for offensive action. Therefore, that is the reason for more and more, and from the petticoats of many victims who are victims of cluster ammunition, to sign the convention as soon as possible. You've given the resignation ministers the answer that we're going to sign, but not so fast. I don't understand why not so fast, if that's good. Finally, you said that "the sparrow" and "the pegasus" could not be on the parade because it would be dangerous for the security of the parade. I ask you no longer to frighten the people with such statements, because that statement can be put in order of those photographs from the village of Grgura, the municipality of Blace, where the commander-in-chief of the Yugoslav Army took pictures with a male singer and with an unknown ambassador of some of our friendly but distant countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12472	Minister Gasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12473	I just responded to the former defence minister that in 2013 a decision was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the conversion of debt to all enterprises of the dedicated industry. However, local self-government, some, have not done their part of the work, and that is why it is not done. One of those who struggles not to do so is just the former, now I think local self-government of the town of Kragujevac. When they accept that part of these companies' tax obligations are being converted into debt and owned by these companies, no problem will be that we will relax these companies. It's not just for water, it's for other things, and it's a big debt. The flag has the biggest debt, it is true. But I must commend myself here today in front of you and the citizens of Serbia, that the flag of arms has begun to pay all taxes, all contribute, all the privileges that have been due since last month and one of the conditions that have maximum support and the Ministry of Defence is precisely that all their obligations are settled neatly, because it is income and local self-government. As for the sparrow and the pegasus, I'm sorry that you understood it that way and you got scared, I see by you, they couldn't fly because we turned the disruptors on and it wasn't good that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12474	Minister, you have no obligation to communicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12475	We chose to show them, one piece through the special sparrow brigade, whether they were now flying above the column or on the trucks, but that's what we were able to produce, which our home mind managed to produce. Well done to the Military Technical Institute, just as MP Djukanovic just said. These people work, they do good. This year they had 70 million of their own revenues from the airport alone, and they worked for foreign countries of interrogation, Turkey and not to list all others. Also, a very important thing, although we have tried to get some foreign companies into the control of gambling and all, our Military Technical Institute has been given the opportunity that it can, together with Lutria Serbia, have all the certifications and to connect our businesses and not to have money going out of the country. As far as tape ammunition is concerned, I expect, given that it is not just our will and only our desire to do so, of course, we are aware of how many misfortunes and accidents the citizens of Nis have suffered from this tape ammunition, we are waiting for the other partners with whom we need it. We don't have a problem, because we don't have a weapon to accept this agreement to destroy the tape ammunition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12476	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will support these two laws - the law on the exchange of classified information and information with Spain...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12478	I ask the former minister not to disturb Minister Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12479	No, there's no need, they can't distract me as much as I can concentrate and talk. So, I will support the exchange of information and information for Spain, since we already have in practice cases that our organised criminal groups are very happy to stay in the territory of Spain, as well as some of our well-known businessmen, so-called, are very happy to have the money they've made from the poor, robbing the poor, they're very happy to get out in Spain, and they're successfully hiding there for a few years. So we already have that in practice. In order for this to not happen in the future, the exchange of information and data is very important. As far as the arms contract is concerned, I cannot support the discussion of a previous speaker colleague of mine from the parliamentary benches, I cannot support what he said, since I do not believe that his exposure is a product of his voluntary experience that lasted for zero days, which was to happen there in 1979-1980. Since that didn't happen, I take that kind of discussion with the reserve. But I'm still gonna say, so the citizens know that our ammunition didn't explode in Nis. It exploded the NATO Pact's ammunition, so it is necessary to sign a contract ban on tape ammunition, but to condition that it is signed by those who have so gladly dropped that tape ammunition on our country's territory, on our citizens, and on the city of Nis. Once again, I underline, for the record, no tape ammunition from the Yugoslav Army, the Serbian Army, exploded. A NATO pact exploded in that territory, but I would certainly welcome it if someone had convicted it, but I have not heard from my colleagues' previous speech that he has convicted it, but has condemned that we have not signed a ban on the use of tape ammunition, although we have not used it on anyone, and we have not used it more than once for those unfortunate 78 days only during the last wars. I support our country's signing such a contract, since weapons can easily come into possession of international terrorist groups, criminal groups, etc. This contract is very important to carry out additional arms control. As for the discussion of some former defence ministers, I would like to examine some other affairs, not those which he has cited and which do not exist, therefore, to examine the import of telecommunications equipment and means of connections from France, without appropriate legal regulations, to examine the purchase of expensive medical equipment – scanners, ultrasounds, magnetic resonances, for privileged companies, without proper legal procedure. I appeal to the Minister of Defence to deal with and obtaining medicines for medical military institutions, which took place between 2008 and 2012, since the company is owned by a natural person who builds the building along with the former Minister of Defense in the pasture next to the Holy Sava Temple. There's a possibility of corruption. There is a high probability that someone has come to the expensive clocks in a rather suspicious way, not to use any harsher word. In the end, let me say it's about a man whose mandate we've reached from a thousand tanks to 272. We peasants really appreciate the army, the army loves peasants, peasants love the army. I support our army. I would like to examine that "pancir" affair, or what it was called, the "satellite" affair, when a friend of the former defence minister, along with the other two Montenegrins, bought a satellite, or rented part of a satellite that will deliver the footage for 60m euros and some million euros, so we get those footage from 24 hours later. Two Montenegrins participated in the decision, and we were represented by the same man who was born in Montenegro, to investigate the case where we rented a satellite, paid for it with huge money. I'd like to be examined, too, and the purchase of 69,000 helmets, 69,000 vests, 69,000 uniforms, since at that point we barely had twenty thousand men who could have been combative, or militaryly usable, so those who had to wear helmets or uniforms. For every soldier, three helmets were bought. Here, other facts, but failure, there isn't. Why would a soldier need three helmets, three vests? That should be answered by the party of the former regime, but I support that all swords don't melt into plowshares, that we have plows and swords, that what the plow earns, that the sword preserves. We peasants have always supported the army. It should not be taken into account that the military projects "vrbač" and "pegas" were spoken by a wine-wine-wine-radar fly, so take this with your reserve. I want to say that the peasants will always support the army, regardless of what troubles in cities are usually from a population that doesn't understand the military, I'm talking about that part, God and a soldier are calling only in trouble. When trouble passes, God forgets, a soldier disrespects. We have to break up with this practice. We need to raise production and our economic power, raise military power, be the unquestionable regional force in the Balkans, which will be able to deter any force, including those that have been throwing cluster bombs at us so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12480	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12481	Dear President, I speak in the time of the Parliament Club. I think when a colleague calls himself a wine fly, you should react, and the predecessor called one of the former wine fly ministers. I don't mean me, but no matter who it is. Since various topics are open here about who knows what, who doesn't know who's informed and how informed, I want to say hello, if it's true that Serbia will sign the Convention on the Ban of Use and Manufacture of Casset Ammunition, but I have one question for you again. I don't know if you're mean or if someone's misinformed. This is the third time you've gotten the wrong information from the Air Force and told them here. I remind you, a helicopter, a summer trip, someone went to sea, came back from the sea, etc. I didn't hear you had someone replaced. Today, already, you have to do it because someone told you we don't have any tape ammunition. We have an English production tape ammunition, a BO 755, and everyone in the Air Force knows that. I think Mr. Stojanovic, as a former general, would have to know that information. When I talked about the weapons, I said Serbia is producing two unmanned sparrows and a pegasus. They didn't fly for the simple reason they weren't ready to fly. So the sparrow didn't pass the technical and experimental test at TOC, the pegasus didn't come to that point, but that it did. You know, if someone told you that the disruptors are alive, except for the telephony and radiowaves that are used to interfere with some bombs, they can interfere with drones in the air, so can Nikola Tesla, not the one who told you that. I'm afraid someone is seriously misinformed. Third thing. You just said I wasn't well informed and I don't know that the factory's first Partisan plant was launched on October 30th. Under the circumstances, I've set up a cornerstone for that factory. I'm glad you opened it. Where I left off, you guys keep going. It wasn't you? Never mind. Right now in that so-called. The holes work for about 150 workers, Mr. Minister, on gunpowder charge, capsilating, eye control and packaging. That's what someone told you to say here again, and that's not true. When will they be able to move? When a factory project is realized on Trešnica. Unfortunately, the project isn't working yet, but it'll be a moment when I'd like you to set up a cornerstone and open that factory. I think this is extremely important for "First Partizan" and for all of Užice. I know they bought one plant from a bankruptcy company near the so-called. Holes. Also, I think it's very good that you've made a conversion. Congratulations on that. I believe that now in Kragujevac you will be able to convert that debt to local self-government and that the flag of arms will have the opportunity to breathe. What I have to say is, you weren't the only ones who spoke here, you were told by other MPs, about some data, about praises, it's not true that no director has been removed. There's been a change of two. There's a new director in the SDPR. There is a new director in Krusik. It's impossible that no one's been replaced, if we have new directors. I will read to you, for the sake of you and for the sake of the public, a parallel analysis for the first three quarters of 2012 of SDPR. So the SDPR contracted in 2012 $43,616,782,19 in the US and European sectors, and realised 10,674,200,61. I hope you don't mind me reading these numbers. The Prime Minister likes to read the numbers, so we're conjoined to read them, too. The sector of Africa and the Middle East 68,639,607,00 dollars, and the realization of 141 million includes the realization of earlier years. For the first three quarters of Asia and the Far East, 88,306,195.23 dollars, and the realization of only 9.453,000, which means that the realisation failed compared to 2012 in the first three quarters of this year by 19.28% in the contract. Negotiation is not a topic, because there may be contracts, you know, but there should be realisation. What's the realisation look like? So I don't read now, and believe me, I have everything. Realisation for the first three quarters of 2012, the overall realization relating to the US and Europe, Africa and the Middle East, Asia and the Far East, is $75,200,796,02 in the first quarter of 2012. In 2014, 37,771.449. In translation, almost 50% weaker realization. This isn't a criticism. I really don't know why you're experiencing someone attacking you. I'm just worried. I used to work at the SDPR, though short, it's been 10 years, and I'm worried about a company that I might be coming back to tomorrow to help get back to the old trails. I'm trying to talk to you, and you're experiencing us hostilely, as are these fellow earners. What's the topic? The theme, Mr. Gasic, is weapons and military equipment are political products. If we prepare factories that aren't ready for more production than 250 million, if you roll up your sleeves, you start traveling and finding those countries that are friendly, maybe even make a score. If not, the arms contract we sign with the UN is irrelevant, because so far we have fully respected all international regulations, we have not exported to those countries that are under sanctions. We have a problem if we harmonize our foreign policy with EU policy, because there are markets that are under EU sanctions, and we have not imposed sanctions on them. That could be a problem in the announcement. I hope those sanctions, I don't just mean Russia, there's more, can a colleague from the Foreign Office tell you... If it comes off, it'll be fine. If the EU does not take off, we will get into trouble and we need to think about some other or third markets. Mr. Minister, the idea was to exchange information, to exchange the essence of this bill on contract signing, but also on the other hand to see what state our defence industry is in. It's not my idea to talk about the secretaries you mentioned earlier. You mentioned 29 secretaries. I don't think that's the level to be dealt with by the Secretary of Defense. I expect the defence minister to be involved in the projection and vision of the development of our defence industry, the defence system, and the secretaries to be dealt with by the docks, who have no other business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12482	The word has a minister named Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12483	Thank you, Mr. People's Parliament, for your sincere concern for the dedicated industry, for the Ministry of Defense. I just have a few things to deny you, of course, thank you for supporting me in my vision, and I want to deal with the vision, but the moment they start not to come out anymore and tell stories from the Ministry of Defense and that's how it's told in front of Serbian citizens. First, you said two directors were replaced, Stevan Nikcevic became State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, not removed, a man went into higher office than he was. I'm glad you just told Serbian citizens that you were in the SDPR last time you denied any connection to the SDPR and that you froze your status in the SDPR. When you've finished your parliamentary term, there's a seat in the SDPR. Is that right? And it's no wonder you have some information that unfortunately isn't quite accurate. First, because you say I opened the drive, it wasn't planned to open now, but I didn't want to open it now because the Security Information Agency is checking how and how the investment price in "First Partizan" Užice occurred. We're not going anywhere where there are any shops, so I can call them that, so we can go open up new plants. So, I should've, I'm glad that you're the one who put the cornerstone, and there's a cornerstone on this factory outside of town, but access roads cost a lot to do so that we can finish that part of the plant the same way. But the moment this whole thing is clear about who was doing it and how much was the original price of that investment and how much eventually it was done, I'd be happy to go because of the citizens of Uzic, that because of the workers of "The First Partisan" Užice, to open that drive there and here I call you, that as a former minister together, and you laid the foundation stone open that part. What you're talking about is tape ammunition and that, I wouldn't comment on it today. You may not be kept secret, and I have to take care of the system in which I am the first man at this point and I can't keep such information as you said I am today, first of all, that you signed certain contracts that bound us to certain things at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12484	Momir Stojanović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12485	Since the previous speaker mentioned me, I'd say you have to show a little more knowledge from military science. I am not an ex-general, but a retired general and always a general of the Serbian Army. Secondly, since so much controversy is being run around the business of Jugoimport SDPR, my question is - who, while I was working at the Ministry of Defence, has left the authority to carry arms and military equipment from the military service's jurisdiction to no one? In an operational sense, the Military Security Agency was responsible for monitoring the legality of the application of the Law on Transport of Weapons, and for a time it was expelled from the "Yugoimport" SDPR, and there was no one there, and then it was taken over by the Security and Information Agency. The second question, yes, and that's what I asked the Secretary of Defense last time, let's explore the business of Jugoimport SDPR? So let's figure out which papers and what kind of papers are the ammunition and weapons delivered to Iraq? Whether through the legal papers of our state, or through some other country. Who and how were they implanted in it, and are there any elements of the crime? You did not respond when before Mr. Sutanovac the speaker rudely injured here, first came out of the topic, Articles 104 and 106, and on the basis of a photo montage in a daily newspaper, insulted the President of the Republic, alluding that he was in an alcoholic state. It is generally known that the President of the Republic is a people's man and that there are many more than previous presidents among the people, but even if that is true, it is negligible in relation to the alcoholic state of the nation, thanks to those who ruled 12 years before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12486	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. I said the president of the state was intoxicated. But he didn't claim it. As you've identified yourself, I can't give you a replica. Don't throw it away. I watched the show this morning. It's not exactly what Pavicevic was talking about. The People's Messenger throws it out of place. That wasn't on the TV show this morning. Please don't. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mr. Gasic, the honored guests of the Ministry of the Government in resignation, as I have understood since Friday, today we are discussing two draft laws here, Mr. Former Minister. These are the draft laws on the confirmation of the arms trade agreement and the second proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Zoran Zivkovic has already said, we will vote in favour of these proposals and I would like to announce three observations regarding the content of these draft laws to Mr Zivkovic. First of all, I have to say it, and it is my impression that Minister Gasic reads the bill's best and most pronounced proposals, especially when we compare it to Mr. Vulin's appearance when Mr. Loncar comes here, without talking about Dr. Stefanovic. That's one observation, Mr. Gasic. The second observation, the bill on the confirmation of the arms trade contract and the content, I read it, I'm not from that matter, it seems to me that it's also very good in content. It's an international contract that rests on certain principles. The principles of the UN Charter are cited, of course we should be defined for these principles. It says: establishing and maintaining peace and security in the world, preventing conventional weapons from reaching an illegal market. I think it's all something good that our country should be involved in. An explanation for urgency, dear Mr. Gasic is also well, says here that the Republic of Serbia should fulfil its international obligations in the area of arms trafficking. I agree that we should meet all our international obligations. The only thing I couldn't figure out was, again, I'm allowing my indiscretion to be in that matter, but you're here to tell me what it is. I really didn't understand this for the "pegasus" and for the " sparrow" and for the military parade. I understood you like this, that it wasn't possible for a military parade to see it all to the full because of some interference from the ground. Does that mean Mr. Gasic that we can't secure an organization in the full sense of a military parade? Is that Mr. Gas? Third thing, Mr. Gasic, and this is what's most important to me right now. We will, of course, vote in favour of this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. It's actually taken over, we just here confirm what the goals are and what the area of application is. All this seems right to me, he says, to ensure the protection of classified information that is exchanged, he says - this agreement sets out procedures for the protection of classified information to be exchanged, etc. I consider it particularly important, Your Honor, Mr. Gasic, and part of the justification for the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement. Let me just read to you what it says here, because it seems to me that some of the MPs who debated did not read this, because they discussed the opposite of what is written here, and here's what it says -- the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement creates a legal framework for intensifying and improving co-operation with one of the EU and NATO member states, and then adds, in the National Security Strategy, I read that, otherwise, the RS has defined the fundamental definitions of national security policy among which is the improvement of relations with EU and NATO members, respected gentlemen. I understand this in the following way – that this government in resignation, as I understand it, is directed towards deepening co-operation with NATO to the possibility of gaining full membership and we believe, dear Mr Gasic, that this should be supported. We first said here – the west instead of a house with two doors to get out of that Russian film finally and to confirm what it says in some papers worth in our country, dear Mr. Gasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12488	Sign up, Minister. The word is Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12489	Thank you, Professor Pavicevic, for these questions. First, who knows which time to repeat here and before you and the citizens of Serbia that the RS and the Serbian Army is a military neutral and that our co-operation with the countries, as you have read, is nothing that has already been practiced in the world. Switzerland is also militaryly neutral and co-operates with both, Austria and a number of others, Ireland, Sweden. That's what I said once. So, by raising the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army, we have and we repeat our partners in both the east and the west. We want to cooperate with everyone and have good relations. I don't see what you've read here. As for flying, get into some things, and unlike some other former ministers, I have signed certain and committed myself to keeping some secrets. Some others aren't, unfortunately. There are also security assessments that were present during the military parade, in the presence of President Putin and of course we had to answer that. But it's not true, because if you're boasting on one side of the Military Technical Institute, then you say he couldn't fly because he wasn't ready, you're quite contradictory. So, absolutely everything VTI's out of line is right. Processes are being completed at the Technical Experience Centre and we have these resources to manage. Now, was it really... I didn't see any military parades in the world flying drones over tanks, machines. It doesn't mean anything that they were on the trucks themselves, but we're in production. If you'd been with me at the Airmitting in Vrsac, you could have seen the Pegasus fly. I'll call you next time. It's not hard for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12490	I have an MP, Zoran Babic, on the list, who gave the post to Vladimir Pavicev, and now he's on his way. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12491	Thank you, Madam President. Article 7, I will read the first paragraph – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think you broke it because Mr. Pavicevic is three, four times that the government is resigning and the ministers are resigning. Madam President, this National Assembly of Members of the SNS is taking very seriously the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I have now received from citizens several SMS messages that Mr Pavicevic apologizes to both the citizens and the Government and to us MPs. I would like to ask Professor Pavic to apologize to us, too, to Minister Gasic, the Government of RS and the citizens of RS. If not on behalf of something, then on behalf of academic congratulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12492	Ambassador, you have called for article 7. I think you're wrong. (National Ambassador Marko Atlagic, from the place: Article 107.) Article 107, since Article 7 is something... It's really very difficult for me to interrupt MPs right after every observation they have. It is absolutely clear to the Serbian public that it has nothing to do with the truth. We can't. We've reacted more than once. They will and speak, and they will say it, and that is it. (National Ambassador Marko Atlagic, from the place: Give a warning. ) I cannot warn because only then would there be a letter to international and all other organisations that the non-democratic government of the Serbian parliament. So, I'll take it. Thank you. It's Zoran Babic's turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12493	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Atlagic beat me to some things. I didn't understand the speech of the previous speaker that way because he was always talking to the former minister, without wanting to challenge Mr. Sutanovec in a replica and not wanting to use it – formerly, I thought all the time that Mr. Pavicevic was talking to the only former minister here in the O.R., and that's Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. I don't see, although someone -- formerly, and in the meantime Mr. Petrovic arrived, but he wasn't in the O.R. at the time, so I don't see so much scary, not so dangerous, not so deadly, in the end, if someone becomes a former minister. You know, it's perfectly normal. No one was born in a chair and no one will end up in that chair. We are all normal and decent people and that – the former minister is not so bad to accept and move on. I see the biggest problem in a former MP who, again, I don't know how he got on our list of speakers and in the O.R., and again, he's been broken by a series of laws and Rules of Procedure. I really don't understand how the former MPs who can come to the House of the People's Assembly, who have the right, and we're going to be former, perfectly normal, we're going to go to the library, to the archives, but when the former MPs go into the O.R., and they still want to say it, it's already dangerous. As far as Serbia's Army, the Serbian Army, although I will speak only as an amateur citizen in relation to some professionals, and that professional, I think, is Minister Bratislava Gasic, that someone is not called, but I will speak primarily as a man. Serbia's army is one of the pillars not only of defence but of the pillars of our society. The army has always been accompanied by music, joy, song. The army was always proud. After these events over the past few months, after what we did not want, but also what we wanted, I think that, Mr. Gasic, you have managed to trust the military, which has been violated by some bad things in the past and some, unfortunately, unsolved things from a little closer to the past, you have managed to restore that reputation that, together with the reputation of the Serbian Orthodox Church, has always existed in our people. What we didn't want was floods that hit a large part of Serbia's territory. I was present, as I believe most colleagues were present in this room, and your involvement, Mr. Gasic, and Mr. Dikovic, Chief of Staff, but the most important involvement is the large number of members of all the Serb Army. If the Serbian Army hadn't given its hand at that time, had not exported its mechanism, had it not provided its knowledge, that the members of the Interior Ministry and Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic had done the same, I am sure that the number of victims and the accident and damage that hit us would have been far greater. It is recognised by Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens appreciate it, and therefore confidence in Serbia's military is growing. What we wanted, it's a parade. It's a pride parade. A 29-year parade, involving more than four and a half thousand members of the Serbian Army, involving a large number of machinery, seems to me to be slightly more than 300 vehicles, 42-43 half and 30 and some planes. We are proud, or vice versa, to accept that you are a professional, Mr. Gasic, are proving my words, we are proud of what we have, which may not be spectacular, but with what we have proudly went out primarily in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of the world public, in front of the president of the state, but also in front of the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin. The dedicated industry is somehow one of the branches of the Serbian Army that goes in the background, but without which you can't. Assembles are always remembered, tanks are always remembered, weapons are remembered, but those people are not remembered, who are in all parts of Serbia, who are the weapons and the products. I would also point out Užice, and "The First Partizan", and "Utva", and "Krusik" in Valjevo, often mentioned here, and I will mention it here, but not with papers, but with official data, data that are verifiable as those 27 secretaries, and "The flag of arms" in Kragujevac, and "The first spark" – the intended production of Barič, and "Freedom" Cačak, and "Milan Blažević - intended" Luciani, and "The first five-year-old" Tristenik – intended, in my neighbourhood in Tristenik and "Teleoptik Žiroscopes" in Zemun. What I could see, Mr. Minister, is that financial indicators, I don't wave papers that I'd like them to be, where I'm lucky that such indicators were in the past, where I'm lucky that this scale was raised by success in the past, so we can compete as Sergei Bupka used to compete with himself by raising that scale by one centimetre. Although you're a professional even when you were Mayor of Kruševec and now as Minister of Defence, it wasn't hard for you to pick up and skip that scale that was, not on the low branches, but it might have been on the floor and below. I do not want to burden the Assembly and this time, but I will be happy to share with all fellow Members of the People and show the public what a frighteningly bad data it was until 2012. I'm going to deal with Krusukom, so much mentioned, so much the favorite theme of some who wanted to play it successfully by working in the offices more than 65% of the company, working in the direction, and 35% of the companies in production, by someone wanting to present 27 secretaries and the latest A6 sports line audio as an improvement in production. The truth is different. The total commitment of Krusika to the state, banks, Southport to SDPR and suppliers was 4.4 billion dinars in January of this year, while taking over from such capable, large and strong professionals, self-called professionals. Only the loss in 2013, and I'm talking about that scale on such low branches, Mr. Minister Gasic, was 994.5 million dinars. Unconnected work experience for all employees since contributions and associated taxes have not been paid since 2010. Is there anyone who would be proud of these results and business indicators? Would anyone be proud that 1265 employees for almost four years had no social security, no pension, no health care, nothing? A large part of the contracts concluded during 2012 and 2013, which were to be implemented in 2014, have been charged in advance, and the money spent mostly non-intentional, most of the part to pay the employees and those, I will now tell you exactly, of the 1265 employees 515 worked in production and the rest directed. In the financial and commercial business sector 126 employees, 994 million dinars were lost. In the logistics sector 120, in development, it's okay, 159, and that would make me happy if we had more and more employees in development, but there are also these famous 27 secretaries. The directors of the sector had private drivers, private secretaries, cars, etc. Indicators. Total income by nine months 2014 compared to nine months 2013 of such devastating management of Krusik, total income increased by 27%, total expenditure decreased by 20%. From a minus of 506,000,315 dinars, we've come to a modest profit in nine months, and that gain is 4,697,000 dinars. Don't just look at it for a profit of nearly five million dinars. And the profit is this difference, this difference from a minus of 500 million dinars to a five million plus. We must also thank the Ministry of Defence and the SDPR and Mr. Petkovic Mladen, general director of Krusika, because in nine months he managed to make such a big step as is measured by a figure of 505 million dinars. In February 2014, not to forget those people who had an unrelated job internship, the internship was only connected in February to 31 employees and, you see, 15 million dinars from their own funds were spent. How much damage has been done in the last three years because these people, and there were 1265, had no associated internship? Since the beginning of 2014, new contracts worth $43.7m have been concluded. By moving employees from the administration to manufacturing parts, the relationship between employees in production and directing has changed, so probably one of those 27 secretaries ended up in production, so the employees in the non-productive directorship now account for 24.6% as opposed to 60% as before, compared to 60% in the previous period. What makes me particularly happy, as a citizen of this country, is that in the coming period in Krusik, I am planning to increase the number of employees, but production employees, not those who will wash Audi A6, sports lines, for the director, not those who will drive that director, not the one who will bring a burek for those 27 secretaries, but for the new 150 employees in the production that will work, who will create new values, which will make new products, which will make money for both the SDPR and the Ministry of Defence and for our country. What I would also like to point out, Mr. Minister, is, I have data from 2005, data from 2005 to 2014, about the number of permits issued annually for the export of arms and military equipment and for the import of arms and military equipment. What is true, which is that by 2012, is somehow a fixed number of permits and it varies from 274 licences in 2005, up to 366 permits in 2012, for export, with one drop, not so large in 2007, with 372 permits. What makes me happy, which is that in 2012 also made, issued 366 permits, and in 2013 for export, for export, deliberately speaking for export, 444 permits. Within a year, the number of licenses issued has increased, I will repeat for export, because we have to conjecture our production and turn to export, from 360 to a year's average of 2005 to 2012, to 440 in a year's time, i.e. 84's licenses were produced more, more exported, more charged, more funds came to our country. At the same time, the number of arms import licences varied and was around 140, from 140 to 180 licenses. What's true is that every year we've had surpluses at the amount of imports and exports for that year, we've always had surpluses, I don't want to show anything that isn't. However, that surplus ranged from 243 million US dollars to 400, we won't count in 2012, excuse me, up to $356 American dollars. In 2012, when the SNS assumes responsibility and obligation to exercise power, that surplus has increased to 430 million US dollars, and in 2013, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't have to tell you about this, because I'm sure as a professional, a real professional, that and you know, that difference is 721 million US dollars. I'd like to see you in this House next year, Mr. Minister, under some other laws. You're raising a ladder, which I believe the former can't even look at, or see where it is, but you yourself, like Sergei Bupka, are raising that scale and seeing you next year end up with one round number of a billion U.S. dollar surpluses in 2014. I wish you that as a citizen, as your colleague, friend and party colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12494	Thank you. Does anyone under article 96 want to use their rights? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on draft laws under points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Moving to the next point. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts in the agenda of points 6, 7 and 8, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that under Article 193 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a list of candidates for the President of the Competition Commission, a list of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Council and a proposal for a decision amending the decision to establish the composition of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. Does the Proposer's representative, or does the Proposer, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12495	Dear President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, today is my special pleasure that one job that we started last year, especially when we talk about independent institutions, institutions that are in charge of the work of the Serbian Parliament. Competition and competitiveness are concepts for the common good of our society and this is one of the most useful phenomena in the economy that we can look at from an economic and legal aspect. From a legal point of view, we have a part that refers to what's called the so-called "Charlie." cartel, or anti-monopolis law. From an economic point of view to an analysis of the concentration of monopoly on the market. What is interesting to say is that competitiveness is a broader concept than competition itself, and in fact it shows us that it is a total set of factors that determine the productivity of a single country. Today, after much time, after the amendments and the addition of the laws that were in place on 31 October 2013, in which we would practically define this institution from a new aspect, that is, such a way of working that it actually works, given that it has not been able to do so so so far, because it has had a president who has been on leave since 2012 and a member who has obtained a condition for retirement. We're getting into a situation where we suggest this list. I would only give that there have been chronologically certain stages in the decision-making process that we have come to this list as a proposing on behalf of the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, that the amendment and addition of the law adopted here in this House was 31 October 2013, that the application of the law began in November of the month, means eight days since the date of publication of this law in "The Official Messenger". When a competition was launched on 27 November by the then-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the daily "Politika" and on the Serbian parliament's website. What is interesting to say is that all the applications arrived within the deadline of 15 December 2013, and then we were hit by election call on 28th and the disbandment of the Assembly on 28th January 2014. The elections took place on 16 March, as everyone knows, and the constitution of the new convocation and the committee that was authorised to take this job that started and ended on 9 May 2014. From 9 May to practically September, we had floods, we had the work of the Committee, which was in the direction of the adoption of reform laws that the Committee exclusively deals with, and then from 19 June and 24 June and 1 July, we shared all candidates and arranged interviews with all those candidates who responded to the competition. It should be said that 13 candidates have appeared for the President of the Competition Protection Commission, and only one is elected. A list of four members of the Competition Protection Commission reported 24 candidates. As the first among the equal in the Committee I chaired, I was a population that although the law gave the opportunity for the candidate to be twice as much as proposed, this means that the Committee could have come out with a proposal for two presidential candidates and, say, five to eight candidates for members of the Council. I considered it appropriate that we still need a consensus to bring some, especially when it comes to such institutions that are within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. I can tell you that these negotiations, i.e. consultations with the board members, were going very well, but what we are required by the law is that of the five members of the Commission, the minimum two must be economists. So in the end, we came up with certain solutions that we think are only related to the work of the Commission, and that we are practically three new members in line with their biographies that you have received in addition to this session, that is, this part of the agenda, you will see that they are indeed above the average of the general relevance in this topic. What is interesting to say is that in all these interviews, this process of talks with candidates was indeed extremely transparent, and that means that each of the MPs in this Assembly and Serbian citizens could be directly included in the video link from the Serbian Parliament website, to simply enter live talks that were not even a little bit, and those issues we asked were not easy for all candidates. At the end of the consensus on 7 October, before that, we formed a working group that reviewed all the documentation of the candidates who applied for the contest and we came to the conclusion that every candidate we had to say by voting. We have received a list of candidates, and for the president we have given one candidate, the Competition Protection Commission, and for members of the Competition Protection Council, four candidates. Finally, I can tell you that in the 2014 report for the European Commission on the side of 34, there is a lot of talk about competition policy, which is very important for us, for Serbia, especially because we are in a constant transition, i.e. from the planning to the market economy and wherever our representatives and prime ministers, the presidents have visits with senior EU officials, talking about how competition is essentially one of the most important factors in the development of macro and micro-economic conditions that Serbia will have to face, and that we are not only doing this because of the EU, but rather because of ourselves, but to create an ambience in which it will be able to operate as many economic operators as possible, that in this game we apply new technologies, new knowledge, that reforming the education system, as it is given on the 34th page of the European Commission's 2014 report, and reducing the impact of the state with its own budgets, will become a simple point in which it becomes 36. What I would like to say in the end, and maybe you haven't noticed, which is that candidates who are proposed simply have a lot of experience in this area, but I've connected them to this part of the education system, they're related to the education system, which is of great importance to us. Now I would like to tell you something practical about the candidate list, first of all for the president, we gave it and the Committee adopted a candidate Dr Milo Obradovic, whose biography you can see in the largest part, the experience in the area of the economy, which is defined by law, which is that it has a lot of experience in the work of the state authorities, the Ministry of Education, and the largest part that applies to finance, audit, analysis, assessment of the market monopoly and that part that applies to that economic part that is one of our most interesting, which we have introduced with changes and additions, in one quality way we have come up with even the future work of this Commission. What I'm trying to say is that this concept of the Commission's practical work so far in the region doesn't have all countries. For example, first of all, if we look at Montenegro for example, they in general, the work of the Competition Protection Commission itself is in the power of the Government, and we are in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and therefore we are focusing on developed countries, and the Commission has certain contracts with Hungary, Russia and some other countries that in this qualitative way practically give recommendations that we are dealing with when we choose candidates, and what I want to do is that based on all of these practical talks with all the candidates so far, we wanted to see how many such candidates can really stand everything that they expect in the future. In November, this Commission expects the first EU-wide exploiting screening for Chapter 8, which is a chapter on the competitiveness of the economy. What is the future in line with European standards is that you have to come into a situation to end at some point in 2020 all subsidies, i.e. State support, any company, especially those relating to state-owned enterprises. I'm sure that moment will come. At this point, it is not realistic, but simply, by creating better business conditions, by the Commission's work which will have to deal with all its problems, with companies that will always strive to have a monopoly on the market, by raising the scale that we have talked about and working on some other bodies, Serbia will have to deal with such problems. What's interesting is, it'll be all for the benefit of the citizens, because the increase in competition, it just drops prices on the market, citizens have higher economic, commercial activity, the budget is better, more efficient on that basis, and you have financial security, as far as the budget is concerned. The proposal for the president of this Commission is a man who graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, who, in addition to his professional movement in the Ministry of Education and Public Enterprises, has certain experiences relating to financial audit, EU certificates in financial management and control, that is very important, especially when we talk about competitiveness. When we talk about members and the list of candidates for the Commission's Council, the proposals are Dr Veljko Milutinovic, Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinović, Dr Marko Obradovic and Mr Ivan Ugrin. I think you have had the opportunity to see that candidates for members of the Council, such as Mr. Veljko Milutinović, who had experience in the work of the EU, and especially in the work concerning competition policy, which is, by the way, a lawyer, means, Dr. legal science, is really talking about the competence of his biography and I don't have much to add. As for Mr. Mark Obradovic, you can also see about his competence on the basis of his CV, which, in addition to finishing his economic college, ended up at Harvard and what he was doing, and from the economic profession, he is talking about market analysis and monopoly concentration, and I would also have nothing to add. The proposals concerning Mrs Miskovic and Mr Ivan Ugrin are related to the work of the commission itself. What we had the opportunity to hear from Mrs Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinovic that it was a person who was not a member of the council but was working and the Commissioner is in the commission itself, but is engaged in competition for more than 16 years, since the first moments when there was a federal state and when the first practical reference was made to this topic and which is introduced into a system of such institutes and public policies, which relate to competition policy, and when we talk about Mr Ugrin, then as the only member of the council that was in the past, we can say that he was a man with a really great experience. In addition to these proposals, I would say that we are at the point of view that all these candidates satisfy the conditions, there was one working group within the board that has practically defined that they, as a single set of people who have worked from the Commission institution for so many years and some new fresh blood, which young people have been educated, who have had ties to practically this topic and work and contacts with the European Commission and the world, will give a new quality in the work of this institution. I think that their work reports, we will have the opportunity to discuss here and I think that their, practically new labour concept, in line with the European directives, will give us a lot of chances in the future that Serbia will, in a commercial sense, be one of the strictly regulated states where order will be known and which will have predictable business. I'm open to discussion and questions of anyone about the candidate, because we've worked really hard on this and for a long time, but I can tell you that I think this effort will ultimately give good results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12496	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12497	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs who attended the Committee's meetings when a public inquiry or examination of all candidates was carried out, both for the president of the Commission and for the members, I am simply obliged to bring my own judgment to the public on this whole procedure. I mentioned this commission the other day when the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, was in this room, and he explained the budget rebalancing. Why did I mention her? For one reason only, because the president of this commission we now choose should have received, without this 10% reduction, believe it or not from 350,000 dinars in the net. Watch out, 350,000 dinars a man receiving and no wonder nearly 30 candidates have appeared, some of whom are very well-known to the public, as respected Professor Stevan Lilic, who, on my question, is how many parties he has changed, believe me, he himself could not remember. Dear fellow MPs, what I think we should do as Parliament and, in general, all of us individually to plead, is it possible for this country in which we are now reducing both wages and pensions that we have one such commission that existed, of course, in previous years? This commission has been brought to us a long time ago, and as it works, you can see if you chat for a little, at least five minutes, as they say on the Internet, and you can see that the margins in Serbia are in retail among the largest in Europe. Then imagine the incredible situation that we have a commission that needs to boost competition, to fight monopolies, to receive an enormous salary for its work, and on the other hand, when you enter shops, you see that the margins of traders are about 50%. According to this very information to all of you and who are watching this transmission and also here to fellow Members of Parliament it is clear that this commission is simply not doing well and that the first thing we should do is limit their salaries and that in the 2015 budget, these people should not be able to cross the maximum of 150,000 dinars, at least to be at the level of MPs. On the other hand, what is interesting data, I have to put it out, it is not disputed that Mr Miloje Obradovic, among all the candidates, is probably the best candidate for the president of the commission and I voted for him myself and it is not at all controversial, but what I want to tell my fellow Members, that among the proposed there is a gentleman named Marko Obradovic, and that is the only candidate against whom I am, my little one voted and was against. I want to tell you why I was against him. I don't know a colleague, believe me, I saw him the first time he showed up on the Committee on Business, on that so-called. "public interrogation," but what was amazing to me was that this gentleman represented Miskovic, whom we all often mentioned as the main tycoon in Serbia and the man who got rich and got rich and had the biggest bounceboard when he bought the "C Market", and we have witnessed these affairs now through the press and unfortunately, the other day and the death of Mr. Radulovic, former director of the "C Market" who has strongly accused some people for the whole story, and between them and Miskovic. What's going on? The man representing the commission for the fight against Monopoly Miskovic is Mr. Marko Obradovic. This man, indisputably, has a biography of impressive, it's undeniable that he was at Harvard, it's all right, but it's a matter of moral responsibility. What I have to say to the people's language was annoying to the board itself, is that it represents something that its owner, i.e. the owner of the company he worked for, could by phone call end, which was to invite someone from the government at the time, and of course he had everything possible to do with the government and to finish, that something that I have to say that the sparrows too saw that the merger of these maxi and later the C market led to the fact that we in retail had clean monopolys, that they had over 60% of the retail market in Serbia and over 50% of the wholesale markets, that we had led to the biggest margins of trade in Europe and that it all contributed to this collapse. What was the biggest problem was that these trading houses held monopolies and did not pay suppliers. In that entire chain, those people who were in Serbia's production, so the agricultural producers, they all suffered, only Miskovic got rich. Now we, the man who represented Miskovic, should vote here in this House, on this tide to protect us now, imagine, the Serbian market, that he is a nice man protecting us from new monopolies. Really, believe me, first of all I'm telling you, I've been talking to the board, and I've asked my colleagues to think this through. We unfortunately have so many agencies in Serbia, and this isn't an agency, this is a commission, but it's all so-called. "independent regulatory bodies" and those independent bodies should contribute to better living for ordinary citizens in Serbia. How is it going to live better if these independent regulatory bodies are going to have people sitting around who have contributed to us being in the situation we're in today? That's why I ask you all to think again and see if it's possible that, of course, everyone will vote on their conscience, that people like this just don't propose anymore. It may seem to someone that this item of the agenda is less important than some earlier, and this is seen here in the half-empty room, but believe me, this commission will be good at determining what our purchasing power will be in the coming years in Serbia and how much together, when we go shopping with the family, we will spend money on buying what it takes for one family, for one home budget. If we want to simply keep more money in our pocket, this commission has to work safely. For this reason, we must choose really people who, apart from a biography that can be impressive, school supplies and school titles and everything else, must have moral integrity, to protect in that commission the interests of Serbian citizens above all. For the other candidates, I voted absolutely, and of course I will support them in the voting day, as well as the NS parliamentary group. This may also be for all of us to learn to pay attention when we choose people, these independent regulatory bodies, and on the other hand, and that this Parliament has a constant initiative to try, if this year 2014 is at an end and if we fail this year, to reduce this number of agencies in the following year, to cut salaries in these agencies, not to mention the amount of salary in this commission. Guys, how much longer? If we have to save, everyone has to save. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12498	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Dr. Tomic, I really appreciate you and your knowledge...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12500	Mr. Stefanovic, please don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12501	Okay, this is affirmative. I hope you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12502	Please speak to me as chairman, and Mrs. Tomic will hear that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12503	Thank you. So, since it is about selecting the President of the Commission and members of the Competition or Competitiveness Council, I have to say a few things that I have noticed in the selection process of candidates, i.e. proposing candidates and the very importance of this institution. I think it's clear to everyone, who's been doing this job both in the Assembly and in the Government, that this is one of the most important institutions in our system, unfortunately, it hasn't worked properly for years, to be gentle. It is good to choose members of the Council today, i.e. Members of the Commission and the President of the Commission. We have to do it as soon as possible and in that sense we really support it. I have some other few grudges that hopefully won't affect your judgment and the assessment by most of what we as a minority suggest here. So, this Commission is also very important for the process of Serbia's European integration and in the report, and it says that institutions should be strengthened and especially in this segment, and that they have not functioned adequately so far, and that is a well-known thing. I agree with my colleague Jovanovic, who spoke about the fact that, at a time when the government really has an ambitious programme of savings, a wave over the back of pensioners and employees, we should, for example, cut the salary from 350,000 to some appropriate amount, i.e. to be proposed through an adequate procedure. I know you couldn't do it yourself, but maybe we could do something about it as a Serbian Parliament, and I think I'll give you a proposal right at the beginning, that Dr Tomic call for a public hearing within the Committee where then elected members of the Commission and its president would be invited, that we all discuss together the problems that exist in the Commission's functioning, their powers and what the plan for their further functioning is. I think that would be useful for both the Serbian Assembly and the Serbian citizens, if you want the way this facility works. I have to say, I noticed something else. Mr Miloje Obradovic, with all due respect to him indeed, seems to me that his biography, which is quite impressively presented here, is not exactly to boast about other candidates. We've now heard there were 30 candidates for the President of the Commission. I noticed that his résumé was not so much, to say, fascinating that he was proposed by the Committee, but I can see that he has a mostly internal audit experience in the field of education institutions and experience in the jobs of the deputy director of a public enterprise involved in publishing work, in this case "Official Messenger". So it's undeniable. At the meeting of the Committee of Mr Obradovic, he formally proposed a colleague Ivana Dinic from the SPS, which shows me in essence that there is obviously some agreement between the SNS and the SPS to show that, behold, the SNS does not propose itself candidates. But what is what the majority estimate of Mr. Milivo Obradovic is compared to the other candidates? With great respect to Dr. Tomic, but I would also like for the public to have this thing divorced immediately and that doubt that is not my own, believe me, but I have to ask that question since the citizens called me who noticed it, that he was relatively short of time being a professor at a private university as part of the Alpha University. In his biography, he writes – Dr Miloje Obradovic was chosen to call a doctor for the narrow scientific field of economy and finance, lecture on master and basic studies, but does not say where. Now, since it's the Alpha University, it's now opening, as you know, a brand-new segment, or it's been until recently. If it were true that he was at Alpha University or was at Alpha University until recently, and I would be very surprised that Mrs. Tomic did not know that, did you, Mrs. Tomic, exempt yourself from voting at the Committee session and did Mr. Dragomir Karic opted out of the vote? Why? First, colleague Tomic is a professor at Alpha University. So there's a conflict of interest possible and it's public data from your biography, which I think is great. Secondly, Alpha University is a legal follower of BK University. So it is Mr Karic's family business and members of his family, and Mr Karic is a member of the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism, etc. If two members of the Committee have not been exempted from the vote, and there are these elements, therefore, I say, if these elements exist, at least in that procedural sense, some other body may come to reject this proposal and bring it down because of conflicts of interest. We can make an analogy of what happened in the case of Justice Minister Selakovic, who did not opt out at the Council of State and the High Council of Justice when it was voted that some...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12504	Mr. Stefanovic, what does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12505	Here, I'm finishing my sentence. So some of his close men are elected to judicial office? This assembly therefore has a request from the Anti-Corruption Agency that we are facing. I'm afraid we have a new trend, that it's not just Megatrend who makes the staff, but that there's also an Alpha University. Since the protection of competition is very important and serious branch of law and we believe that if these elements exist that I was saying that there is a possibility that we may have major problems because, I repeat, if there are these elements – Alpha University, Mr Karic and Dr Tomic, then we could not choose this man, that is, the vote on the Committee is nothing, because it is a conflict of interest. Also, Mr. Marko Obradovic, who was mentioned here as a member of this commission, since you will vote all, did represent Mr. Miskovic in one significant period and he was a deputy head of cabinet of Mr. Kostunica and was close to Mr. Labus, but he worked for Delta Holding for four years and it was a consultation on strategic decisions, counselling and coordination of activities on competition issues, corporate relations with state-holders, on Cyrillic, and the establishment and management of the airline. It's some of the jobs the gentleman's been doing. So it is a really awkward question for the majority because it is constantly mentioned as someone close to the opposition, and you, his adviser, one of the closest people, are now proposing to be a member of the Competition Protection Commission. It's a very awkward thing, politically. I'm curious to know how you think you're gonna justify it and what's going to be the result of this election, and does the fact that Mr. Prime Minister called Mr. Miskovican a public counseling show that all those campaign stories were false? I'd have to add one more thing to the future, probably, president, Mr. Milo Obradovic, which bothered me in a biography that's really impressive, it's that he was on a study visit to France. Here, there was a man on a study visit to France and he put it in his biography. Imagine that, please, if some of these people, including the MPs, put where they were all on the journey to their biography, couldn't do it in print, really, if they did, and we couldn't sit in benches of so much paper. Of course, there's another proposal, but this time affirmatively, Mr. Chairman, there will be no reason for your intervention. It is about amending the Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. A very important process for the Republic of Serbia. Namely, that's where Dr. Vladimir Orlic is proposed, here present, for which I really only have the most beautiful words and I think this is a great, maybe a micro example of you sometimes making a smart and good suggestion in some way, so good for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12506	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. I'm especially glad that last thing you said. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12507	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the composition of the Commission and the President of the Commission are not just a matter of staff. Namely, freedom of competition, i.e. protection from monopoly, is one of the constitutional categories, a constitutional category due to the fact that monopolies are a fundamental danger to market freedom. In all Western countries, where the market is established, it is one of the basic constitutional principles. There is no freedom of competition if there are monopolies, or if the market is divided or if the market is controlled by one company or more related companies. We're in a position where the ownership structure of companies is being monitored, but it's not clear to the end. Namely, there are companies that own each other. So Company A has property in Company B, and Company B has property in Company A. There have been talks about this subject over the past year, two. Unfortunately, this is what consumers feel best on their skin. It is known that some products in these companies A and B are more expensive on the Serbian market than on the Croatian market, Hungary, neighbouring countries. Why? Because, apparently, they have a dominant position enough to share the market and settle prices. We come to the question – who will control those monopolies? We come to a topic – who are members of these committees? I will not personally enter names and their biography today, but we have heard enough arguments on the part of parties belonging to the ruling coalition and opposition parties, that there is serious doubt under A – in competence and under B – that there was the possibility that some people who decided about the members of the commission were not to the end independent and impartial. In this regard, since it is a very important issue and it is not a question of 350,000 salaries that these people will receive, but of the price of products on the Serbian market that Serbian citizens will pay. If there are people who are under the influence of one man, one party, who are not independent, there is nothing of the freedom of the market. The creation of a monopoly continues. We will continue to have the situation that Serbia is the most expensive commodity in the region. You probably heard the story that some products are more expensive. Citizens, unfortunately, cannot check it, as they are less and less able to travel beyond Serbia's borders, that some products are cheaper both in Austria and Germany and in some other countries compared to Serbia, compared to companies owned by trade chains in Serbia. That is why I believe that the proposing should withdraw this proposal, that the MPs, or the promoters, re-analyze each individual candidate. I think that the proposings and the professional public of Serbia have a very large choice for people in the area. The issue of competition protection is a couple of excellencies of the subject some people are dealing with, which is an area of expertise, which is well aware of the ways and models of the creation of monopoly. I think these people should be members of the committee. There are also university professors and people who work in economic institutes and people who worked in the world and know what free competition means. This is an area for which citizens still have insufficient insight into what it means for them. Therefore, my proposal is to withdraw these proposals and to reconsider all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12508	Thank you. The word is by professor Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, based on the author's authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12509	First of all, when we talk about competition today, we can't help but touch what turned out to be the most painful thing in this discussion, and that's the pay issue. The question of pay in general, when we talk about the Competition Protection Commission, is not a matter within the competence of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has practically made decisions. The decisions were very difficult in terms of how to make a decision based on the candidates who made the call, and 13 candidates reported to the president and 24 candidates for members of the council. What was interesting for the members of the SNS, who were practically members of the Committee, who were supposed to make a decision, is that not everyone who wanted to be members of the council reported to the presidency, so that we were practically candidates with a very good CV had to accept as members of the council, and perhaps they were really good candidates for the president. What's certainly interesting is that we are in an interview that was organised on three occasions, in which 24 candidates were heard in a way and discussed in a completely open atmosphere of whether they were paid, to what point they looked at this topic, when we were talking about competitiveness, whether they were from legal, whether they were in practice and having little experience of working, whether they were making decisions in terms of which they were members of the council, and I think about five candidates who were members of the council and who were involved in preparing the documents themselves that were coming to the decision-making committee, it was seen that this topic was really very interesting, but that this body and that institution had practically died since 2012, in their work, for the simple reason that the chairman was on sick leave in 2012. What we had was interesting as MPs to make a decision on which candidates would be relevant in the area, and that they could make an adequate contribution to this subject, and to consider that they were indeed two candidates from the economic profession, a minimum, and others to be lawyers. What was certainly interesting in this topic for us, and that was that we had a situation in our economy that certain companies held a monopoly on the market with their products, with their business, but since 2012 it has not been the case. For the simple reason that one of the biggest monopolies, which is Mr. Miskovic, and then I will answer and answer the questions of my colleagues who have asked, especially for candidates who have worked for such a thing... These talks were an interesting fundamental issue that we asked, as MPs, to all candidates – how they see that out of the 16 rulings, i.e. the Commission's decision, 12 fell in court, i.e. the state had to set aside large amounts of money to pay for all those companies that had practically hurt the competition, and they were simply never responsible for it, they were even rewarded. So one of the companies received as much as 750m euros for the verdict that fell in court. I want to say that this area is really sensitive, especially at times when you want to set up a competition, and you have economic reforms, and you have to respect EU standards and you have to act in line with raising the level of all legal solutions, in terms of protecting competition, or destroying all kinds of monopolys, so that the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, who were members of the Committee, were really having a difficult task. What the objections to the selection of these candidates were, I will respond as President of the Commission later, but I think that the Serbian Progressive Party has worked really to take all the facts and all aspects, which have been happening since 2012, and indeed to give the best solutions, and you will see why, because, in all these talks that we had with candidates, who even worked with Miskovic in 2010, it is necessary to say that such candidates were asked questions by the members of the Committee, which is precisely by the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, including New Serbia, gave answers that they had dealt with this topic before, and that in their advisory work they saw the shortcomings in the law itself and those shortcomings, in an extremely professional way, used. They did not make phone calls, but then they simply saw that calling the phone was not going to do anything, so such candidates, even in public, felt that it was one of their greatest successes to defeat the Commission in an extremely practical and legal way. Since 2010, when the candidate was Mr. Marko Obradovic, he has worked with Mr. Miskovic, quoted in his biography as going to Cambridge. Since 2010, it has been exclusively involved in the analysis of market activities, so since then, this purely professional work on competition has been on the move. From 2010 to 2012, many things have changed in the area of competition, in terms of tightening the monopolies towards the country itself. From that moment on, it was interesting for us MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party that such a high-quality young man, who thinks it is one of his greatest successes, who managed in one legal way to defeat the Commission for the Protection of Competition, an institution that didn't function in 2012, we considered it to be the need to choose it, because it will contribute to this future competition policy to gain full importance and to liven up everything that we consider European values and European standards. This list of candidates, proposed by the SNS, or voted for them and proposed by the Committee, is one of the best solutions, because it represents one combination of experience and youth, I would say to youth, and what was the answer to which it was no more, that is because many candidates did not report for the presidency. This proposal for the President of the Commission was one of the best. Should I answer it again and answer certain questions?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12510	Mrs. Tomic, since there are no more reports, you are the last speaker, so everything you thought, please say now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12511	When we talk about wages, the Commission does not determine the level of salary, as far as independent institutions are concerned. If we are talking about reducing the Commission's salary to protect competition, of 350,000, then we need to talk about a reduction in salaries to the Citizens' Protector, the Securities Commission, meaning all independent institutions that are in the jurisdiction of other committees. So, the Justice Committee and the Finance Committee. It's not in our jurisdiction. It is a response to my colleague Jovanovic, and I completely agree that they have inappropriately large salaries. To be honest, the MPs, as far as wages are concerned, have taken over, or shared the fate of the people in terms of wages. These independent institutions have five to six times more salaries than they are MPs. If we're going to look at some other companies, public enterprises, they also have double the salary. Therefore, there was no discussion on the Committee on the subject. If we are going to talk about the candidates, and first we have a basic question concerning the conflict of interest in decision-making, cited by Mr Stefanovic. Professor Miloja Obradovic is a ten per cent professor at the Faculty of Engineering Management of Belgrade, owned by Vladimir Tomaševic of Cambridge, who is part of the Edukos University. If you have some knowledge, the moment the election procedures are started and decisions are made, none of us have the knowledge that there is another change in composition within the Alpha University. I really don't know that there's a college of engineering management in Belgrade that's made up of Alpha University. I teach at the Faculty of Trade and Banking. There was a college for Belgrade's management, which was shut down within the Alpha University in 2010. That's the answer to the question you asked me. I don't think Mr. Karic knows that there is a Faculty owner, Vladimir Tomasevic, who is part of the Alpha University. Secondly, the candidates who are better, which is why we proposed them for members of the Council, according to their narrow professional references indeed, were Dr Veljko Milutinović and Mr Marko Obradovic, who we discussed, because these schools and topics, which relate to competitiveness, were taught in the EU, in Rome, in Harvard, but did not report to the Commission president. They remained consistent and modest in that part. They couldn't believe that the president's position, for the first time in years, could take such a place. As for this, we have talked a lot within the Committee, and as one solution we have proposed that Mr Miloje Obradovic take the post as chairman, and secondly, we have three candidates from the area of law and two from the area of economy. We felt that the area of economics for the president's post was to give as one kind of advantage and make one balance, a balance between these two professions. Lawyers and economists always look at one area from different aspects. As for Mr. Jovanovic and my colleague who voted against, as a solution, what Mr. Marko Obradovic gave reporters in response was that it was a great honor for him to work in a company from whose point of view he could see all the shortcomings of the Competition Protection Act, which was in 2010. I think that Mr. Jovanovic voted against because he couldn't change his mind, because he decidently defended his position that there was no chance at all that people who worked and had any kind of relationship, although he had everything advisory, although he had everything as a consulting role in all this, in this strategic assessment, practically, monopoly, in a certain way simply had no connection. And perhaps Mr Jovanovic is used to dealing with certain situations in the monopoly area by telephone. Experts such as Mr. Obradovic and Mr. Milutinovic, who have passed all those schools, which have passed state institutions, simply know how legally and through institutions they will solve it. There's no need to solve any problems or phone cases at all. What I think is interesting to say is that since 2012, there have been really conflicts of interest in making decisions concerning the election of members of the Commission's council. I don't think Mr Stefanovic is aware of what the previous composition of the Commission looked like and that the election for the Commission's composition also lasted more than a year, because there was virtually no majority within the previous board to make that decision, so then the parliamentary majority at the head of the DS had to amend the Rules of Procedure to vote on certain solutions or proposals. What was made as a decision has been practically proven to be really related to the previous government, because the lady who served as president of the commission had gone to sick leave and had been sick since 2012. When anyone wanted to open up to talk and to discuss that unless they were capable or sick, they would pull out of that position, simply, I got the warm recommendations that I did, which is that they shouldn't talk to independent institutions that way, because, you know, they could always accuse us of putting pressure on these independent institutions. And indeed, we should have come such a long way, that we would have come to some of the solutions that we are proposing today. So that competition protection commission simply proved to be the right hand of large monopolies and simply now cannot and should not be the case. Since we are in favour of European integration, surely we will not be able to do so as our predecessors did by 2012, for the simple reason that if you adopt these EU standards, you reduce practically budget subsidies, you are working to make certain decisions concerning the monopoly, you are unable to help any of the monopolies. All of this that you have cited as certain questions, dilemmas and which you think politically in some way you attack me personally and, ultimately, the representatives of my party simply don't stand. If you have any other knowledge of all this and if there are certain facts for it, then I ask that you really present it in an extremely open way. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12512	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic, spoke. Just tell me on what grounds? You have the time you have left, 10 minutes and 40 seconds. (Borislav Stefanovic: I thought I'd take advantage of that. ) Before concluding a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't want to discredit anyone personally, believe me, that was absolutely not my intention. I'm just asking the questions that were delivered to me. In the meantime, I also got written evidence for it. So, I ask the chairman to deliver stenograms and debates between me and Dr Tomic and deliver to the Anti-Corruption Agency, because, unfortunately, in this case, the conditions that Dr Tomic and I have been talking about have been met, however, on the contrary. The college you're talking about, where the future president, employed as a doctor, has been granted permission as part of the Alpha University, and by conviction, accreditation number 6120000690/2013, the accreditation commission gave this assurance 10. 05. 2013 Faculty of Engineering Management, you have on site if you feel better – and you have our teaching chamber right there, in the eighth place there is Professor M. Obradović, as a teaching chamber of the university, then, within the framework of the Alpha University of Mr. Karic. Since you are also at the Alpha University, and since the Alpha University is very close in terms of establishing a founding capital with the Karic family, one of which is a member of your board, you and Mr Karic, in my opinion, had to exempt yourself from voting for the President of the Commission to fight competitiveness, because by voting you put the committee and the decision of the board and you personally to be in conflict of interest. Well, it's just amazing that I have all the documents here, absolutely signed, stamped, so everything I tell you is in writing. Believe me, this isn't about discrediting you personally. I don't even think you might have known that. But it's amazing that this kind of thing happens. So, the man you're going to choose as president of the Competitiveness Protection Commission is a man who is a university professor, who recently received accreditation in 2013, under the auspices of the Alpha University of Bogoljub Karic, of whom a family member voted for him on the board and chairman of the board, who is at the Alpha University. That's what scares me. Believe me, it's not personal. I have respect for you, but I'm asking you to clear that up. You didn't answer me. Believe me, you didn't answer my question. I've got all the papers here. I don't know why I'd be the one to tell a lie about something this serious. The second thing, the question of pay wasn't at all important to me. I know your board isn't in charge. You know, completely, but I had to present and support the exposure of my colleague Jovanovic because we're talking about time saving, and we keep choosing people who have so many salaries that it's really amazing. I had to say it. The commission, you say, was the right hand of a monopoly. Great, she was the right hand of a monopoliest, and I won't even oppose my opinion of yours. I can agree, believe me. What do you do now that you know that? So it was the Commission for the Protection of Competitiveness of the right hand of the monopoly and you take Mr. Mark Obradovic, who was the right hand of the monopoly, to be in the Competitiveness Protection Commission? The man who was the right hand of a monopoly, you put it on and you say - because he knows how to establish a monopoly, finished the quote. Since he knows how to do it, it doesn't matter what he did for Miskovic for four years, Miskovic, who was a black devil, out of your mouth, was during the campaign, now you put his right hand in the Commission and then you say – we do it because, although I don't dispute his education, absolutely, he is a man, a quote -- who knows how to establish a monopoly, he knows how to fight him. It's like that insider at the police station. Put on a man who knows one of them so he can explain how criminal acts are conducted. So, goat and cabbage back in action, it seems to me by the majority, which I don't think has thought this situation well enough. I'm really trying to be gentle. I don't want any fight, believe me. But please consider how consistent this is with what we all want, which is some order, law and procedure. There is a suspicion about the conflict of interest that I believe the esteemed Dr Tomic did not know. I'm sure of it. I'm not being mean. 28/1AL/IP 17.00-17.10 We have this second element, that's Miskovic's man, the right hand, who goes to the Commission. Your argument was content, professional, but it seems politically to me that, apart from course, we will not work like you until 2012, I have not heard why it is necessary to put Miskovic's man in the Competitiveness Protection Commission. Two, did you know that the university from which the president of the Commission came was part of the Alpha University, was accredited as part of the Alpha University, owned by the Karic brothers, whose one of the members on your board voted for that man and you who were at that university or are still voting for him? Is that, I ask, the most normal without any desire to argue, or is it not a conflict of interest? As an opposition MP, I have the right to doubt, to speculate, and please, dear colleagues, to give me a concrete answer if possible and if it is possible not to accuse one another, but to answer legitimate questions that were born out of the procedure, I'm sure, without evil intent. I'm sure there was no evil intention. Here's how much better we see when we're all looking at certain procedures to avoid problems. I think it's useful for the legislative process, in this case, to choose people for important functions in one body that we've been very lagging behind for years. Nothing's working on this commission and we're all looking forward to, believe me, Dr. Tomic, starting to work. Please accept my appeal to bring these people in for public listening. I'm asking you as chairman of the committee. You can do it, talk to them, see how they look at the process of further work, what their plans are. There's no policy here. The policy is that the Commission estimates that we are very lagging behind in this field, but citizens notice two problems, these are two inconsistencies, let's say, stones in your shoe, which, please, answer me, how are you going to solve that? I'm really full of good intentions today. I don't know what's wrong with me, but I really want to contribute to doing it quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12514	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Mrs. Tomic, can you first Dragan Jovanovic, since I assume he will have something to answer to? National MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12515	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, only with a few sentences that my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, led in a professional and correct way by the Committee on Economy and led a public hearing or questioning of all candidates and absolutely no objections. This knowledge Mr. Stefanovic has now presented I hear them for the first time. I didn't know that, the information for this gentleman who's president. I personally voted for him because I felt there was absolutely no stain in his career. What I particularly want to stress is whether one of us in this hall believes or citizens who watch this transmission that this Mr. Marko Obradovic who worked for Miskovic "beated" the commission at the time and convinced the commission that there will be no monopoly on the retail and wholesale market when Miskovic takes over the "C market". If anyone believes, I'll say I'm wrong, my dear colleagues and colleagues, that it's not the Cabinette Kostunica... You have all the media on all the sites of the gentleman's statement, I mentioned it earlier, God said that his soul was simple, former C Market Director Radulovic and many others. Everybody knows. You know, when Velja Ilic told Miskovic – put a little emphasis on Miskovic, when he was Minister of Capital Investment, that he was crucified on the cross by the media that Miskovic paid for why he said it. Now we have a situation, all I'm saying is I'm speaking publicly and you have it in your parliament at the Committee's session. I was the first person to mention the salary. Guys, I'm aware that we on the Committee on Economy can't change that, but we can, as MPs, point out and we can say -- people, there's no point, they call us every day. I'm not on Parliament's payroll, but every day they call MPs and I'm sick of what the salaries of the MPs are. Some of the ones that got us to the point where we paid out of the pockets of the ugly millions... See that the plasma cookie is more expensive in Belgrade in "Delez" present than in the middle of Banja Luka in the same Miskovic store, in a former department store in the middle of Banja Luka or go to Montenegro. There's more plasma cookie here than there. They ran out that kind of money. I have to be a man and an MP to point that out. This is one important thing, and that's why we here in this House have to say -- there's a lot more to it, and for the next budget, they can't go paying that much anymore. Let's turn it down. Did you watch today's paper, I need to do a little digression, that President Ratela, Karadzic, bought a 30,000-euro jeep in the middle of the savings, and he's driving with that jeep. That gentleman needs to be fired and removed immediately. That's the point. Please, I don't want to talk to anyone. The situation here is very clear. These commissions must be brought to realize that even independent regulatory bodies in general understand and understand what country we live in and how we live together and simply reduce it and that we, as a parliament, propose to the government a new law that we will adopt, and pay, because there is a special law there that accounts for them, that this law is normal and that they have a maximum salary of 150,000 dinars next year. And that's a lot, but if we want to be independent, that they're affecting the lower prices tomorrow, the higher competition and everything else, let's at least do it. That's why I'm asking you, I think the debate should end, but the bottom line is we're choosing quality people. It was the parole of all of us, and because of that gentleman coming to this place, I only saw him once on the Committee, and after these questions, "Politicals" wrote in two sets about the whole story, I think it's time to take some initiatives as parliament and not repeat these things again. Tomorrow there will be a report and another "independent regulatory bodies", both Ratel and RRA will come tomorrow. I just said one example before, but let's not let this happen anymore. That's why my big appeal is. I spoke all of this publicly at the Committee on Economic Affairs sessions. Let's not let people do this anymore. It doesn't make any sense anymore, and that's why I'm asking you all to back this up together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12516	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12517	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, if we are to look formally and legally, and you are Mr Stefanovic's lawyer, the accreditation of the Alpha University does not exist. It hasn't been won yet, if we go to formalism. As for the decision at all that "Alpha" University is the founder of the Karic brothers, a legal follower, I don't know how much you're familiar with, but the legal follower of BK University "Alpha" is practically the owner of Greece. The fact that the president of the section relating to the University Council is related to the Karic family in one part, i.e. Ms. Milanko, is another part. If we're talking about accreditation, there's a big problem with university accreditation and they're practically formal-law under the accreditation procedure. I really had no idea this university was part of a university that had no accreditation. I'm not a lawyer, but when you don't have credentials, you can't be a fact-finding part of something that doesn't have a work permit. That's part of it. The second part, I don't think Mr. Karic had any knowledge that Belgrade's Faculty of Management was practically in a relationship that you say is part of an Alpha university that has no license, which is not accredited. That's part of the answer. As far as salary is concerned, I suggest that you, as DS, propose a salary reduction to independent institutions. Offer 20%, 30%. Speaking of such salaries, we really have no dilemma at all that there is a certain rationalization to be carried out, but you were the first to advocate that independent institutions be professional people that no one can buy and therefore have such high wages. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector also has 400,000 and 390,000 charters of value and 350,000 Commissions for the Protection of Competition. I really didn't get into their paychecks, but believe me, when we got into a situation to talk to the candidates, then we saw that many, normally, went to a competition that was 27.11. Indeed, on November 27th of last year, we couldn't even discuss whether someone was going to Alpha or Edukons, whether it was owned or co-owner, and we couldn't assume that this number of people would report to the competition. It happened that the people who responded to the contest couldn't be presidents. I told you, they only called as members. That's part of it. As for Mr. Mark Obradovic, I'll read you his position. By 2010, Delta Holding had been a consultant and manager on a project related to strategic plans and development of acquisitions, coordination and activities on competition issues, status holders and international institutions. So that position simply gives you the opportunity to do some advisory work on the subject when you write, report and answer to the Commission for the protection of competition. From that moment on, since 2010, he has moved to Harvard University "Kenedi School for Public Administration", an assistant on the subject - competition strategy and market regulation in the affairs of teaching organisation, teaching and grading students. In 2011, it is working on practically macroeconomic analysis, indicators with a specific view to competition policy, proposals for new public policies at the Centre for Public Policy, at the workplace of an analyst expert. He then moves to the Centre for European Politics, at the workplace of an expert analyst on competition relations analysis, cross-sectoral analysis of public policy effects, analysis of the work of state institutions, the effects and efficiency of "beng marketing" based on e-experience and part relating to market assessment "Hoverd HTL d.o.o. Belgrade". Also the part relating to the assessment of market positions and tourism products and business plans and macroeconomic indicators, which is one of the most important, and also the biggest problems in proving the monopoly itself on the market. That's why, because of these characteristics of a man who's been through all this in his professional movement, we think that this is simply the kind of man worth being an integral part of this Council. Not as president, but as a member of the Council. In addition, this additional education, which we have stated is "Harvard" and University of Belgrade, is also part of the state exam of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and part relating to education by various types of co-operation with international organisations. I want to tell you that we think in some way that his versatility is actually this map that he's going in as a member of the Council. The Council's decisions are not individual, but are simply taken by consensus, or by the vote of the entire Council. So, based on the agenda that the president is working on. I am truly in the position that this Parliament should oversee the work of such an important Commission and not only will it be a public hearing, but ultimately this Council and this Commission will be invited very often to the committee meetings, which are fully open in the most transparent way – it is a line. Serbian citizens will also be able to see what the Committee's work in communication with the Competition Protection Commission actually looks like. So, their work will now be under fire, but before that, an analysis of what has been done in the agency so far, as it has been issued and paid for 10,000 euros a month for the agency's space in a private building. These are some things that we all just ask ourselves -- what were those independent bodies and those agencies for? Is this concept actually the agency's work that it's supposed to look like? If they are state institutions, then they should sit in some state spaces, some state buildings that are within the jurisdiction of Serbia's budget, not simply to pump money out of the budget, but simply to keep everything there. When we talk about the candidates behind which the committee has also stopped, we have been in a great dilemma about Mark Obradovic, but in the end we realized that, essentially, based on all these characteristics and this professional movement, he is in fact the most measure to give us answers to many questions that the Commission and we, as a committee and as a Assembly, will not be able to answer either to the citizens of Serbia or to ourselves. This is how we will, after all, ask him at all these meetings for many market analyses in which it is very difficult to come... Let me tell you, many meetings and conferences were dedicated to this topic. The main problem is that we don't have relevant information about who's doing the monopoly, how and how to prove as a state that monopoly. In order for you to do that, you have to do a full analysis on one economic side. We thought that this kind of man would help us in that part of it that we could really do this analysis in an appropriate way and that we could, as a committee, be able to have full and good information at any moment. I'm telling you, was there any conflict of interest in the previous Commission election, did the President of the Commission have anything to do with "Ces Macon", did the Prime Minister at the time have anything to do with "Ces Macon" and was there any conflict of interest, and we can talk about it and we can ask questions, just as we are asking whether the professor who is at 10% teaching at a particular university which is the founder, the man who also came from Cambridge, who has some experience in this topic, with 10% of whether it has anything to do with the university where I am employed and who has no accreditation? So "Alpha University" has no accreditation. He's the only university that hasn't received credentials yet. These are relevant facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-28-0.u12518	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. The sequel is tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., in particular. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colakovic, Borislav Kovacevic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Dejan Chapo and Olena Papuga. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda of the Law amending the Law on Judges. You have received an amendment submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Representatives of the promoters and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
