ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would ask only the MPs, and the minister and candidate for minister to draw out the cards, to determine the quorum. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Borisav Kovacevic, Gordana Comić, Natasa Vukkovic, Ivan Bauer and Miroslav Markicevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to choose the Minister of Industry as soon as possible. As you could see, for the sixth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 I established the following D n e n e d: 1. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Selection and swearing of members of the Government. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome Vladimir Ilic, the head of the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, as well as Svetozar Stojanovic, Marko Obradovic and Dragic Petrovic of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who are currently monitoring part of the current session from the large hall gallery. You have received a proposal from a candidate for a member of the Government who is in agreement with Article 133 paragraph 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The government law, I welcome the DS MPs, was submitted by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who was proposed as Minister of Business Zeljko Sertic. In this way, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions were met: - to open a search for a candidate for a member of the Government, - to elect a member of the Government and - to take an oath before the National Assembly. I remind you it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure have a total debate time of five hours, as if this time is also being allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. I give the word to the MP Mark Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8158	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe he's a injured member of 269. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says – when the candidate for Prime Minister presents his programme and proposes the composition of the Government at a session of the National Assembly, on the candidate for Prime Minister, on the programme presented and candidates for members of the Government, a search opens. Today, we have been informed by the Prime Minister that, in accordance with the Government Act, Article 13a, the first Vice President, Mr Ivica Dacic, is hereby authorised to replace the Prime Minister. We think it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not legal, because Article 13a. The Government Act says that the Prime Minister determines one of the Deputy Prime Ministers for the First Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during his absence or prevention with all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose an election or discharge of a member of the Government. This Rules of Procedure only recognises the candidate for Prime Minister, as authorised to propose in the Assembly and participate in the debate when it comes to selecting government members. We can't hold today's session if the Prime Minister isn't here. Now I've read you article 269. Rules of Procedure, Rule 13a. The Government Act, and I believe that it is necessary, in accordance with your powers, to terminate today's session until the Prime Minister is here with us to explain his proposal for the Minister of Economy and Economy which we have been waiting for a month, how formal it is when the previous minister, third and today we will probably get the fourth one, resigned. I believe that if you don't, there are no legal conditions and I ask you to follow our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8159	Thank you. We also had the same situation when the finance minister was elected, and parliament concluded that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. Please don't answer because I answer, so I won't give you my word. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You gave the answer, but I disagree. So my answer doesn't matter. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Well, I heard.) You heard. So can you put down that Rules of Procedure and wait for me to finish the sentence, because it's elemental decency? That should be on the table for someone to finish the sentence. All right, then I don't want to finish the sentence. I am not allowed by an MP because he believes that he is right, so that no answer is needed, and parliament may feel that you do not want to vote on it, you have not heard my argument. Here you go again. Otherwise, let me tell you, there are no 30 days between August 19th and September 3rd. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8160	I believe you've violated Article 27, which says the president is looking after the application of this Rules of Procedure. You have said a sentence that Parliament has determined the previous time that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8161	No, I didn't say it, you didn't give me a chance to answer, to finish the sentence, it's just your guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8162	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8163	No, I'll interrupt you the same way you interrupted the president. I heard what you had to say, imagine if I did now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8164	I only raised the Rules of Procedure to report to the Rules of Procedure when you said a sentence that parliament had determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8165	I'm asking the departments to give me a stenogram, so we'll read the whole line to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8166	Go ahead, let them give you a stenogram, and you will read what you have spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8167	I'm asking for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8168	Parliament cannot determine that it is doing something contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to the law. When the Minister of Finance was elected a month ago, I agree that I was not, and I was not focused enough and I did not pay attention to the fact that Mr Dacic's presence in the election was against the Rules of Procedure and against the law. You know how, they say in life if someone cheats on you once, it's because of whoever cheated on you. If he cheats on you twice, it's your fault that you didn't learn anything from the first time. We've learned, we've looked at the Rules of Procedure, I've read to you Article 269, and I can read to you a member of 119 that talks about when a special session is scheduled. I read you article 13a. The government law, which explicitly states that the president cannot pass the authority to propose an election to resolve a member of the government to the first vice president. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, to enable legal work, otherwise we will not participate in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8169	It's your political decision, so there's really no touch points from during the session. As you politically decide, so will it. I have nothing new to say to you regarding what I've been trying to say, but since you don't want to hear the answer this time, you're talking to the MP next to you, you just say do you want us to comply with the MP's decree and vote on what you said twice in a row today? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Yes, thank you. Do MPs allow us to move on? No one's answering any further about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to look where I left off after I was distracted by my previous speaker. Yeah, I stopped at a five-hour time. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening an investigation into the motion for a candidate for a member of the government. Does the government's representative want the word? Quiet, please. MPs who are not interested in work today, please quietly leave the room, so that the other MPs have equal rights and that they can work. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening an investigation into the motion for a candidate for a member of the government. Does the proposal's representative, Mr. Ivica Dacic, want the first vice-president of the government? The word is made by Ivica Dačić, the first Deputy Prime Minister and a representative of the Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8170	Thank you, Madam President. At first, I would like to say that, as last time, I am not here to propose a member of the government, but to explain the proposal, or to replace the Prime Minister, in accordance with the law, in explaining candidates during the vote and the debate on his election. What was discussed earlier, we discussed it at last session, when I explained the proposal for Minister of Finance, Mr Vujovic. Given that I was also the Prime Minister and that I am familiar with this provision, I believe there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Each MP has the right to think about it and decide in his own way. As you have been informed, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, has proposed a new Minister of Economy and Economy, Mr Zeljko Sertic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, elected member of the Board of Directors of Eurocomor. I don't want us to be too busy right now and repeat what it says in his biography, which you will inform yourself about or have already been informed about, but what I can say is that all these years we have worked together with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the largest association of Serbian economy and that the Chamber of Commerce has been declared the leader of economic progress and the most dynamic Chamber of Commerce in the region, and that I am Mr Sertic is the winner of the recognition of the Southeast and Central Europe's Best Manager for 2013 and 2014 and the most Euro-European in 2013 in the area of economy. Under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for which, modestly, as a former MP, I advocate that certain amendments be introduced, so that the candidate himself may participate in the debate, because he sits here all this time listening to various statements about him, which are positive, which we are mostly more negative than positive because they have no reason to appear, and he has no right to answer all this, so last time I had to answer some questions on behalf of Mr. Vujovic, but perhaps for a future amendment to the Rules of Procedure, one such possibility should be considered, that the candidate for a member of the Government may take part in the debate. By passing reform laws, Serbia's government has begun laying the groundwork for comprehensive economic reforms and economic development, as well as good conditions for competition, competition and the market. Reforms bring about changes that will not be easy at all, it will certainly bring many problems, but without these changes, Serbia will not be able to survive and progress. The adoption of the Privatisation Law and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act have made a major reform shift. The Privatisation Act aims to speed up the privatisation process, provide conditions for economic development and the preservation of social security, and the objective of amending and supplementing the Banks Act is to achieve conditions for improving the business environment, more effectively implementing the bankruptcy process and preventing abuse and corruption in this process. One of the government's goals is to create a good investment climate. Special attention must be paid to attracting investments in export-oriented projects, as the growth of the economy is highly dependent on successful export orientation. A larger increase in investment in the coming period could contribute to a more dynamic and stable economic growth in Serbia's economy, employment growth and a reduction in unemployment, a gradual halting and overcoming unfavourable trends in public finances and debt. At this point, there may be a particular need to mention favourable trends in the external trade, the growth of exports of goods and services and the reduction of deficits. The latest data suggest a seven-month growth in goods exports of 12.3% compared to the same period last year, while the deficit was reduced by 5.9%, with a relatively high coverage of exports of 72.9%. The growth in service exports by 12.9% in the first half of this year compared to the same period last year, as well as the growth of service surpluses by 41%. Exporting services exceeds $2.2 billion in the first half of this year. A favourable environment allows new foreign investors to arrive, so this year it is planned to set up stone foundations and open new companies such as "Johnson Electric" in Nis, "Calcedonia" in Subotica, "Michelin" in Pirote, "Leoni" in Dolyavac, PKC in Smederevo, and in the next "Swarovski" in Subotica, "North Karton" in Jagodina and "Geoks" in Vranja. The most successful examples of the partnership include co-operation with the company Al Rawafed from the UAE. The agreement with the Emirat Joint Investment Company provides for the establishment of a joint venture to invest in Serbia's agriculture. A total investment of 140.5m euros is provided by the UAE, while Serbia does not have that kind of investment obligation. The first investment of the newly established company will represent the purchase of a share of the property of the two agricultural companies in restructuring, AD "Bačka" from Sivac and "Adriatic" AD from Novi Gajdobra, amounting to 22m euros, thus enabling the repayment of the debt of these companies. Although governments have been facing losses from JAT since 2003, the averages have been 35m euros a year. Only this government was able to privatize the company. During the privatisation of Jat Erveyza, performed by Etihad, Serbia has pledged to invest $42m, while a UAE partner will invest up to 100m. Etihad company UAE is among the three best in the world, along with Turkish Airlines and Lufthansa. The 2014 Er Serbia is expected to end up with a million-euro profit. In addition to expected profits, the fleet has been replaced, the average age of the aircraft has been reduced, the number of destinations increased, the improved quality of catering and the personnel structure. The government is determined to find a strategic partner for "Zelezar Smederevo" because the adequate resolution of the iron status in Smederjevo is a very important moment in the functioning of Serbia's economy with many aspects. The importance of the only quality steel manufacturer in Serbia is extremely great for supplying all domestic companies that are customers of iron products and its suppliers. Under the financial measures, the government launched a programme of dinar loans for liquidity with a subsidized interest rate. More than 20 banks have been included in the programme, which approve these loans to businessmen with a 24-month maturity of nine months, with a maximum interest rate of 5.95%. Based on a budget subsidy of 6.9 billion dinars, the private sector will be allocated a total of 1.2 billion euros in subsidised loans, which will significantly improve the liquidity and functioning of companies. After three months of implementation of the bank's programme, they approved and paid about 14,600 credits of around 640m euros, and another 170m euros in loans are in the approval procedure. I would also add information that was delivered the other day, that 769,340 persons were registered in July 2014 on the National Employment Service's record. Compared to the previous month, the number of unemployed was reduced by 4,029 persons or by 0.52%. This is already the fifth month in a row that the number of unemployed on the National Employment Service's record means, not on the basis of some labour force polls, but on the National Employment Service's record, which is authorized to deal with this, that the number of unemployed is gradually reduced, and compared to February this year, when the number of unemployed reached a multiannual maximum of 793.625, this reduction is 24.285 people, which is 3,06% less persons on the National Employment Service records than in February. In addition to what I have said and these positive indicators, Serbia's economy is waiting to solve key problems that will be a challenge for the new minister. The new economy minister will be in charge of a good economic recovery plan, while businessmen expect him to continue to understand them. The first job of the minister will be the completion of privatisation, including the restructuring company. Privatisation is a very demanding and complex job, given the inherited problems, as well as the fact that tens of thousands of workers expect their firm to find a buyer. Among the 502 companies already under way are also the most problematic 157 restructured companies. Just thanks to the budget cuts, 800 million dollars will be saved. One of the objectives of the government's economic reforms is equalising the rights and obligations of the private and public sectors. The future is in private business, private initiative, and it is important for the business sector to be run by a private sector man and, who best, from his own experience, understands the problems facing businesses. The goal of the new minister as a man who comes from the economy and who has shown good results by managing Serbia's Chamber of Commerce over the past year and a few days is no doubt aimed at finding a strategic partner or new owner, reducing unemployment, increasing investment, preparing a basis for the recovery of industry and the overall development of the Serbian economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to support Mr Sertic's election as new Minister of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8171	I thank the first Deputy Prime Minister. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8172	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament Speakers, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, in the time of the difficult weather situation that most of today's world is in, at a time when the world is once again in the east and west, Serbia faces major challenges because of its historic and geostrategic situation. The legacy of the first decade of the 21st century, even more specifically, and the last 20, has left many knots that can be hard to untangle, and sometimes they need to be cut. Our economy has been destroyed by wars, international sanctions and the country's non-domestic relationship to its own good, and from the plight of the 1990s, October 5th, of those who best managed during the accident period, he made Serbian tycoons. Five-October dreams of a better Serbia have become nightmares in just a few years after 2000. The Serbian Renewal Movement, after all the injuries in the fight for a better, nicer, economically recovered Serbia, following a systematic killing by the DB, lost that force it had in the 1990s. We can't and we don't want to change Serbia ourselves, but we could and can recognize what the interest of the state is. That is why we participated in the last parliamentary elections on the list of SNS – the future we believe in – Aleksandar Vukic. Serbia today has a prime minister who is an authority. Let's remember some previous governments when the ministers laid the bill to their parties or party leaders. The government was divided into feuds. It is now the prime minister who heads his team and chooses his associates. The signing and application of the Brussels Agreement is no doubt a proof of the possibility for Serbia to change with a brave and responsible policy. Protecting your interests, avoiding international isolation and accepting reality is essential. Allied relations with the greatest force today's Europe -- Germany -- have been established. Let's remember, it was only three years ago, the policy of barricades. Now the United States believes Serbia is ready to change and reject the legacy of the wrong policy. It's the only way to recover, because only the strong allies on the principles of honest relations are going to want to help us rebuild. The Ministry of Business must be a service, and the minister at the service of everyone who wants to create, build and invest. I believe we have the strength, knowledge and wisdom to tackle challenges that will determine Serbia's future destiny. For generations, including mine, they stood up, and the most beautiful years passed in their hopelessness and suspense. I believe that we will soon see this period as a nightmare, and that we have a time ahead where Serbia will be reborn both spiritually and economically. This occasion is not too high to point out again that the government's priority is progress in the process of European integration and EU accession. In that sense, but primarily for the sake of our citizens' better lives, transforming Serbia's economy into a functioning and competitive market economy is a necessity. Of course, the government and the proposed candidate for the economy will face many challenges in implementing reforms and taking measures to raise the quality of the business environment. Important tasks are the restructuring of large systems and the completion of the privatisation process, which will achieve structural adjustment of the economy. At the same time, restructured companies will also be able to engage in a free competition, to operate in accordance with open market laws. That circumstance itself will be an incentive for investment. Also, I must stress that we expect the minister to do everything in his power to ensure that Serbia develops evenly regionally. The Serbian Renewal Movement will vote for Sertic's election as minister and we wish him much success in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8173	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8174	The President-in-Office, Mr. First Prime Minister, future Prime Minister, of course, will support Mr. Sertic's election as Minister of Industry in the day of voting, which is today, above all, by believing in the election of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. What awaits the new Minister of Economy is neither easy nor good. GDP decline in 2014 will be between 0.5% and 1%. How to speed up the economic environment? Just now, the first vice president of the government said something about it. I'd like to discuss it a little bit more. First of all, we are expected to be restructured by 15 September. Such companies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have 157, 56,000 people working in these companies. What concerns me, September 15th, is a relatively short deadline, and what I would ask you, future ministers, is that immediately after you enter into office, with the Privatisation Agency, you see, we have supported from our whole heart the amendments to the Privatisation Act, that not only auction or tender sales are applied to companies in restructuring. However, at consultations at the Privatisation Agency on Monday, where I was present, the Agency's officials literally told us that first of all for the sale of those firms in restructuring for which there is an interest will be a crucial assessment and who will make more money, or 50% of the company's estimated value will be the starting price and who will be able to buy individual firms in restructuring. Why is this so problematic? Since I was at the Privatisation Agency on Monday, I represented a company called Livnica a.d. Topola, which has 250 employees and which has the opportunity to get a strategic partner, but I was also a witness, for example. Two years ago, when similar to that found in Leskovec was sold. The Romanians won the auction and they're there in Leskovac, there's a fellow MP here who knows it well, cut it literally into secondary raw materials within six months. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Future Minister, to make sure that this kind of thing doesn't happen to us and these firms in restructuring, and they're especially about the foundries of interest that can function normally. What I am also asking you, as a member of the Committee on Business, was then Mr Vujovic, Minister of Industry, when we received the answers we were all startled, and that is what the salaries of the company's managers were in restructuring, primarily the directors and members of the supervisory boards. Companies that cost the Republic of Serbia's budget annually and all citizens of this country 700m euros, pay the salaries of individual directors over 300,000 dinars net. They're terrible numbers, Mr. Sertice, to which someone must react. That's why I'm asking you to personally get involved in this story. What is very important, apart from solving firms in restructuring, are public enterprises. Public enterprises accumulated losses in 2013 of over 600m euros. Of the 710 public enterprises in the state of Serbia, 513 are operating at a loss. This is a huge problem that you urgently have to solve, primarily by professionalising management and a little check on the directors, because we have a situation where, since 2008, certain public enterprises have had the same directors, who have three times increased the number of employees and have created losers from successful public enterprises, and today, they magically remain in such places. That's why I would sincerely ask you to take a special account here. The third thing I want to talk about is the gray economy. What is clear to all of us is that the grey economy at the annual level in the state of Serbia takes away one average salary from every full-time citizen of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. around three billion euros is lost in the gray economy. The New Serbia Parliament Club, myself, received a letter from a lady in Belgrade, from a direct environment of the Republic's parliament, who owns a hairdresser's salon, asking us to first and foremost influence you to bring the policies of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance into line. What does that mean exactly? If someone has a craft shop today, here's a regular hairdresser's salon, where there are four constantly employed workers and after the adoption of the incentive measures, which the Serbian government has filed here in parliament, received two more workers, he received a increase in the flats by 120% in 2014, and contributed to it by about 100%. How is that man going to survive now? He naturally has to run to the so-called so-called. A gray zone or a gray economy, because it can't survive. When you look at the smaller environments in Serbia, they all had department stores. Where are these workers working in these department stores today? They're all, more or less, in the gray zone. I don't want to quote it, but the former economy minister, who sat in your seat, has often talked about mollers that, if they have a small craft shop, have the responsibility of the craftsman to the state at a monthly level of 200 euros. That's what's burdening the system and that system can't take it. What I would ask you to do is, if the Ministry of Industry brings in incentive measures, agree with the Ministry of Finance, because what our people would say is, as if one minister is taking the road, and another minister is taking the forest, and then it happens to us to give incentives on the one hand, and on the other hand, the same craftsmen and small companies, which are receiving incentives, receive substantial increases in taxes, i.e. to pay so-called. paushala. What I want to mention, and I think it's extremely important to you, is small and medium-sized enterprises. You're coming, at least according to your biography we saw, from a sector where you ran two small businesses. Why are small businesses important? Everyone said earlier, the ministers who were before you, that small and medium-sized enterprises are a developmental opportunity for Serbia. If that is true, and I agree with that being true, please help small and medium-sized enterprises to enter and compete in the public procurement system. If we look at all together, sitting here in parliament, a portal of public procurement, you will see that small and medium-sized enterprises have been disabled by different conditions of transport in the last two years, as well as different other conditions to compete at all in tenders involving local self-government, state and individual ministries. That is why, Mr. Sertic, it is extremely important for you to find space and help these small and medium-sized enterprises to survive. I also wanted to draw your attention. I was just talking about companies in restructuring. Of these 157 companies, one significant part, unfortunately, will not get a strategic partner and will go bankrupt. The bankruptcy is a particular problem in the state of Serbia, and especially the big problem are bankruptcy managers. We have one example of individual bankruptcy managers leading 20 bankruptcys and some even more. Do you believe, the Municipality of Topola from which I come, we have been more or less successful in solving bankruptcy, and when the bankruptcy manager sells a company out of bankruptcy, first he leaves behind chaos about solving property-legal relations, and then almost all the money that is obtained by selling bankruptcy takes the form of rewards for so-called. the successful completion of the bankruptcy or in the light of the fictitious costs he makes and which judges recognise in commercial courts, which are the costs of alleged security of these companies, the costs of bankruptcy proceedings, his offices. When you look at it, he takes 2/3 of the money to himself, so there's almost nothing left for the former workers. Mr Sertic, what I would also like to point out to you and what the businessmen of us MPs expect, and also from you future minister, is to cut red tape. One of your predecessors, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, was launched by an action that was more of a marketing character, which is a guillotine regulation. I would remind you that we, a country that spends about three billion euros only on various bureaucratic regulations, that businesses in 2013 only spent 193m euros on bookkeeping. It's a chance for you to simplify these bureaucratic procedures and that the economy can move, breathe with your lungs. It's a chance you can't miss. When I mentioned former Minister Mladjan Dinkic, there was a controversy, after all, which you must take care of are issues of subsidies, especially subsidies given to foreign investors, and I must say that they are sometimes given without any criteria. We all, especially in campaigns that we had before this election, said they were divided both by hand and hat on the political line. In the past, these subsidies amounted to 10,000 euros per job and went to those places and cities where the then economy minister had his presidents of municipalities, i.e. some special interest to place those funds there. I would ask you, Mr Sertić, I agree that a certain form of subsidy must remain domestic, either to foreign investors, to equalise domestic and foreign investors, but to grant subsidies to be clear and transparent and to refer to those investors who have new technologies, and that is the key thing. When I mention new technologies, I have to go back and look back at the company's restructuring story. If we have a wish, and I think that here all present MPs, members of the government, have a desire to launch as many of these firms as possible in restructuring, must look at those investors who can bring new technologies and employ people, not look individually at whether they will receive 10 or 100 000 euros more or less. It's important that this company survives. Please include representatives of local self-government, because these people, who run these local self-government, are the most addressed to the very problems of all these companies that exist in that space. What should be noted, just before I said that the policy of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry should be harmonised, you will have to make an effort to push your colleagues into government. A little while ago I was talking about a GDP decline this year that's going to be between 0.5 and 1%, and we're always going to say, floods are wrong. Of course, the basic disasters that hit Serbia on such a catastrophic scale this year are also to blame. But I have to say, it's the inertness of all of us. Why? Look at the fall in the construction sector. We need to have the Planning and Construction Act here as soon as possible to reduce the licensing process itself. You must launch an initiative to integrate the Law on return of property to cities and municipalities as soon as possible. We have hundreds of thousands of acres of property that is dead at this point, because the Law on the Return of Property to Local Self-Government is a dead letter on paper. There are very short deadlines. You must make sure that simply that land for which local self-government is now waiting for the consent of the Republic Property Directorate, for more than three years, to move certain locations to the level of local self-government, because this is run as state property under the authority of the Republic Property Directorate. Unfortunately, local self-government, and if it finds an investor, it can't easily put the land into operation. That is why your ministry, I believe, and your energy will play an important role in ending this procedure as soon as possible, not to mention the Law on Restitution, which is also extremely important. What I ask you is that you have to push another story because it is, we all say that agriculture is an exceptional and developmental opportunity, an export chance and everything, but every day we who come across Serbia to this Parliament are faced with different disasters affecting our farmers. You must get the strength to present yourself before this Parliament as soon as possible to the Anti-Build Protection Act. Can't wait any longer and look into the sky and see who's buying anti-building missiles? Why does the Emergency Sector fail? Are these missiles all over Serbia or not? And when there are no orders to shoot, those shooters who are supposed to be on duty at those anti-urban stations, how are they paid, who pays? And when the city happens, it causes so much damage that a thousand times the number of anti-urban missiles could be bought. Or if this anti-urban protection system isn't good, give us a bill here, that we know what a better system is, and that we can bring that policy in line, and not keep saying that agriculture is our development chance, and then leave it all behind, and especially those tortured farmers, peasants at mercy and mercy, to pray only to God that the city doesn't fall. Well, here's the end of it. Let me say a couple of positive things. It has been two years since the signing of the EU Association Agreement on 1 September. The first Deputy Prime Minister Dacic has already said the positive effects of the agreement. I would remind everyone, above all, of citizens watching this TV broadcast and fellow MPs here that in 2008, the coverage of imports, i.e. exports, was 44% of the EU's exports from Serbia. Today, here in 2014 on September 1st is already about 77%, which is an indication that this agreement is good. What is needed is, above all, to enable, when we have an open EU market and now we have the possibility, of course, a significant increase in exports to the Russian Federation, to allow all the procedures I have been talking about, here in the last 16 minutes, that people can normally and easier open firms. Of course, the procedure, that I don't talk about everything I've been saying about bankruptcy itself, makes it simpler to close down the company. But what is beyond what is necessary, when I have already talked about the gray economy, and with this I will slowly finish this speech, is Mr. Sertić, try to help small and medium-sized enterprises, that small crafts, that are hundreds of thousands of people who are currently in the gray zone and that would only if one man were to report a significant increase in employment and income, both the republican and local budgets. In the end, Mr. Sertic, I wish you every happiness at the place of the Minister of Economy. You will have in me and in my colleagues MPs of New Serbia sincere associates. You have already been able to see from this presentation that it can simply help at least the advice to try these big problems in which the Serbian economy is currently going as easily as possible, and that in some two years 2016 we say that we have done our homework and that at least two things have been solved, and these are firms in restructuring, and that is what is most important for us to professionalise public enterprises and reduce the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8175	In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to choose the Minister of Industry as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8176	President-in-Office of the Assembly, First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Sertic, I am very pleased that you are a candidate for the Minister of Economy. A unique Serbia will vote for you, given that you have an economic experience I am sure you are different from the previous ministers who have performed the function that you will perform in the next period of time. You and I met a year ago with one of your delegations in Jagodina, and after you left Jagodina, I realized that you deserved some ministerial function, and I don't know if you remember that time and at that meeting I said the same thing. What are the priorities of the Minister of Industry? The priorities of the economy minister in this time period are how to help the factories that work, how to help factories and enterprises in restructuring, given that by the end of the year these factories will have some other status. Some will be privatized, working, living off their work, and some will experience liquidation. Not to make the same mistakes that we made when some were selling factories and businesses in Serbia and that they were buying one person or one company, one entity bought five, ten or fifteen enterprises and factories, and it was previously not taken into account whether its parent company had a credit rating, or whether it paid all what is called an obligation in time. I hope we don't make that mistake in the next period of time. Please stop making bad marketing in Serbia, factories that are in restructuring. I am sure that this is not done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the Government or by the Prime Minister or by the Prime Minister, by some others because of strong competition and now if something is produced in Serbia for 50 years, there is a way to collapse this company or factory, that their production technology is obsolete, that they cannot go on the tender, because they cannot produce without advance what you want to buy, etc. This is very important in the next period of time and for the next month you need to make a statement to those people who work in these factories, which are factories that have a healthy future at the moment and that with the help of the government of the Republic of Serbia, because I see that the government will give dinar loans, which is very important given that the course of the euro has started to grow in the last period of time. We have a lot of factories in Serbia, and we need to make a proposal that local self-government can, if they think there is an undertaking or a factory that is privatised, and that because of the poor management of work is bad in recent years, that it has the right to local self-government to go out in the tender and buy this company, to preserve both jobs and everything else. The privatisation that took place from 2000 to 2003 only privatised good, successful factories and good businesses. We privatized, for example. The cement store in Paracino, and they told us that it would be cheaper price of cement, that it would be much easier to buy cement, etc. What did we get? There were 80% of jobless workers left, we had more than 50 private entrepreneurs in Paracino who hired 50-100 workers who worked with cement or processed it. That we do not make such mistakes in the next period of time. We sold tobacco factories, and it is known that we are another country in Europe by the number of smokers, etc. You need to know how to sell the bad cow from the barn, not sell the best cow, and for you to leave the worst cow where there isn't enough milk for your family members, let alone to get the money or sell it. The Department of Industry must co-operate with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education. At this point, farmers don't need production technology. I never agreed to be sent by some experts from Belgrade to come to Jagodina to educate my agricultural producers, and my agricultural producers, like all other agricultural producers in Serbia, know better the quality of the land, how much of this fertilizer should be thrown on a hectare of land, how many liters of oil, etc., to process one hectare of land. When I say this, I don't mean this government that was built months ago, I don't mean that government run by Ivica Dacic. So it is very important to see what it is that has been exported to Russia from EU countries. Here, I ran a business delegation and farmers in Greece, came back the day before yesterday, we were there for four days, there were 210 farmers, businessmen, children's kindergarten employees. We've visited several agricultural goods. Believe it or not, the conditions that the Greeks have to protect and produce meat, that is, to keep cattle, are nothing better than the conditions that our agricultural producers have, but for them it was important to have a market, a guaranteed price, a safe buyer. It's missing in Serbia. At this point, it needs the least money for a program called -- let's tell our farmers what they're going to do next year. Now to conduct a survey, no one knows whether they will be able to sell corn, I don't know, potatoes, tomatoes, peppers and what is produced in Serbia. I found out what cities in Russia, in which these cities were exported by Greeks from the Pel region and the Pyrei region. These are the two regions that deal most with agricultural production and I'm going to inform you in writing, let's see how we can take that market. Agricultural producers at the moment are the hardest to live on from all of the entities involved in some business, and most work and have the hardest jobs. So they're not asking the state for money, they're asking the state not only for statistics. Here, the other day we heard, but it's still not true for this government, so it's not a criticism for this government, how, I don't know, 600,000 pigs were less produced in the last two years than it was produced in earlier years, I don't know how many calves, heroes, etc. We give the information and stop there. We have to deal with the problem of why so many pounds, pieces are less manufactured, whether imports have made competition for Serbian farmers or something else. Why did I say education has to work with you? We in Jagodina have a problem. Five Italian factories are being created, three factories are being opened and we're not going to have anyone to hire in these two other factories that are opening. Why? Because when students graduate from high school, 90% of them go to college and they won't work with colleges to run, etc. My advice is, if someone wants to enroll in college, and wants the job right away, to work with high school, to graduate from college, and to teach themselves and the state to say – next year we will shut down directions, if we have electrical directions or something else, we say – for the next ten years there is no job for these directions. What's up? It's for carpenters, it's for schneiders, it's for welders, it's for locksmiths, it's for electricians, it's for electricians, it's for installers, it's for ten years if someone's gonna have no one to bring electricity into the house, because these old ones are going to retire. Next, what's the problem? We have to give the kids advice, not what they want. It is known that all girls want to be teachers, doctors, or teachers. The three professions in Serbia today have the highest number of jobs and we have nowhere to hire these young people. Like he used to say, let the child write down what he wants and what he loves. It is what he wants and what he likes, but he can't get a job with that profession when he graduates from that school or that college. It's also about your area and new jobs. What is it called investment without the money going to waste? At this point, the state cannot invest in large giants that have failed, and the technology of production is obsolete. Let's see with those who are jobless or out of work, and some are masters or experts who have worked in some businesses and factories, let's see if we give them a family loan, where the family is employed. Family businesses nowhere in Europe have failed because the family business does not sign harmful contracts and because the family business is keeping track of what it is or its product, what it is is that security and in a large way to employ a large number of workers and to enable those who live, especially in the countryside to stay with their children to live in the country. I don't agree with the debaters who say -- we shouldn't give money to foreign investors, give them a subsidy. People, let me tell you, I've visited 20 countries in the last three years, and in the last year and a half of all the countries from which investors have come to our country, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania, and I don't know where else, these countries are now giving more subsidies than the Republic of Serbia, and not a subsidy for new employees, but a subsidy based on an assessment of the value of machines that the entity has, and wants to leave that country. That's what we have to do. We don't have high functions. It is much harder for the Prime Minister, you as Minister, Mr Dacic as foreign minister to go to his colleague and say, "Come now, give me a factory to take that factory to Serbia." Of course, the bigger one, a colleague, you've missed the topic, I don't want the businessmen going from my country to yours, but to keep those businessmen. That's why we don't have high-ranking functions, even MPs and presidents of various committees and these interstate friendships, not to be a Russian-Serbian parliamentary friendship, to eat, drink and play football. I just heard them say they're going to play football, and they have both left legs, and now these MPs are going to play football. Guys, let's use that friendship and this time period. In the economy, those who do business, and Feman, you know it too, Mr. Zeljko, that in the economy when you lose one day and a month you can never return. What else? No action, no area lasts forever. Why did you have companies where you had more activity? Two loses, two goes to zero, two profits, and that's how you've done business for years. I think that now the businessmen don't know what the future and the professions are and they say – we're going to invest this much or that much money and get on our economic feet. Let me tell you, for the last ten years in Serbia, if you wish not to fail, you could have invested that you would return in six months. If you have an investment that you're going to pay back in five years, then you're doomed. Why? Because the laws are changing, the market is losing, the competition is very strong. We signed a lot of international contracts and CEFTA, and I don't know what else we signed, where we create the possibility and right of those who allegedly put us on the waiting list to join the EU. I am one of the fighters and the Single Serbia to join the EU and we arrived in 2008, but even today as in 2008, they keep telling us that we are on the verge and constantly some new conditions. We are fortunate to have Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, so he is a flexible man, very tolerated and he knows how to talk to those international entities who make Serbian hats and citizens of Serbia and decide what we will have for lunch. I'm not so he can tell me what we're gonna have for lunch? I am in favour of the state of Serbia having respect that we are an independent state and that they do not force us to fight with our brother or to wrap our brother with the tap, him or us, as you do Mr. Minister and Mr. Dacic if someone gets angry with him, he doesn't tell the whole society, don't talk to him. It's the simplest way to explain to this international entity if it makes me impose sanctions on Russia, etc. So we're a neutral state, we respect everything, of course, and those who bombed us and those who pressed the button to bomb Serbia, we didn't cause anything, and now history shows how big a victim we were. It is also our happiness that the Prime Minister does not accept any ultimatum and that no one can determine for us more every week and every month we pass some international laws, and that these laws can be passed in EU member states, there are big salaries. No one is saying how much wages are in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, France, but they are saying what service prices are, what is called the info that is much cheaper here in Serbia, and that there is more expensive, of course, these companies must have a regular charge, etc. I also disagree with previous speakers who say the state should not have high wages. Well, it can't be Minister Zeljko who made 30,000 euros a month, by honest work, saying -- now you're going to work for 100,000 dinars. Will this Zeljko have the will to go to work? Will the other ministers? We must give that support to both the prime minister and those public enterprises that are the successful sea director and management to stimulate. Those who have failed, we change the directors, and if that doesn't work, we change the way you produce or service, and if that doesn't work, we put a new activity into that company, and we say the area or the work that you do is no longer profitable. It's very strange how it explains to someone now that the governor of the National Bank as having 500,000 dinars, so that's a lot. It's not much. If I were someone, I'd stimulate every minister. Dacic, Minister of the Interior, if he went to France or did a job somewhere, he must have stimulation. He says, hey, guys, we all do it because we love Serbia. Well, of course he loves Serbia, and he can't spend the rest of the century doing things for nothing, and on the other hand, that someone else can benefit from it, and that you care about every man who lives in Serbia. And here's my proposal and the Prime Minister to make one criterion and stimulate, because if we have the same pay, the same values, then there's no motive for work and there's got to be a graduation to know what's small, what's a little bigger, what's what's called the greatest. I've been in the business for 25 years, I'm no longer the owner of the company, but that's the only way I've done it, and it's the only way that if you're a transport company that won't steal your oil, if the driver's "Last" or if I don't know what that boss doesn't want to share that I don't know he's taking more oil than he spends buses with drivers, everyone's gonna be happy. That's how it's done in other countries. Why don't we have capable personnel in Serbia? Guys, we don't have capable personnel. The capable personnel have escaped or owned the company, but if you own the company then I don't know every day you're on a strike or you're gone or they've gone to some other state. I'm glad the Prime Minister invited several successful businessmen and to see if they are criticizing the government, then come here, and here you are, you're going to be the director of the Railways, so let's see that as someone who criticises you, and you're a successful businessman, to see how you're going to take that company on the road and nobody gets out of a job, to increase traffic, etc. A unique Serbia will support you, Mr. Zeljko for the minister. We support everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done so far and I can tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has a very high international rating, and that is good for those who want to work and create in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8177	Thank you, too. The word is Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8178	Dear members of the government, fellow MPs, parliament is today discussing the election of a new member of the government, i.e. the election of a new economy minister. If we have in mind the general economic situation in the country, the state in which our citizens live, we can say freely that today Parliament chooses one of the most important ministers, one of the most important members of the government, or the minister of which the entire state expects much. I claim that the proposed candidate is a good, serious candidate, but it is a big question whether this government will give this experienced and capable candidate a chance to show what he knows or hold him back. I am saying this based on my bad experience, because in six years of working on sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, for those 46 most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, these two governments averaged 0.047% of the state budget. So, not half past. That's why I insist and speak to you fellow MPs, as well as to the members of the government, that the candidate is good, that he has all the quality, he has the abilities, but it's a question of how much support he will have for his government. Given the compactity of this government that has a stable parliamentary majority, it is expected that this candidate will get a chance to do much for all citizens of this country. If we look at the economic activity of investment, investment in Serbia, again I'm talking about what's happened so far, the key to our problem is the imbalance in development. So far, we've had 46 underdeveloped municipalities that when we look at them as symbolic for the state budget as when on one loan we have 46 small holes through which something is constantly flowing, and no matter how much you pour from above, it's constantly getting lost. Until these openings are closed, or we build a stimulating environment, energy and road infrastructure in these undeveloped municipalities, we create a stimulating environment for foreign investment and for the investment of our rich people, there is no perspective for us to get out of such a difficult situation. When I talk about it, and you will see for yourself, if we look at the most underdeveloped parts of ours, primarily Sandzak, which is the farthest from Belgrade, there is unemployment on average 52%, while in the rest of the country is 26%. Let's take the Black Grass, also one very far away from Belgrade, take the Shop, Presevo Valley, take Meroshina, Kursumlia, the Landish and the Surf, they're a little closer, the new Montenegro, but in general, you see, away from the eyes, away from the heart. I draw your attention as a quality businessman, as a responsible man to address these issues, that is to condition the Government to support your strategy, and as you know, you yourself were involved in the fact that in my mandate you have an extremely well-developed team of professional, experienced, valuable people, who worked together with me and with the Faculty of Organizational Sciences, a seven-year development plan for the Republic of Serbia, particularly undeveloped areas for 2013, which agrees with the EU budget, which is very important. I think that team will be very helpful to you, because they know the situation on the ground personally, the maltenes know directly and directly every source and every house in these undeveloped municipalities. When we talk about creating infrastructure, I am particularly talking about travel and energy infrastructure. That is why I suggest, dear Mr Sertic, that you convince your colleagues in the government not only you but also other ministries, especially the Ministry of Infrastructure and Energy, plan the means to produce project documentation, primarily for energy and travel infrastructure and project documentation for development projects in underdeveloped areas, primarily in Sandzak, where nothing has been invested for decades. Why am I saying this? As a man who has entered all the essence of these undeveloped areas, I can tell you that none of our 46 undeveloped municipalities, and now we're going to have twenty new underdeveloped municipalities that have been very developed, after the May floods have fallen into a difficult economic situation, and they are already in the order of the most undeveloped. If we take that into account, none of these municipalities, 46 plus these 20, be sure, they will not have the opportunity, nor will their committees support the promoter to allocate the enormous resources needed to produce project documentation for development projects. That's why it's very important, I'm saying not because you don't know it, but a man with a personal experience to suggest to your colleagues that all ministries from their point of view, especially the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure, or to create a travel network, plan funds or a project documentation programme. You'll see, it's a huge number. If you, with these underdeveloped municipalities together, form a programme to finance the project documentation for travel and energy infrastructure and another for environmental protection, wastewater treatment, etc., these are huge money that you have to show up in front of the EU, that those in their seven-year budget finance, grant you the funds, grant our municipalities funds to create a project documentation that will give them the condition that, when the European Union calls for a competition to finance these projects, they can compete. If we wait unprepared for Europe to call a competition, and our municipalities do not have project documentation, then the matter has failed and we will be guilty of not withdrawing the funds offered by the EU. You know for a fact that if we don't use European money to build a travel network, which is the basis of future tourism, and we know further about the development of agriculture, businesses, and we know that Serbia is an extraordinary country of Europeans, I can say future and tourist destinations and an economic destination. If we don't use it and we don't do it from the European couples, for example It will clear these waters, rather than continue to pour fecal and other sewers into the riverbeds, we will pay large EU pens and we will fall into a growing and larger financial ambience. I have had the opportunity to work in almost two of my mandates with these undeveloped areas, and I have to remind all the parties, all seven electoral lists, which make up this parliament, seven, let me say, ways of looking at our lives and our development, that up to now, in the new 1990s, according to undeveloped municipalities, and if we take only since 2005, so far, to this day, the last ten years, you will see, future ministers, that it has been a very incorrect relationship of all governments to undeveloped areas. The stimulative resources that have been given from the state budget and the international funds that have been invested in our country, you will see that only 3.15% of these funds have been invested in undeveloped areas. From the funds we provided from the Development Fund and the individual ministries that provided for the sustainable development of undeveloped areas, you will see that in undeveloped municipalities a little less than 9,000 dinars were administered per capita, and in the rest of Serbia, in 19,300 dinars per capita. It's that disproportionate that's been tearing us all down. If you see foreign investments, from all foreign investments from 2005 to today, over 15 billion euros, only 1% of these investments are in these 46 undeveloped municipalities. If you take the incentives given by the state for human employment, you will see that in underdeveloped municipalities the largest subsidy to investors who opened factories in underdeveloped municipalities was 4,700 euros per employee, while in other developed municipalities up to 10,000 per employee. And from this I tried to tell you, and to finish this sad story about the carelessness of all previous governments towards, and those two in which I was with two reconstructions, that these two governments separated for undeveloped municipalities just 0.047% from the state budget. This is what I am telling you to fight for a better position, and in order to succeed in all of this, I propose to you as your personal friends, as a man who wishes you well and as an MP who wishes you well for our entire country, I wish you success in your work and once again, count on those twenty people on your team, these are young, capable, educated and very experienced experts who have personally visited every undeveloped municipality with me, you know them well and personally, because they participated in the development of this sustainable development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which agrees with the EU's projected budget from 2014 to 2020. I suggest you insist that you insist on what I have insisted as a former minister with no portfolio in charge of sustainable development, to insist on establishing a specific fund for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, to establish a Chamber of Commerce primarily in Sandzak and other undeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia, to invest in the office, to promote export promotion agencies and foreign investments precisely in Sandzak and other undeveloped areas, and to especially insist on your colleagues, other ministers, to adopt the budget rebalancing that will now be, and for the next year, to provide for funds with which they will appear with a request from the European Commission, and from our money to include projects of underdeveloped municipalities, development projects, infrastructure, energy and other development projects of undeveloped municipalities for the creation of a stimulating environment and domestic and foreign investment. I don't want to lecture you about what you're supposed to do. We also know each other as friends. You have been very correct in our cooperation and I wish you success in your further work. I think the team I've been working with will be very helpful to you. In voting day, which is today, know that SDA Sandzak will support your appointment as Minister of Industry and wish you success in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8179	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8180	Dear President, thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Sertic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a job that is ahead of the future economy minister, we will all agree, whether from the opposition or from the ruling coalition's parties, is extremely important and I think that we have come into the situation as a country so that we can have a prime minister who is also a minister of business and a minister of finance, as we had a prime minister and a minister of police, because it was also an important function at the same time. Today we are in such an economic situation that these three functions could unite. We're facing a negative growth of -1% this year and a course that we see from day to day, but our economy's problems are structural, and I don't think I should be giving a lecture here today, because we're more or less aware of that. The main problem of our economy is only one, and that's that nobody wants to buy what we produce at any price. In the past 25 years, we've lost technology, we've lost markets, and today we're paying the price. Some say that we are in an economic crisis, but we are in a crisis compared to perhaps 2005, 2006, which was a short expansion caused solely by the expansion of credit activity and the arrival of numerous foreign banks that have credited both physically and legally. Today we pay the price. I'll give you one brief piece of information, Mr. Dacic might like that. They say -- Tito used to take loans, so we developed, but I think we should know that the foreign debt was once $20 billion, and the former Yugoslavia's GDP was 70 billion, which was about 26%-27%. Today, in the former republic, GDP is $240 billion, and the total foreign debt is $140 billion, which is about 60% of GDP. Not only us, but all countries in the region are in an extremely bad financial situation. When we talk about the recovery of the real sector, I have pointed out that it is extremely important to look back at the practically whole real sector as a hostage of the financial sector, given that the uncharging claims in banks today are about 30%. There are solutions that have been applied in other countries, which is that the state has practically pulled all that bad activity out of banks and practically converted all these claims into capital, and later privatised that capital market, which we also don't have, so some models certainly exist. Unfortunately, since she started what's-his-name. The economic crisis in 2008, none of it was done. I really support the efforts to solve individual cases and to complete privatisation, but without some system solutions, i.e. creating an environment in which the economy can function at all. It certainly won't be possible, and here first of all I mean legal certainty and I mean the capital market, which we absolutely don't have today. You have no stock trading, no debt trading, no primary, no secondary, nothing. Also, I would like to have a session of the Assembly here, where, apart from the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the NBS will be present, because without fiscal monetary policy, which is in line with what you are going to do, you will find it difficult to implement any reforms. It wasn't bad until now that it was done in the domain of the economy. I think SIEPA was doing a good job. We can argue about how subsidies are shared, but I come from the local government of Sremska Mitrovica and there are some investors who, if there were no SIEPA people, or that system, would certainly not have come there. Another problem is that investors were sent to local self-government where someone had a political interest, etc., but the system was somewhat functioning. I think that institution was staffed to do the job. Like I said, the local self-government I come from was once the industrial center of Srema. We had a local economy export there over $100 million a year. There was “Mitros” as a large slaughterhouse, “Matroz” was the only factory of cellulose and paper, dairy, sugar, wood combination “Mitrosrem” etc. None of that works today. Most of these legal entities are in bankruptcy. "Mitrosrem" is the only one in a gray zone, as it has been taken away from former owners, however, temporarily. People who run local self-government today, even though they try to solve many of these problems, are not able, because they have no influence on what they do or bankruptcy managers or courts or the Ministry of Economy. Of course, you can't solve each of these individual cases, but it would be good if, as a man with great experience, you formed a team in the ministry that is much faster and better able to deal with such things. As far as our country's reputation is concerned, it is measured in only one way, which is a credit rating, which is currently BB minus in "standard and Turkey", i.e. the outlook is negative. We have all macro indicators that are a negative, pay-balance position, import-export ratio, budget deficit, economic growth, unemployment, etc. When it comes to economics, there's always talk of how privatisation is going to end, or how the state is going to get rid of literally those companies that are lagging behind, but no one ever mentions how we're going to generate economic growth in the sense that we even get to the level of industrial production from 1989, which is now half of what we had, and we're not going to be able to do it without a comprehensive strategy of economic policy development, which includes these other measures that I've cited. I think that investing in the network of courts, in legal certainty, in the catastrus, is far more important, even from sharing subsidies to foreigners, because this very rating of our country is based on whether or not someone who invests here has legal certainty or not, during which time they can get licenses, for which time can be entered, whether bankruptcy is really being conducted or creditors have no rights, but only the court and bankruptcy administrator, etc. On the map of investment Europe, Serbia, unfortunately, remains a black hole. According to the latest data, you have a billion and 300 billion dollars of funds that private equity funds have raised to invest globally. None of this has yet to end in Serbia, because neither here nor here have a structured way of investing, nor do you have projects that are actively offered to foreign investors abroad. We are sitting here waiting for someone to come and invest, and we still have no example in Serbia that someone has come, invested and earned. We want someone to invest, but we want to give him the conditions under which he can do it. As to whether or not there's a contribution to capital, it's not our problem after all. Some things can be done. I think that the orientation towards CEFTI and towards the region is primary, because the stories that we will endanger EU exports to the Russian market are absolutely unrealistic, as mosquitoes cannot be sprayed properly, rather than jeopardising the export of the EU food industry to the Russian market. We can't produce anything, not even in minimal quantities. CEFTA is something that's real. Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Slovenia, this can be our market. The creation of the assumption that the capital market is developing, I think it is of the utmost importance as it is of the utmost importance and what I said, that we finally try to detach the real sector from the financial sector and that, if necessary, the state appears as the sole trustee, emits securities of value and converts that capital, i.e. debts to the capital of enterprises and, if necessary, resells them, only that the current situation is unblocked. Are you going to make it as a minister? I don't know. I wish you good luck anyway. But in order to vote for your choice, I think we need to hear a far more detailed and comprehensive analysis of the current economic situation and the structural and essential direction of development of the entire economic policy, not just solving individual cases. I welcome the arrival of Etyhad and Er Serbia and the construction of Berograda on Water, but the vast majority of our country's citizens will not be able to fly that airline, nor will they buy apartments of 8,000 euros per square metre in downtown Belgrade, and when you move from Belgrade, except when the floods, the people who decide on economic policy here will realize that the situation is far, far worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8181	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8182	Thank you. Dear Vice President, the first Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Future Minister, I would like to tell you at first that you are a very brave man. You've accepted one hot chair, a chair where there's a much greater chance of you failing than making it. Your courage, your experience, says you love challenges and therefore the SDPS will vote for your choice. You got one hot chair. Why? We know what is the legacy in Serbia's economy. Am I to point out that we still don't have a gross social product that we had in 1989, that industrial production isn't even 50%, that's what my colleague said before, and we had one radical robbery privatisation, where we lost 400,000 jobs, we produce little, and what we produce, we mainly produce for our humble consumption needs, because for exporting a little bit of it remains. The transition to Serbia takes 20 years. The longest of all countries in Eastern Europe, which is really not our honor. But it's an inherited condition. We expect you to move on, to end these stories, especially these privatisation stories, about 502 companies, about the company in restructuring. We've discussed this a lot in this House, but it seems to me a little bit has been done. We talk about reforms all the time, and basically, in the previous period, we didn't do anything. This government took the first steps. She passed reform laws, privatisation laws, bankruptcy laws, labour laws, a set of tax laws, which means that you have the starting points on how to move forward into the regeneration of our economy. What's the first thing you have to do? Serbia needs to be industrialised. Because we practically destroyed our industry, and it's not like we don't know how to produce. Here, "Fiat" shows that we can produce. We know how to produce electric motors, we know how to produce a lot of things, but everything that existed, we destroyed it by privatizing it, and we came to the point that we have a pre-named public sector, where 800,000 people are employed, and in the real sector only 600,000 people are employed. When we know that in this public sector we have very large companies that are making losses, where you have a dowry that is very negative, I don't want to talk about big systems like ZTP, like other companies that are and how they cost this country, and just to make some moves, we can do what's important, which is important, which is that Serbia is starting to work. Anyone who employs Serbia will achieve a very large score. This government that has started and is doing exactly that is the main goal, to do that, to have one employee of Serbia, where young people will work. But we have to do something that's painful. Some companies that don't have a perspective, who don't have a chance, we have to liquidate them, no matter how hard it seems to us, people will lose their jobs, but, the deception we've had so far, it costs Serbia a lot. I think we have a chance. Regardless of this difficult condition we have, we still have solutions. I see solutions exactly where you showed the results – in small and medium-sized enterprises, in family companies, right in those companies that we will subsidize so that they can continue to work for large systems. That's where I see the chance. Because, small, family-owned enterprises, and that's what my colleague Markovic said, they have a chance and they have to have a chance. When a family gets behind something, the results have to be. That's what we need to know and what we're going to know to do. We talked about the restructuring company. They're 157, 160. Indeed, some of these companies have a chance. It is not possible that some parts of the "First Five-year-olds" cannot be put into operation, live and work. It is not possible that a "PIC Vienna" cannot survive on the market. It's a big company. We have a lot of these companies that I would mention, and even if we could see, and talk about why the Agroziv workers today strike hunger, to see where the chances are, where the possibilities are, who created this negative dowry with credits, burdens, because of the bad privatisations that were made in these companies? That's exactly where we can find our chances, they're coming back to themselves, their advantages and their opportunities. The fact is, we're expected to do a lot. You have experience in small and medium-sized enterprises, you have experience in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which you have led very well. If the unions praised you for doing a good job and for being sensitive to social dialogue, that means you have qualities. That's exactly what we expect you to say where you are. You are part of one team, the reform government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exactly where I expect you to have your own framework of action. Your framework of action must be the following - legally pass some other laws that will allow the economy to go on its own, to release too many administrations, and to regulate production, or market, which are companies that can survive and which should survive. It's the only way we can get out of this dead end that's inherited and the economy we have. Of course, in the end, let me tell you the following, and I wished the Minister of Finance a success in work and happiness, and I wish you a lot more happiness, because you'll need her because you've got a very difficult portfolio. There's something else I want. I want you to sit in that chair for a long time. Why? Well, because you did a good job, because you're going to hire Serbia, because you're going to be opening new jobs, and whoever does it in Serbia deserves respect and all the recognitions. The Social Democratic Party will vote for your election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8183	The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8184	Mr Arsenovicu, Mr Dacic, Mr Sertic, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia who are now following this work, today the topic is also extremely important for this parliament, for this government, for this country, for the citizens of Serbia. We choose one of the key people. The economy ministry is a key ministry, and perhaps today's chamber atmosphere in this building corresponds to the state of Serbia's economy. The Serbian economy is dead, campers and you have a truly serious task ahead of you. It's simply defined, it needs to start economic activity. It's very easy to say, but it's much harder to do. Of course, I won't repeat that in the previous period we had the opportunity to address a few people who ran this ministry. Why didn't they last longer? The answer to that question they have to give themselves. Apparently, their ideas were not sufficiently well-founded and could not be realized. Whether these were the right ideas, I don't know either, but I do know that we are having another debate at this session today and we are preparing to elect a new minister. You have two key sectors ahead of you. It's a public sector and a real sector. I'll try to give you some mild-minded suggestions. First of all, let's define together, try to open up that third sector that exists in Europe, you know that well, that's the social entrepreneurship sector. Why do I speak for those who know less? The social entrepreneurship sector, here, I'm going to take a little bit of a frequent quote in this building by Margaret Thatcher, the diminutia, and next in Great Britain, it's going to be about 10% of GDP. In Slovenia, the percentage is about seven to eight percent. Let's start it in Serbia so let's make a profit, let's fix that score by two or three percent, and you agree with me we won't think about whether our budget is balanced, will we have for some new donations or not? So, the social entrepreneurship sector is something that corrects the imperfections of the market economy, something that exists in the modern world, and in short, it is a chance for those people who are in the market for hard work, people who remain in the labour market uninterrupted and for whom employers are not interested. These are persons with disabilities, refugees and displaced persons, they are members of marginalized social groups, because what is important in the transition period is men and women who have a certain number of years. They're too young to realize a Serbian dream, which is a pension, and too old to work. For them, we have to find a job, and that's the chance. We're like a parliamentary group, I personally worked on this project in the city of Belgrade, we have some tangible results, it was ready and standing. I deliberately gave up that law going into assembly procedure, because law as a law means nothing if we don't have the resources to support it and to allow it to work. Here's one of my suggestions is to think about and find these magical hundreds of millions of euros that, according to some of our calculations, are enough as initial means to start that third sector. In that organisational sense, it involves different visions, whether crafts, whether or not d.o.o. or something that has already been forgotten in Serbia and we would have to refresh it again, which is the family enterprises that my colleagues were talking about, but first of all, I would like to cite the concept of cooperative. The concept of cooperatives and you know it very well as a businessman, as a man who ran the Chamber of Commerce, that the concept of cooperativery represents something that in Western Europe represents an important segment. Serbia as a country, I would say Svetozar Markovic, of its first capital works "Serbia in the East", can expect much from the very concept of cooperativeism, particularly in the undeveloped areas Mr. Ugljanin spoke of, and beyond in rural areas. Today we no longer have agricultural cooperatives, we don't have residential cooperatives, we don't have different types of these cooperatives that would allow people to start some things with their own initiative. We can't just wait for big investments. They're not going to be by the book, so are you and I. They will be respected by MPs, colleagues, citizens of Serbia, when a large bank such as Deuthsche Bank or City Bank arrives in Serbia. I don't think he'll make it. I'm sure he won't make it. We've got surrogates coming in from the Western Europeans who've been formed for this time of transition. Large investment is being followed by large banks, large investment funds. Today we don't have a developed capital market. What we have is ridiculous and can't be called that, but it's not the domain of your operation. That's why I'd like to appeal that you've been working very closely with the finance minister lately, the governor of the National Bank. You need to harmonize economic development policy with monetary policy, with credit policy, with tax policy, with dinar course policy. If you don't have it harmonised and you don't have a comprehensive concept of how to get out of this, I'm afraid we won't do much about the real sector, there are people in this sector who are successful businessmen, Dragan Markovic is here. There's a few more of them. Some will take over public systems, this is a good idea to take over the railroad. The man who's ready to take over recently I've heard. I'm glad that as a successful businessman, he confirmed what he was already saying, that Serbia has no extra employees, not literally, but there are shortages of work and when they asked him if he would fire people, he said - we need a job. I agree, in Serbia, it is crucial that we start economic activity and find a job. I'm going to put the real sector aside, and I'm going to commit myself because I'm dealing with the public sector on a case-by-case basis. I will talk about the concept and functioning of public enterprises in Serbia. My suggestion for you is that it would be very instructive for the MPs to say, a month or two to go out and say, with one example and the citizens of Serbia, we have these and these large public enterprises, they employ so many and so many people, we have appointed directors in these companies, there is one business year behind them. These people and these public enterprises have won or lost. We're saying exactly how much they've achieved, what that gain is, and what that loss is. Then we say here in front of everyone - your homework is for them that EPS, Telekom, Post office, and that I do not list in order, have the task of having at least so much and so much in the coming year, and that profit goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The profit that public enterprises in Serbia are investing in the Republic of Serbia's budget is sad, pathetic, funny. One EPS Czech, owned by 2/3 of the Czech state, and 1/3 is a foreign partner paying 1.5 billion euros annually. I want to know how much our EPS is paying, I want to know how much our Telecom's paying. I have the right to say this, because the system I run will be paid into the 27m-euro budget net profit. A fellow Ciric is here, he is a representative of the opposition political party, my special adviser can confirm that. We invested 46m euros and kept the concept of internal responsibility to employees in the highest standards laid down by Europe. So if we can do it, we can do it. Why can't he do it? Why can't they do other companies? Second suggestion, all public enterprises are not the same, Mr. Sertic. There are those who operate in the market, we know eight criteria that determine market business, but there are also those that are formed not to achieve profit but to do certain things for the citizens of Serbia. I would ask you to initiate an initiative to change the Law on Public Enterprises where we would precisely define and classify these public enterprises. Right now the only thing that makes them different is that they have a supervisory board of three or five members. It's a funny thing, it doesn't matter. Either two-time or one-time management, which absolutely doesn't matter. We need to know which public companies are operating in the market, which are those that do not operate in the market, but they are necessary, and that we definitely say in advance – yes, these public enterprises are necessary to the state of Serbia during this and that time period, these are not and we will go into our own transformation. That's my suggestion for the new Public Business Act. As for the choice of management, director of large public enterprises, respected friends, I have the privilege of cooperating, of hearing from people who run large multinational companies. Imagine if some big multinational company, let's say Coca-Cola, had called a competition for the head of the company. People would laugh. Public business directors are led by people who have integrity, who have a direct result. These talks are being held for years, negotiated as with the tenant, in order for Serbian citizens to understand me better, football coaches. When I talked to the Toshiba people about it, they laughed and said – 20 million applications would arrive in Japan for such a contest, CV, which fully meet the requirements. So, the Public Enterprises Act and the selection of directors, the result and the business programme of that public enterprise, and the company, and the red underlining that corporation, that company, that public enterprise in the next financial year, will earn so much and so much or if it has had a business loss, that loss will be reduced by so much and so much. It's a rapper how to work and how. All of this is another popular story for the citizens of Serbia, a cute story about the department, not to say it's a man from this party, but we'll find him in a competition, his name is not known, his last name is even less, he'll do some brilliant things for us, and then he'll disappear, and we'll say, well, gentlemen, he's not a member of our political party. These are some of my practical suggestions. As for the set of laws following the public sector, I would point to the Public Procurement Act. You know very well, as I do, that there are narrow throats and there is something to do, but I would ask you not to do it, not that I reduce the value of the Serbian Parliament in writing amendments, in expertise, but that people would have to work directly from these large systems or the smaller ones who face such problems on a daily basis. That must be a useful initiative. At the same time, a law that is important to me is the Law on Business Society, which was adopted very quickly in this congregation. I think it requires complete processing, because it doesn't represent any continuity with the law that we had before, so I'm going to give you an example of so-called. two-time governance in large public enterprises. What does that mean, practically? I have six other executive directors. The law says that when I leave six today, they need to agree what to do, and he says, everyone has the right to launch whatever initiative they want. Imagine conditionally, under the name of the six Serbs who try to negotiate today what they're going to do. I'm telling you in an operational sense, the law is badly done, there is no continuity with our legislation that has treated economic problems and would require it to be completed. This is the legislative framework that needs to be amended. As for this segment of the public, it can be someone who is significantly full of the Republic of Serbia's budget, I am fully convinced and I am more than convinced. That doesn't mean we're not going into our own transformation, that doesn't mean we're not using a model to get into a large public enterprise into foreign capital. That's very desirable. Doesn't mean there's no foreign management coming in, but there's something bothering me with the decision-making process. I would stay with the idea that the state of Serbia always has that golden card in decision making. She's very important. Why? I'll tell you, there's a segment that's just been touched by colleagues, it's a financial segment, it's a business bank. We have five or six banks in which the state of Serbia has ownership. You know very well, not to mention the Post Office, the Serbian Bank, Jubmes, Commercial, etc. What about these banks? Are these alienated Indian tribes, what is it, states in the state? What about their winnings? I can tell you an interesting piece of information. These four state-owned banks, conditionally state-owned, made a profit of not half of the one the Serbian Post Office had this year. It's a shame. The question arises – whose debts have we settled in these banks? The state of Serbia owns these banks, the state of Serbia owns a package of shares in most of them more than 50%. Therefore, you have the right, absolutely, to speak in the same way with the management of these banks as with the management of public enterprises. We also have the right to ask that at the end of the business year, a portion of the profits we determine be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to talk about what kind of credit policy there should be in state-owned banks. Please, credit policy, one bank's business policy is determined by the bank's assembly, and Serbia has a majority in that assembly. If we can't do it in foreign banks, that's fine, but we can do it in ours. It's one of my suggestions, because without that merger, without a harmonised credit policy course, you'll hardly have the right instruments for your work and for your work. Speaking of the public sector, I'd like to mention something else. You've already had enough experience as president of the Chamber of Commerce and you've met quite a bit with the public sector. There's no question that there's something called self-destruction of these systems. You have a system of a large public company that is a monopolies, which has no competitors on the market, and at the same time collapses. So this collapse of this system is not the result of the operation of other systems outside, it's not the result of sharp competition, it's the weakness within these systems. It's so-called. The phenomenon of self-destruction of these systems and it can, in an organizational humane sense, be overcome very quickly. I expect you to be able to solve this problem for no longer than six months. It's internal stuff. These companies, these companies, can create such organisational schemes to carry out responsibility from top to bottom, to connect anything for no longer than six months so that they can turn around and deal with the competition that will appear on our market. These are some of my most well-intentioned suggestions that I hope you'll take into consideration. They have a simple thing to do. What's my motive? Starting economic activity, filling the budget. It's a way to balance the budget. It is a way, respected friends, respected Serbian citizens, that someone does not think as much and when his salaries and pensions will be reduced. Before we get to that point and say it will be reduced wages and pensions, we need to clear ahead of the citizens of Serbia to go out and say yes, we did everything we could, we removed all the weaknesses that were up to us, we did everything we could to start economic activity. I wish you success in your work. This sentence is important. Your success will be the success of all of us. This is Serbia. Your failure, just yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8185	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, highly respected colleagues, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Sertic, for mentioning the camera atmosphere in the Serbian Parliament, a previously respected colleague. And it's just a reflection, I'd say camera atmospheres in our economy. You know that the current situation in our economy, in the last two years, and what it has been, and I can also say as a result of the bad moves of the previous years, so I'm not ablimate anyone in this situation, really, really, really bad. You've heard that from each of the colleagues who spoke today, and you've heard about everyone giving you support. You've taken a very difficult job. First I'm going to start with a little more positive stuff about what you've been doing so far. You're the man who comes from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce where I think you've been a very short period. During the time you were in the Chamber of Commerce, your colleagues mostly speak very positively, I must point that out. Also, you are followed by a positive voice in terms of the organisation, connecting the professional, to say the esnafian, our potential and exporters to the Russian market where you did the same, it seems to me a positive job. However, you are now entering a government that you of course support because you are a member of the ruling party, which in the past two years has indeed failed to make a positive move in our economy and our economy. The numbers are that, unfortunately, show. The only positive parameter is export growth. Export growth due to the ‘Fiat’. Well, that's something to say goodbye anyway. As a representative of the opposition, I don't want to argue here today about you, but it is my duty to present matters concerning the situation in our economy, in the shortest lines and say a few words about you personally, as a candidate. It's a simple custom and a normal thing when choosing a new minister. Today's situation in the Serbian economy is really and really bad because we have a steady growth in taxes, the country's constant growth in its efforts to collect income, and the continuous decline in the collection of these same incomes. In order for the citizens to understand, respected citizens are raising you incessantly the commitments you have to pay, and the budget has an increasing deficit. The budget is now almost 9%, a budget deficit in Serbia, which is an absolute record in Europe. Although Mr Dacic mentioned it, we have a slight rise in employment this month, but when you look at the entire quarter and when you look at it especially for the last two years, since you've been in power we unfortunately have an increase in unemployment. Although the ruling parties have done their best to fill these very public enterprises that we're talking about with your party people. The Democratic Party advocates that public enterprises are indeed decommissioned, and indeed in real competitions, people are elected and well paid for what they are going to do, and that it is completely irrelevant who is in which party, and not this fine situation as we now have. We don't even have a set-up but we still have party people running public enterprises, and they're leading them absolutely into losses. You know that. One of the things you're going to face. The second thing you're going to face is that in Serbia it's constantly collecting everything, and the people have a real decline in standards and can no longer pay basic taxes, let alone provide themselves with decent existence. You belong to a government that intends to cut wages and pensions. The Democratic Party believes that if you cut wages and pensions, I know that some in the government of yours support us, but they may not say, there will simply be a cycle of collapse in the Serbian economy where wage cuts and pensions will drop demand, drop demand and production and trade activities, and we will fall all the parameters for which you will be in charge. That's what's really bothering us. We believe that the policy of the Serbian government is completely wrong, in the wrong direction. She's set up on some neoliberal concept hybrid. The hybrid is sometimes seen in Tacherism, sometimes in an attempt to unskilled imitation of Djindjic, once Disrael, once Putin, as my esteemed colleague Zivkovic says, and all is, of course, theoretical Max Weber, but the point is that it is to the citizens of Serbia, we are confident, unfortunately cannot bring any improvement. The economy that you are now and the economic situation that you are taking is so bad that I can't imagine that you are so capable, so professional that you can change it for the better. I would like, as a citizen of Serbia and everyone we represent, who are equal citizens of Serbia, to want you to be successful in what you are doing. We doubt that. Why? Because you are the fourth Minister of Business in the Third Government of Alexander Vukic. Fourthly, you've changed three agriculture ministers, you've changed three finance ministers, you've changed three education and education ministers, you're fourth, so you're a little above the others. You come as four. It is impossible to achieve any economic stability, predictability, a planned view of how our economy will continue to develop, if you, Mr Sertic, are now reunited with the situation of being a beachkeeper in the winter period. That's what we're worried about. Don't let it all depend on one man's political will. We view the government of Serbia as a government where there is one minister and other advisers, except for Mr Dacic, who tries once successfully, sometimes not, to keep both political and ideological, and if you want the programme profile in that government, but with huge problems, but I won't talk about it, the colleagues who are in the SPS room today are the only ones who applaud Mr Dacic until the SNS applauds. When you might get a chance to talk, it'll be the other way around. It shows, unfortunately, I have to say, really without the intention of arguing, that it shows one problem, one misunderstanding, and one call of ununity in your coalition. You know that very well. It's not normal, Mr. Sertice, to be removed from a chamber where I think you've worked very correctly, to be put in charge of the economy. That you're taking over this economy in a catastrophic state, that we don't know what the program is, what the work plan is. What does that mean? What are you going to do with the restructuring companies? Someone mentioned them today, over 150. Where's your social segment? What about the people who get severance? What will be the severance? What's going to happen to these people? These are the things you inherit. That's where I agree. The question also raises how you will attract foreign investors without investors from the United Arab Emirates. We have nothing against them, before colleagues rise up to rebel, we have nothing against them, capital is capital, but it must be brought into Serbia by clearly foreseen rules, in a legal manner. The most important thing for Serbian citizens, in an open way, is that people see what it is. Everything else raises constant suspicions and uninterrupted suspicions, and political battles that we should fight in public in the Serbian Parliament. That doesn't need a Serbian economy. The Serbian economy needs a financial injection that does not exist. I would like you to be in public, because, unfortunately, you can't, and here I agree with Mr Dacic, I think that this is one disastrous provision that makes it impossible for you to say, I would like to hear from you in public what you are planning specifically to do on the development plan of the Serbian economy, that it doesn't all come down to what is the will of the Prime Minister, which you all are doing capitarianly, without being able to say or do anything at all, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that this policy comes down to saving, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that you are still abnormally extensively spending people's money, which is to raise funds at the lowest possible level. Only the construction industry is now less than 28% compared to the previous year. The previous year was lower by 38% compared to the previous year. Remember how many Mr. Dulics were attacked here, who had 40 per cent higher levels of engagement in the construction industry. It's true, and everything else is stories and politics. I'm curious, say, what are you going to do about it? I'm interested in how over 200,000 business entities in Serbia to encourage you to, on the one hand, which is not your job, because it's the Ministry of Finance, to pay taxes and contributions, which have been raised, to hire new people as the prime minister promised, to buy a 200-euro square apartment in Belgrade, as the prime minister promised to go to work in Icarbus, as the prime minister promised to make a Mercedes bus, which is not there, or to go to a chip factory that does not have, or to go to work for the Etyhad on a contract that of the five items the prime minister presented two? This is now a concrete request to you. I am asking you as Minister of Business and Economy, a man who is a political figure now, definitely, you are leaving the world of esnaf and the world of employers and entering the world of politics, as well as Mr Vujovic, absolutely the same, that you do everything to deliver to the public the missing three elements of the Etyhad contract as soon as possible, to see how specifically paid for what, to see if it is true for two million euros for legal services that are paid. Is it true? That's what I'm interested in. I want to know how you're going to solve large economic systems in a way that says in public that, for example, Mr. Kostic is going to run "The Railway", here we heard earlier, and no competition has been carried out, what is the legal obligation? How do you plan to solve that? I'm interested, too, in what will you do about this sale of land to the Arabs as a government? Here, Mr. Dacic can say. How do you plan to continue strategic partnerships where Serbia gives everything and a foreign investor nothing or almost nothing, which is a unique example on the European continent? How are you going to adapt to exporting Serbian products to the Russian market without additional subsidies, which is what you have committed to the EU, which is what I think is positive? How do you plan to continue the subsidy policy with such a thin budget? How many people will be out of work after your economic reforms? How do you predict budget rebalancing in the domain of the economy and how do you predict and how it works and what is the concept of the future work of the Fund for the Development of Serbia or, for example, the Export Bank? You know there's all kinds of ideas out there, they've all been taking them out. I'm very interested in what you would do here, because that's what the citizens want to hear from you. The citizens won't hear that Mr. Sertic came as some magician, so now he'll solve all economic problems. That's impossible, but also don't you have the illusion that for now, I repeat for now, and you hope me and please deny me, people are seeing you as someone who's been brought to work in one segment and not asking much questions. I hope that you will effectively deny it in the coming days. I understand the political decision and I understand the political power of the prime minister, but you run the economy and the economy. If you behave in an office manner, there will be no movement, and even if you try to do those neoliberal things that we will condemn, but at least do something, at least write down the property of these companies, at least continue with those ID cards that Radulovic started. That's a good concept. At least find out what exactly who owes who before you sell something. Try to explain to the prime minister that he is not going public and speaking – we will give as much as they ask, just to take the businesses. Please don't do that. That puts us in a difficult situation. I also ask you, although it is the least popular question and the matter of your personal concern. I'm from New Now, so I know, don't follow you absolutely anything negative. I'm glad you've been in business and I'm glad you're coming from the economy, but I'm not happy with what I already said, that you're already being dragged out of the Chamber of Commerce and they're throwing you into something that I'm afraid you won't have the capacity to solve because first I don't think you're competent enough, and the second one won't let you. The other thing is, I'm afraid you won't have your own me in that situation, and I wish you did. Let's just say, this is something that the public is very interested in, not me personally, but I'd like to hear the answer for the public. You ran the Chamber of Doo company and Forex company doo. First it was in a cash-lock for 118 days, and the second one was 414 days. These are your companies. How do you respond to these accusations of non-national, rude, hostile opposition that if you have an account blockade, how can you lead the economy? Second, you're a man who recently graduated from Union University. You're 1967. You're the man who spent a lifetime in business. Why is that? Tell these people they know what this is about. One more thing. I don't think it's a shame to be blocked in terms of businesses, because, unfortunately, it's a synonym for the state of our economy. There's no man who does business seriously without getting into that situation. It's just our reality. You've been choked by taxes, choked by contributions, choked by suppliers, you can't pay. We have an unequivocal economy. One of the basic tasks that you have to solve is indivisibility, inability to pay, breaking deadlines. Everyone's waiting for everyone, and nobody's paying anything, plus you have a law on public procurement that unfortunately doesn't apply and that doesn't make the savings they promised us from the majority, Mr. Arsic. What I'm interested in asking you is, do you know who your associates are at the Department of Economy? That's a very important question. You have as an associate... In a formal sense, the first man is the secretary of state. Is that right? Your secretary of state is Mr. Dragan Stevanović, a man with the name of Bosca. The gentleman was a mechanical technician until 2008, and then graduated from Union University in 2008. Now this man, along with you, will graduate from Sremska Kamenica, is likely to take care of Serbia's economy. You know that the prime minister often points out that the team is the essence of a successful job. Are you going to make some changes there, when, in what way? You will surely agree that expertise is one of the things that simply cannot be questioned by such a great challenge as you will have. I simply think that the flow of the Serbian economy is deeply tied up in a huge problem, that things don't work, that things are increasingly and deeper looking at the Serbian budget as a salvation, that people don't pay taxes, they don't pay commitments, they don't pay contributions, taxes are up, incomes are down, prices are up, employment is up, there's not enough foreigner in lying, they're minimal. You are facing an economic environment of 7.5 million people, which is highly agricultural-oriented, who all wants to live in a city that has to process food to the finished product because there is a future. What are you going to do about it? What will be the incentive to whom and in what way? Is it going to be transparent, legal, or is it all going to be subject to a UAE contract that says, "You can do anything and don't ask anything?" This is what the citizens of Serbia will not and that is what will be one of your biggest challenges. Many have told you, God help you, and I will not tell you. I'll tell you that you're a man who has courage because he takes on something that I'm sure deep down he knows he can't solve it, but he's relying on the political power of the prime minister, thinking that it's a man like Superman everything can come and end. You will prove in the coming months whether you are a beachkeeper in the winter period or you are indeed one man who managed to break the shackles of the political frameworks, to act in a social way in the economy. No one talked about it today. That segment will be your most important to you, Mr. Sertic. You who come from employers and capitalists, I'm not sure you're sensitive enough to torment those who will be victims of your future moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8187	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8188	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. Chairman, have been injured by Article 107, or I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely injured. The previous speaker has, of course, made a number of lies, but what hit the SNS parliamentary group particularly, is the untruths about the current secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy of Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, otherwise one very hardworking, safe and responsible man, who has so far committed to doing his job, a man who enjoys the great trust of the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, the trust of all those who have had the opportunity to work with him, because he is a man who keeps his word and because he is a man who wants to help in that area for whom he is responsible, and this was once a regional development and local self-government, and later in business. What is a harsh untruth, related to Mr. Stevanovic, is that in 2008, the University of Union in Sremska Kamenica, as the previous speaker said, since I have known Mr. Stevanović for many years and since he is not only my party colleague, but I also consider him my personal friend, responsiblely argue that what Mr. Stefanovic said is not true. I don't think the hatred that someone has for SNS justifies anyone and doesn't give anyone the right to talk about SNS officials, who do some important business in the state, is false.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8189	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8190	Thank you. What I want to say on behalf of the SNS is that we are not making coalitions based on applause, based on contingents and quotas, based on functions, but based on programmes and preparedness to participate in reforms. We are not the kind of people who will insult and swear and say anything until yesterday, and then when the 6% of the AP Vojvodina is shaken, when it turns out they can't have 6% of the support of citizens to rule a large part of the territory and a large number of Serbian citizens, then they're both good and they're former and then the opinion changes overnight. A series of lies, a series of insults, spoke of by my distinguished colleague, Mr. Martinovic. I will no longer talk about hate coming from the other side, I will no longer talk about cheering for Serbia to fail, to stop everything in Serbia and to bankrupt Serbia. I will not allow Serbia to be spoken of only in the past two years. I want to talk about Serbia in the past 12 years, to talk about Serbia whenever it has a commitment and a burden and was responsible for the exercise of power. I can't understand it, and I don't want to understand that respected foreign investors, people who are well welcomed in every country, are just waiting for a knife in Serbia. I am not going to allow the flat rate that the Al Rafaved project is worse than Milet Jerkovic, that Mile Jerkovic, a drug-carter money launderer, is a better co-worker for the state, and he was an associate of the former regime's government, but rather a respected company in the world frameworks. I will not accept that someone is bad because his company is in a blockade, and hundreds and tens of thousands of Serbian firms are, unfortunately, in a blockade today. It's not a sin. It is the payment of the situation in which the economy is located because of the irresponsible governments of the previous regimes. Is this a recipe when the former party president to whom the former speaker belongs only at the time of the ministry or mayorship of the largest city in Serbia received his firm and earned a profit of 39 billion dinars?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8191	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8192	Is it a recipe to be in power, and then your company is successful? No, the recipe is to share the fate of the economy as Mr Sertic did and at a time when he was in private business and at a time when he was president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8193	Thank you. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a replica to the direct mention of the name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I came forward because the name and last name and the Public Procurement Act were mentioned, especially since the law allegedly failed to deliver the expected savings, as planned. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to inform you that the savings have been achieved in two ways. The first way is to make more jobs with the same amount of money than before. Another way is financial savings, in the right sense of the word. I don't want to take too much of what they are and how much financial savings are, just to say that the biggest crime in public procurement was a negotiating process, which, behold, was carried out in 70% of public procurement by 2012. Just remember the famous affair about getting medicines for the Belgrade Apothecary Institute in 2013, where someone knowingly sabotaged the Public Procurement Act, to prove he was bad, so that he could continue to put money in his pockets, left Belgrade's citizens without medication. Then we had famous attacks by this Serbian Parliament that the government of the Republic of Serbia had stolen the Health Protection Fund and transferred it to the PIO Fund 300m euros. Mr. Chairman, because of the savings made by the Public Procurement Act, a sufficient amount of medicine was obtained and a 300m-euro savings was made...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8195	Mr. Sutanovac, allow the speaker to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8196	Now, Mr. Chairman, you can imagine, various public procurement laws have been in place for 10 years. Imagine just on the Health Services Fund 300m euros someone put in pockets outside of funds and out of supply. Multiply that when you're 10, you're going to get to three billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8197	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8198	The Honorable Chairman, Article 109. I would like to urge you to conduct this session in an appropriate manner and that opposition MPs do not receive, especially without arguments, and unfortunately, they or that minister they called "the plasma minister" at the time and who wanted plasma television to exist in each room. So please conduct this session in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8199	Thank you. If you've noticed, I've warned Mr. Sutanovec who was throwing himself out of place. Do you want the Assembly to declare this injury to the Rules of Procedure? No, thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable First Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Guests, I believe that a member of 108 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the Honored Chairman, did not intervene on Mr. Jovicic's speech. Mr. Jovicic here just said that the MPs of the opposition are winning. Mr. Zivkovic and I are opposition MPs. We didn't say a word here during any previous speaker's speech. Please, Mr. Chairman, hold a session by reminding the MPs of the ruling coalition every time, in this case, the SNS, when they do not comply with the Rules of Procedure, and especially not to extend your time to speak to Mr. Babic and Mr. Arsic, because you immediately interrupt us when the second minute passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8201	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8202	I thank the esteemed... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8203	There's got to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We'll come back to you. It's not forbidden here hundreds of times to injure the Rules of Procedure to expose. Just say the word, you're the one who answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8204	I'm reporting as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8205	Sure, I just don't tend to give my colleagues my word, then sit down and get up like little kids. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: It was the same with Stefanovic. That's why I came in to prevent that kind of thing. The word has been given by Ambassador Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8206	Thank you, Madam President. The Honorable First Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Sertic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliament Club, will, of course, support the proposal for a minister of the economy in the day of voting. What I want to say at the very beginning is something I will repeat, which I spoke about a few weeks ago, when we spoke in the Republic Parliament about a proposal for a finance minister, now the current finance minister, Mr Vujovic. So at the beginning of this term, at the time of the constitution, the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS made it very clear that it wants to share the responsibilities and values of this Government of the Republic of Serbia which are contained in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, that we are convinced that, through the realization of what the objectives of the principles of the Government of Serbia are, we are actually working in the best interests of the citizens. The proposal we're talking about today, the proposal we talked about a few weeks ago, when it comes to the finance minister, is, in fact, for us, we view it as part of a single process that will ultimately convince us, change for the better and improvement of the citizens of Serbia. Today we are talking, as has already been said in a recent discussion, about one of the most important and significant resources, I would say, in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS Parliament Club believes that Mr Sertic is a good proposal for the economy minister and we believe that he will work in the best interests of both the Serbian economy and our state. The Minister of Business, or Minister of Business at the beginning of the mandate, expects an extremely large one, I would say, with certainty, a difficult job. We are convinced that, as someone who was led by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the most representative association that actually represents the interests of the economy, as someone who does not need additional time to get to know what the problems of the Serbian economy are, already knows the current developments and flows when it comes to the Serbian economy. As someone who has achieved good results as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, we are convinced that Mr Sertic will have one systemic approach, that he will make a concrete plan of action, which will respond to what we consider a fundamental and key issue, which is how to start and heal and revive the Serbian economy. We believe that, Mr Sertić, you will have one systemic approach to solving major problems in the area of economy and that you will succeed, in some way, to break and reverse those negative trends that exist for many years back and when it comes to employment and when it comes to starting production, but also when it comes to a competitive position. Of course, we will agree with what we could hear in the opening statement of the first Deputy Prime Minister that comprehensive economic reforms are important and that without comprehensive economic reforms Serbia will not be able to survive and Serbia will not be able to feel some positive shift, which is actually our ultimate goal. Of course, we believe that, at this point, the most important thing is to improve both the business and investment climate, to improve the business environment in Serbia, to make Serbia an attractive and attractive investment destination. I think the adoption of a set of reform laws in the Republic of Parliament has created a good basis for the continuation of this process and made one step forward and a qualitative shift in the realization of this extremely important and significant process. It has already been said about this, it is certainly one of the key issues that you will be dealing with, which is that it finally ends and ends in Serbia the privatisation and restructuring process of enterprises, i.e. to solve the problem and put the final point, that the answer to the problem and the question of about 600 companies, as far as I think, the list of Privatisation Agency, 600 companies that employ around a hundred thousand workers, who have the value of assets somewhere around a billion dinars. When I say 600 companies, of course I mean 161 companies in the restructuring process. Such an undefined situation is certainly unsustainable in the long term. You can't have a fictitious job, you can't have minimum profits, you can't have state subsidies, you can't have production, you can't do business, you can't make profit. So it is very important that this process, which takes a very long time, ends and that the largest number of companies and businesses find strategic partners, find strategic partners, launch production, and on the other hand, it is very important that the smallest possible number of citizens, of these hundreds of thousands, as employed in these 600 companies, remain jobless, which was the intensity and goal of adoption, several weeks ago of the Law on Privatisation in the Republic sector. We have said several times so far that we fully support the concept, which has been defined, I will repeat, in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the public sector. Therefore, reform and savings of the public sector and strengthening and encouraging the private sector. As a parliamentary club, the future and chance for Serbia's development are seen in the private sector. We are pleased that a set of economic measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia can show that the private sector is treated in an adequate and appropriate manner. I'm sure you'll be dealing with public enterprises. What I want to say, as a representative of the SPS Parliament Club, is that you will have our support that we have cheaper and more efficient public enterprises, but on the other hand, we must ensure that what is a minimum for socially responsible functioning of public enterprises, because besides reform processes, on the other hand, life in Serbia cannot stop. What we think is very important and that it wants to be part of your activities is to curb the grey economy in Serbia. Some statistics, for example, say in one sentence, say that the gray economy of each Serbian citizen costs an average profit annually, which is unacceptable and unsustainable in the long term. We expect and believe that you will have an impact on shortening bureaucratic procedures to cheaper bureaucratic procedures, because all of this at an annual level is very much costing the economy at this point. Some data suggest that if at this point we wanted to reduce unemployment in Serbia and bring it to one European level, it is 10-12%, in Germany's most developed, it is about 10%, at this point we would have to open 60,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. That would cost a lot, you'll agree with me. Some initial costs would be between 2.5m and 3,000 euros. It's making things a lot harder. We expect that your activities will be directed in that direction. At the very end, in one sentence, we support the proposal to make Mr Sertic a minister in the next period of time. We are confident that it will work in the best interests of both the Serbian economy and the state, and the Serbian citizens. We believe that you will have one, repeat, system approach, approach, such a plan of action that will, I will repeat, give an answer to what is a key and essential issue, and that is how to start and how to revive the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8207	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8208	Madam President, Mr Dacic, Mr Sertic, ladies and gentlemen, the SNS parliamentary group today will support Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and with great pleasure vote for this proposal and vote for Mr Zeljko Sertic. An ominous replacement of thesis, a malicious attempt to put clips in wheels, in points that work very well, are going very well. By law and by constitution, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has proposed Mr Sertic as the Constitution and as the law requires. Mr. Dacic, as the first Deputy Prime Minister, is with us today to explain the proposal, as one on the team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, what is my pleasure is that this was the government that, for the first 100 days of functioning twice, was in parliament to answer all the questions of the MPs, unlike any previous period and the governments of the previous regime, when these governments and these prime ministers came to parliament twice, but for a four-year term. When the government of Alexander Vukic and Prime Minister Mr. Vukic come here, some and individuals from the former regime get diarrhoea, and they don't come, and some who come here, fear the answers, so it's the only fear of answering, fear of success, fear of our country after years and decades of devastation, the destruction has gone forward. Are we satisfied with the speed? It can always be better, but we are working to make that speed maximum and that speed is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not talking about Mr. Sertic's biography. I think it's a biography with no stains, no dark spots. The biography of both the biography and the career speak, speak rewards, speak results. The results are such that Mr Zeljko Sertic was named as the manager of Southeast and Central Europe for 2013 and 2014. These are facts among the presidents of the Chamber of Commerce. In that period, during a short period of presidency, that year and a half, from March 2013 to September 2014, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce was declared the leader of economic progress and the region's most dynamic Chamber of Commerce. And that's what someone wants to keep quiet, and that's what someone wants to close their eyes to those results. That is why my wish, my message to Mr Sertic, is that this same dynamic, that this same leadership, that the same victories of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce pass on and spill over to the Serbian economy. Also, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has proved to be a successful service to businesses in everyday business and to raise Serbian economy's competitiveness over the past year and a half. That is why it is not surprising, but rather agreeing to the messages and support of the Serbian businessmen following the proposal, i.e. after Mr Aleksandar Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, proposed Mr Sertic as Minister of Business. The greatest monster of our society and the most painful subject for every citizen of ours is really high unemployment. The key to reducing the unemployment rate will be in your hands, Mr. Srtic. It'll be in the hands of the economy, in the real sector. The reduction of unemployment is possible only through a further strong fight against corruption, through the creation of a favourable investment climate, through legal solutions by which Serbia will bounce towards competitiveness in countries in the region and because the state cannot and should no longer be the largest employer, but the service to citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. It is unacceptable, though it is difficult, although some colleagues would like to erase their memory, erase everything that happened by 2012 and this hot potato, which was given to both the previous and this government of the Republic of Serbia, is that the unemployment rate in Serbia has increased by four years from 2008 to 2012, from 14.4% to even 26.1%). In the same period, with an unreal and economically unfounded increase in public sector wages and pensions, public debt rose from 34.2% to 62.5% of GDP. The same you, who put us in that cold, cloudy, deep water, are now standing on the shore and saying, "Why don't you swim better, are you cold?" Well, that's hypocritical. The same ones who put us into this level of public debt, which 400,000 people left out of work, is not enough to pay the price in elections and only the political price. There's a moral price because 400,000 people are out of work, out of the future. The situation is in the economy, Mr. Sertic, and we'll all agree, in the slightest word, it's dreary. We are unfortunately now, and today is September 3, 2014, now at the beginning of the privatisation process, 502 companies are located in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. To you, to us, this government of the Republic of Serbia has been left to privatize at the time when all 502 companies have negative capital. There are bigger debts, more obligations of all privatisation entities than their property. Where's the responsibility? Where is the responsibility for missed opportunities in the past when there was no negative capital? How to sell properly and quality and find a strategic partner, enable further production, make life possible for these companies, if you have negative capital? How fast to swim, if besides those 502 companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency you have another 161 firms in restructuring? Our budget has cost 161 companies in restructuring directly or indirectly $800 million a year and so on for years. From 2003 to 2012, when the problem arises, when you don't know what to do with the company, because of lack of courage, due to lack of political and economic ideas, due to lack of knowledge, push for restructuring, push for the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will pay for it, we will owe the budget. Is that the price of social peace? Is that the price of not knowing the former regime and the government of the former regime? Unfortunately, we lived on fraud for years, lived on lies for years, lived for years and spent more than we earned. This government of the Republic of Serbia has a reform spirit, a reform character and a reform direction. We adopted the Privatisation Act, the Privatisation Act, which prescribes new privatisation models, and the deadline for ending the privatisation process of social capital is limited to 31 December 2015. It's not just one reform law. And the law of bankruptcy was passed, because what's going to be your part of the job is to end the privatisation process, what your part of the job is going to be is that you fail to privatize to get your material value out of bankruptcy. The government of the Republic of Serbia, and so far, while many are imputing changes in ministers, it is democratic and normal to change, it is not democratically bad to rule the Vojvodina for 12 years, and you have the support of 6%, e, it is democratic and democratic to change, it is democratic to seek quality. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, is that for these 502 companies located in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, on 15 August 2014, that is, on the day of the publication of the public call for the collection of interest letters, in order to inform the general public, that as many people, foreign partners, domestic partners, natural persons, all those who wish to invest in one transparent, normal, natural way, 74 embassies and consular representations were informed, 53 consulting houses were notified, 10 investment banks were informed, 262 investors who showed interest in privatisation during the previous period. Mr Sertic, I am sure that by the spirit that you had, the agility and energy you had within the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, I am sure that, because of the energy and the Prime Minister and the demand for permanent engagement, one good part of these people who have already been informed about the subjects of privatisation, you will not be able to say – but will call on Serbia to be investors, to capitalise, to buy these companies, to save production, to save jobs, to open new jobs, but also in Serbia to earn money. Serbia is a good soil, a fertile field, abandoned, full of weeds by 2012. We've torn up the weeds by fighting crime and corruption, and we do it permanently and constantly. Because that weed keeps showing up, as soon as you cut your attention. It is up to you, Mr Sertić, at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to make good laws a good investment atmosphere, to make good laws, and to impregnate and sow, and sow, so that it is zeroed and born for decades, for years ahead, for future generations, but also for these generations in the Republic of Serbia. You are expected to have significant legislative activity. The agenda of the Prime Minister, expressed very bravely here in a three-hour discussion by the Prime Minister, is broad, extensive and as promised and fulfilled for the first 100 days, so it will be with the next passing times, whether for the next 100 days or for the next six months. We expect you here, Mr Sertic, and with the law on investment and with the law on incentives and with the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for Privatisation and with the law on amendments to the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks and with many topics we expect you here in the highest legislative home of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the place where the best investment environment is defined by law. The state recognizes the challenges facing the economy. For the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the state of Serbia, there are no favorites, there are no Jerkovics who are much better investors, although they are money launderers. For us, the economy is the same. We know what a difficult situation he's in. This government of the Republic of Serbia has provided dinar loans for liquidity with a subsidized interest rate. It is a matter that has somehow gone quietly through our society, but in this way, with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a large amount of funds, about 1.2 billion euros, has been pump up equally for both large and medium-sized enterprises, but also for micro-enterprises. Credits shall be granted for the purpose of maintaining the liquidity of the financing of permanent trade funds and the refinance of loans to the same bank, up to 10 million dinars for entrepreneurs and micro-legislators, 100 million dinars for small legal entities, 400 million dinars for medium-level legal entities, etc. So far, after three months of implementation of the programme, banks have approved and paid off about 14,600 loans worth 640m euros. This is a significant amount, both for liquidity and for job creation. Of all that, 9.4% is for large companies, 27.3% for medium, 41.2% for small enterprises and 22.1% for micro-enterprises. This is how the government is responsible, so does the responsible state that recognizes the challenges and problems our economy is going through. He's expecting you, and it's not just the price and job of the finance minister, it's yours, the fight against the gray economy. Every unpaid fiscal or unpaid fiscal account means many times less, many schools and many foster homes less, and many hospitals less, but it also means that those people who are in the VAT system, who are responsible, pay taxes, are not loyal to competition for those who do not do such a thing and therefore you as an integral part of the government, I hope and I am sure that you will engage in a strategic fight against the gray economy. We as a state need victory. We need many more projects such as "Er Serbia". We need projects, though one of the former regime's parties, whether out of hatred, whether out of jealousy, whether from some kind of pathology towards its own people, its own state, wants to devastate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8209	Please, let's just pick our words, even if it's a question mark.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8210	... Thank you. What I want to say, not to say descriptively, not to speak out loudly, not to speak out of political blindness, I'm telling you in fact. Jat Erviz, as Mr Dacic said in his opening statement, achieved annual losses of 30m euros and more than one million euros a year. This year's projected a 1m-euro "Er Serbia" win. Crew, fleet, Jat Erviz, an outdated fleet of four functional aircraft, B-7, 3-7, 300, age over 25, three parked, cannot fly. Now, the new fleet - ten A-319 and A-320 planes, the average age below 10 years, 10 ordered A-320 to arrive by 2018, the increase in the number of passengers of 70% to the current 944 thousand people that Er Serbia has transported. That's all compared to the first half of 2013. Freight transport has reached 32% increase in value and 65% increase in tolerance. It's a success. This is for every respect. But also for any condemnation of one who wants to close his eyes and say – no, we didn't need "Er Serbia". Yes, gentlemen, we needed her. But we still need a lot of "Er Serbia". That is why I, Mr Sertic, look forward and support everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, whose component you will be from today. I am pleased to announce that on September 12th, although I believe that the same people who suffer from Er Serbia will get hurt now, in Nis, Johnson Electronics will open 1,000 jobs in an investment of 15m euros. Subotica envisions opening for September 18th "Calcedonia", 1,000 jobs, 16.5m euros in investment. "Michelin" has since 9 October in Pirot, the opening of a new plant, although already present there, seen a good spirit, saw a good climate created by the government of the Republic of Serbia, another 500 jobs in an investment of 220m euros. Leoni in Doljevac for October of this year – 1,500 jobs, 21m euros in investment. “PKC” in Smederev, a cornerstone of 5 September, 1,500 jobs. “Svarovski” in Subotica in construction, the opening was planned for 2015, for the first half, 550 jobs. "Geoks" in Vranj, I was and had the honour of attending the opening, it is under construction, the opening is planned for 2015, 1,250 jobs. There's a chance for Serbia. It is much work before you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, that the state of Serbia, to position the economy of the Republic of Serbia as you position the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, as leader in this part of Europe, as leader in the Balkans, because I think that's what Serbian citizens expect and deserve. I wish you good luck and satisfaction that we will work together in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8211	I thank Ambassador Babic. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8212	Madam President of the Assembly, Mr. First Prime Minister, Mr. Sertic, candidate for Minister of Industry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have already heard from the presentation of the president of the JS parliamentary group that the JS parliamentary group will support Mr. Vukic's proposal to elect Mr. Zeljko Sertic as Minister of Industry. Why are we going to support this proposal? There's been a lot of noise from Mr. Markovic's proposal, and I'll just mention a few more things in a few minutes. We from JS are particularly pleased and pleased that the head of the Ministry of Economy will come a man who has long experience in the economy, who knows what it means when the first and 15 of the month comes, when it is necessary to secure the salary for the employees of the company and who, according to my knowledge, has worked very successfully. So, I don't belong to those businessmen who run their firms, and they're doing well, and their employees don't have regular incomes. So that's what they're looking for in the Serbian economy. I will not talk and take time from all of us here in the Assembly about the situation in which the Serbian economy is today and the reasons why it is in such a situation. The reasons are well known to all of us and the general public has many and subjective circumstances that have led to this and perhaps more subjective, and there are objective circumstances. The future Minister of Business Mr Sertic, you will be faced with a major challenge in the future, which is that you will have to create conditions or as popular as it is said – a business environment, that successful businesses in Serbia are even more successful, and that those who are less successful in finding ways to get out of the crisis they have come into and that they can regularly carry out their economic activity and regularly pay their salaries, i.e. earning their employees. Of course, it won't be an easy job at all, and you'll have a problem in particular, I'm sure, and that's what we talked about from JS when it was the selection of the finance minister, with companies that have been in restructuring for years. These were once very large and powerful companies with thousands of employees in their plants. Today they have much fewer employees and so with a small number of employees again do not have regular incomes or have regular, but a lot of low incomes. We suggest that these companies be reorganised, but indeed a fundamental reorganisation of these companies, to see what is healthy and what can be done and what can survive in the market. What can't and doesn't have a perspective to slowly shut down and employees in these plants don't lose their jobs in these parts of the company, but to focus on those companies, businesses, business entities that can successfully operate. On the other hand, we suggest that you and JS rely a little more on local self-government and that they get the task of bringing investors into their municipalities, into their cities, and not waiting for all the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Serbia to do so. Someone may also resent what I'm about to say, but I think a positive example in Serbia is the city of Jagodina, which did not wait with its leadership to bring investors from the government and to make people drive and hire people, but to find, with the help of its acquaintances, friends, associates living abroad, business partners, investors who will drive in some local self-government in a specific case in Jagodina. On the other hand, Mr. Sertic, I strongly suggest that you take people with knowledge and experience for your associates, but that knowledge that has been fertilized and that results in the application of a company. Let go of these so-called. the acquired experts who knew everything in the circle, just didn't know that they were placing their knowledge and that they were increasing production in a company and in a company, etc. I have a lot of smart people who have results behind them, although they don't have the name experts behind their names or in front of their names, but they have results in their work in managing state, public, private enterprises. You need people like that in your environment. You need people who will tell you clearly, loudly and argumentably - Mr. Minister, you're wrong about that proposal, we have a better proposal. Do not be skeptical of these people or be angry with them, but commend them if they have a good proposal, if they have a good solution for improving the Serbian economy. We're sick of those self-proclaimed experts boasting about some results, and the results are not zero, but minus one. So, there's nowhere to show and what to show that these are their acquired knowledge, I'll be free to say, fertilize somewhere. Only work and the results of a man's work can give him a ticket so that he can do some work and that he can join the ministry and create an economic environment from that position to make better work, make better work, make more money and get better wages, and thus make a better life. You have certainly met many things that are happening in Serbia's economy for as short a time as you have led the PKK. When we say Serbia's economy, I mean, by economy, in a broader sense and Serbia's agriculture, where we have huge potentials, unfortunately, untapped because many governments in the past have not heard that this potential is being exploited and that what God has given us has given us to be placed on the European and world market. Let's not do this today, let's not blame ourselves, I won't say that we should stop on that path and not develop in that process, but we can't compete today with Japan or with some other countries in the production of computers and some other appliances or with Germany and France in the production of cars, etc. But we can compete with everyone in Europe and the world in food production, healthy apples, healthy pears, healthy tomatoes, healthy peppers and all that is produced from corn, wheat. What Serbia has and where it needs very little investment, but all it needs is understanding for those who produce it, to pay it in time, to take away that product and not to be deceived as it happens many times. Since time is running out for me, you don't have to remind me how much time I have, I will finally say that you have the full support of the JS Parliament Club and be sure and confident that for all your proposals and your amendments and additions to the laws or new laws that you propose for the benefit of the Serbian economy we will support me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8213	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8214	Thank you very much. Today, we will choose 33 ministers in the last two years, in these two Governments of Aleksandra Vukic and Ivica Dacic, and Mr Sertic will be the fifth Minister of Industry and says so in himself. In the biography we got, there's not much to read. I'm sure your biography is much more content, but in what we've got, we have one big hole between 17 May 1967 when you were born and in March 2013, when you were elected president of the PKK as the only candidate, because there's nothing in between. Of course, there are also some awards about whose value you and I and the Serbian public know a lot, so I don't want to do much, nor are you, Mr Sertic, the subject of today's session, because you will be chosen safely. There is no doubt about it, but as the fifth minister to be placed in the post by Aleksandar Vukic with a lower or greater consent from Ivica Dacic and as the fifth minister to leave with a full backpack, with a full pack of bad emotions and bad news because you will be blamed for what is not good in the Serbian economy. Of course that's not true. Of course, you can't be blamed for that, but you'll be the victim that the voters will need to be put up with or said in six months or nine months -- here we were again, at the top of the government, having a brilliant idea, but someone didn't know how to implement it. It was the fate of Dinkic, who was the first minister of economy in this coalition, so Radulovic, and Mirovic, Vujovic, who in time fled to a more secure place, but he will end up probably the same as the others, and you are the fifth. Since you can't talk, which I think is a bad practice, tell the vice president to tell us when you think you're resigning. And you will be not guilty of your own guilt for what Serbia is today in a commercial sense, and that means we have historic unemployment that is now close to 25%. With some talking about earlier times and earlier regimes, in March 2004, when I taught the government's office, unemployment in Serbia was 14%. On that same day, we were 71st in competition, and today Serbia is 94th in place, which is progress compared to last year, when we were 101. At that time, the euro cost 62.2 dinars, and today over 118 dinars. A year before that, in 2003, investments in Serbia were nearly three billion dollars, and last year it was barely half a billion dollars. That year, Serbian bureaucracy, all public sector employees numbered 504,000, and today it's 784 thousand and something. It's a state of Serbian economy. We heard we have one big rescue for Serbia, which is "Er Serbia". Of course it is a topic that is very famous in Serbia. This government managed to do something that none of them had done before, which is that all Serbian citizens are participating in the work of an airline, but not by having shares and dividends, but because everyone is paying the airline, just as it was in the time of the previous government controlled by Boris Tadic, for the truth to be present. Therefore, "Er Serbia" remains under large subsidies that they write in that part of the contract that we did not have the honour of winning. Of course, there were a lot of promises just before everything opened in September, October, November and December this year and next year. Let me just say that's how the chip factory in Pancheva was promised two years ago. As far as I know, there's no chip factory in the Balkans, let alone in Pancheva. Also, the large cargo centre was promised, "Mercedes" from "Icarbus", etc., etc. One newspaper issues this supplement, called "businesses". On page 40 there are jobs offered through the competent service, through the National Employment Service. Only on two pages are real-sector jobs, and on page 38, you can check, there are public-sector jobs. I'm telling you this because this or some similar government has decided that there is no more employment in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8215	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8216	I'm badly interpreted. I am pleased when someone so publicly and openly says that they are against their country, against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It may be part of political expression, but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have paid costs until the Er Serbia project, paid bad business, party business in the Jat Erveiz management. Who paid these losses of 30, 37 so I don't know how many million euros a year? Well, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And now the previous speaker is bothered that "Er Serbia" will make a million-euro profit this year. Maybe it could've been more. I believe that there will be more in the future, but if we have had three 25-year-old planes in the past, and now you have a problem with 10 planes that are up to 10 years old, it bothers you that by 2018 "Er Serbia" will get another 10 er-bases A320, it bothers you that we are better at catering than "Lufthansa". Why is there always someone in our society who's bothered by success? And in opposition, I was looking forward to the successes of our country, because that is the success of our country, not politics, the success of our country. On the other hand, I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic isn't here, all of what I've not announced, and I'm very happy, without the desire to challenge the replica, but I'm very happy to sit down with Mr. Zivkovic in the same car and pass through to see the halls made, machines in place, ready jobs, ready production...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8217	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8218	... Happy people who will work there. I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic is not here, because I didn't even have time to say "North Carton" in Jagodina, opening also for the beginning of 2015 with 200 employees. I didn't even have time to talk about "Swarovski" in Subotica, about the PKK in Smederev...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8219	Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8220	... about many other projects that are being done and jobs that we are fighting for.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8221	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic, Cinderella. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8222	I hope this replica doesn't upset Vice President Dacic, who's drowned in one hibernation on this subject. Yes, you mentioned the “Swarovski” three times before and the president of your party once 18 times, Boris Tadic once 48 times, Dinkic once 225 times, and I think that “Swarovski” is more mentioned than there are those glasses in one of those “Swarovski” necklaces or in all possible. So it's not a big deal. The important thing is that we can't be thrilled at the beginning of the 21st century by making halls. Of course they're making halls. It's a completely natural thing. They played 200 years ago, they were made 50 years ago, 100 years ago, and today they're made. The thing is, it doesn't bother me. My patriotism and what I think of this country, that's not what I'm talking about. I've been on the political scene long enough, I've done everything and everything, so let someone else, future generations, the Encyclopaedia of Britannica, the authorities, whoever they want, but what I can't stand is a lie. The best lie currently in Serbia is "Er Serbia" because 99.5% of people in Serbia are not even able to approach the Belgrade airport, let alone fill in one of the nine not new but used, new but used planes than they were two years ago, that is true, but that they are new, they are not. You can talk fairy tales about it. Who knows if it had this much to do with the economy, what will be the profits of a state in July, when business is estimated in February and March of the month? It could be an accounting exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8223	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8224	Realistically, $50 million is being thrown... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8225	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8226	Because of the professional, but also of all other public, the first unskilled review by the IFRS standards, which are international standards of financial reporting, showed a million euros in profits this year, Mr Zivkovic, not ominously, but internationally-verified standards. It's a shame you're moving on. It's sad that now in the realization that our people live badly, and in that I agree, they've been living badly for years and decades, they don't have the money to fly, and I agree, is it your approach to need a national air carrier to shut down, to shut down everything that has a national premise, and not to bring profit of a million euros? Let's turn it off, let's send people home. The tanks were cut, the tanks melted. Let's cut the planes too. Let's make it from the airport. I don't know what, the bowling runway. Sell boats, so we had to beg from privates and look in Obrenovac, when it was bad and when human lives were saved instead of Serbian Army boats, they were saved by private boats. Let's sell it all out, let's give it all away, let's waste it all. If this is the concept, say it openly – you want to shut down JAT Airways, Er Serbia, anything that has a national omen. No, we think it's good for one nation to have its national operator in air transport, that it's good that it's built "Er Serbia", d'it's good that it became a company only after a year which is profitable, that it's good that it's a company that already measures some company in the environment in the future and it's good that it's finally after years and ten years we can plan, and from next year we travel directly from Belgrade and to some destinations that we could only dream of, like the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8227	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Please, I think we should close the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8228	As far as I'm concerned, we're closing now. From the end, Belgrade-New York's direct flight existed until 2003. Some senseless government was abolished in 2004 because of indemnity. It's just the architene can do...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8229	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, choose your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8230	I'm sorry, just an asshole, no "arhi". Second, let's stop with the epic lies. What kind of tank melting in Smederev? Ask that or Tadic, who was one of the founders of the SNS, not a member, but the founder, helped establish, or ask Dacic, who was around the government the whole time. Even if someone wanted to melt tanks in Smedereva, it's technologically impossible. Ask the current Secretary of Defense, ask the future Minister of Economy, perhaps in the Chamber of Commerce know that this is technologically impossible. It has nothing to do with this story. In 2003. JAT then had a loss that year of $300,000. And that's when it could've been a profit deal. Of course, JAT debts are large in historical terms from the previous period, as they are today great when they were not written off by the state. Generally, don't call on patriotism, because it's a thin yarn where you're trying to build your own political survival. A national company, just because it's national, shouldn't have any if its existence is impossible. I can tell you for days about countries that are very big and bigger than Serbia, which don't have their own airline, so they're alive and well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8231	Time. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8232	It is a bad approach if it is said – at the end of my term there were so many unemployed or, in 2003, a loss was achieved only in relation to the losses achieved by 2012. It really is. But why don't you say, when I came and took responsibility, the loss or the number of unemployment was so high, so the loss was reduced, so unemployment was reduced? No, we're just talking about the final one, just going out. What I want and what I see is that the parties of the former regime are disturbed, a reminder of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS have found. We didn't find 12, 13% unemployment. We found 26.1% of unemployment. We haven't found one or two firms in restructuring. We found 161. We didn't find any income from these companies, we found a commitment of 800m euros a year to give to these companies. We did not find real wages in the public sector, but unrealistically, because of the elections increased by 68% and pensions increased by 72%, unfounded in economic logic and reality and in economic activity. These are the burdens that this government of the Republic of Serbia received in a dowry, in an amanet, with those of the people with whom you share the same values, as soon as you were on the same parliamentary list. You can't say - we're not together now, we're together now. If you're with someone on the same parliamentary list, it means you're sharing those values. It can't be said - in 2003 it's just mine, it's my powers, and then someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8233	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8234	Mr. Chairman, Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. I'd like to ask you to respond to the word "archicretant." It's amazing that I'm going to side with DS or DOS, because it's really outrageous. We don't know what period you're talking about in 2004 when you say that some archaeologist canceled the flight between Belgrade and New York. You may be talking about those parties and those people with whom you destroyed Slobodan Milosevic in 2000. Why are you talking about your associates like that? I would ask you, regardless of what Mr. Zivkovic is most likely thinking of someone from the DS and that democratic bloc, to give a warning anyway, because at least it's scandalous to talk about people whose list you're on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8235	Thank you. If you've listened before, I've warned Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, just before you asked to close the circle of replicas. You accepted. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Mr Babic asked me to answer him. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. First Vice-President of the Government, Mr. candidate for Minister of Industry, I saw earlier that my fellow farmer, who so strongly opposes, has a beautiful tie. I expected more from my farmmate for three years. I thought staying in nature, clean air, that wisdom also comes with age, but it seems that someone only comes years. He's got a nice smile, not just a pretty tie. I've been in politics a certain way since 1988 and I remember well. This is where the former prime minister, my fellow farmer, wine and kelp specialist, spoke about the results of the first government in 2000. It's a government that I partly supported until he became prime minister. I can testify accordingly to the results of that government. Mr. Sertic, whether or not you want to be, you cannot be a worse minister than it was Vlahovic, but you cannot be richer. Mr. Vlahovic hasn't changed, the fact is, for three years. He was elected to two governments. Mr. Vlahovic has become enormously rich and the people are enormously poor. Mr. Vlahovic, during the term of office and my fellow farmer, who was then prime minister, for a certain time, unfortunately, not my people, but this nation, this country, Mr. Vlahovic at the time, won everything, and the people lost everything. Everything that was social and state, which was ours, became theirs. Let me remind you that all these governments have continuity from 2000 to 2012. The first thing that was done - our banks were liquidated, foreign banks were brought in, foreign trade chains, foreign companies that took profitable companies, brewers, cements, Beopetrol etc., they took it not to buy businesses, but to buy consumers, and that if they stayed in our hands, they would not be competition with their businesses, they did not want to be competition themselves, but they wanted to buy these companies to remove the competition, and to make profit on our market, which was legitimate on their part, but it was not legitimate of ours. I personally participated in raising the Nis tobacco industry, achieving better results, building a new line for the production of cigarettes, but only after a few years of DIN, DIV, all of those factories that brought profits, were sold to foreigners, and all the smokers were sold. Only at the expense of excise duties, these companies paid off, i.e. those investments paid off themselves in a few years. Today, the sale of capital is called investment. I, as some farmer, a colleague of the former prime minister, or colleague by profession, is so little startled that someone is selling capital, and the former prime minister, would have written as an investment, as if it were invested, something new. In fact, it was about the sale of capital in investments in the change of ownership. Nothing big was built, and while I was struggling to build an industrial zone in India, to build the only Serbian cigarette factory, he trusted investors or not, during Sablje's arrest. During Sablje, tenders for DIN, DIV, etc. are also open, so as not to remind what the economy ministers and prime ministers in the government have been doing further. So for these reasons, I canceled obedience, seeing that these things lead to the destruction of our economy, the firing of people, etc. It was the initial chapels that all other governments continued, causing losses of over 500,000 jobs, enormous borrowing. At a time when we were normally in debt, we were losing jobs. People fell out of the business chain and moved on to the expenditure side, or there were social cases. The debt they made and the sale of capital would not have been such a problem if they had made the sale of capital and enormous borrowing a source of debt recovery. But he wasn't made. The diaspora is only a diaspora, and this is what I recommend the future minister to activate our diaspora, which has not occurred to governments by 2012. The diaspora is from 2000 to 2012 according to the National Bank, data from the National Bank of Serbia, and it does not include foreign exchange accounts sent to buses through friends, etc., but only what it went through through the accounts, it put in $50 billion, but at the same time the masters of the country's transition amounted to 51 billion, so they completely canceled what our diaspora put in. The government's results are also Sartid, where the state has taken over a billion debts, and Sartid has been sold for 20m dollars as I recall. He worked until it paid off, and later the state had to take over the Sartid again, and with full law he now takes care of those workers who are not taken care of that kind of privatisation. That's what I have to say about this government. Also, I have to tell the future Department of Economy that I have nothing against the "Fiats". The Fiata have invested hundreds, hundreds of millions of euros in previous governments, but I have to say that we have to take care of agriculture, that what farmers produce gives workers in factories to process, to produce energy for this type of production, and that in this way we export the goods to the market, and that we try to take care of the existence of this population that is increasingly poor, to provide them with the existence, and to service all the debts that occurred in the period until 2012. So, in the period when jobs were lost, despite the borrowings. Now the country needs to be debt-debted, the people to feed, to put on shoes, to warm up, to educate people without an economy that was meant to be created as the main source of debt at the time of borrowing. I'll set an example. Three villages in Srem. It's the Martins, Kuzmin and Lazarac, and there are people living in that territory. Before the so-called. The large governments, whose representatives here provided most of these governments, are proud of their work. Before them, 200,000 pigs produced three villages. It was processed here in Mitros, which left our country 60m euros a year. Today, from the entire "Fiyat", which I have nothing against, this country is barely left with 20m euros. That's some of their greatest results. "Fiat" participates heavily in the country's exports and foreign exchange revenues, but also "Fiat" imports a lot, so that what remains for us is net earnings, etc., where the previous generation of authorities have agreed to pay taxes and contributions to labour, not to pay communals etc., but I still appreciate their investment, and I believe that in the processing industry, the chances of this country, that what farmers make in factories, to produce energy for it. I think we have a chance at this, since I mentioned "Mitros". Mitros used to process two thousand pieces of pig every day and bring 600,000 euros a day, with no outflows, which was an annual factory in Srem with several villages around, with a meeting and masculine region, that could bring 150-200m euros of social product to this country, and these were mainly canned, exported ham, etc. The arrival of the so-called so-called The government of general national ruin, as I call it from 2000 to 2012, which is also my colleague's winemaker Kalemar, is all ruined, so now we have empty halls, workers without work, hungry people, people who dream a piece of bread. Today, most of us represent empty pockets, misery, despair and poverty, while the masters of transition, who have ruined everything, complain to us here. I wish my colleague were there and I wanted to ask him what it was like to be the financial director of our party, three euros, a sugar cane, three euros, a sugar cane. I guess that's the fair privatisation that's been done. I guess it's those big investments. By the way, it is also the godfather of a party at the time of the DOS from 2000 to 2003. Here we have heard the brittle discussions, such criticisms about the Union University, a man whose colleague is a senior official of the party, as he himself said, used the term, "magastrated" and doctored at the Union University of Mladenov. I guess that part of the doctorate, as he put it, counts for the fair part, and everything else counts for the unfair part. So one university...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8237	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8238	I'm in the dark. The candidate graduated from law school. It has challenged the opposition, and it does not dispute its candidate who has "magastrated there". I'm talking about double standards and I'm talking about what they were talking about. The top critic was a bass player in a group called "Generations Without Future". So until 27 years old, his music career was a musician trying. He resented me for Bora Corba, for quoting him. So now he's become a big fan of economy and finance. At the age of 27, he was assigned to diplomacy. At such a mature age, he became a diplomat, not anywhere, but in Washington, at the most important embassy. We can assume what happened there, how well-educated he is to give us lessons here. Since he was a bass player and was in "Generations Without Future", his policy, his government, has left many generations without a future. He probably remembered the name of the group. The Minister of Economy, who has great responsibility, because he also represents the Prime Minister, who proposed him here, should not do what they did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8239	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic. So, if you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8240	Please let me finish. ... If you want to succeed, the old saying written by Dostoevsky says – if you go down the road and you stop at every dog that barks at you with stones, you'll never get to the finish line. To get to the finish line, evil must be beaten with good and replaced with better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8241	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8242	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable First Vice President of the Government, the Honored Guests, I believe that the members of 106 and 109 have just been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll explain. Article 106 states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Today we are discussing the election of a member of the government, a candidate for the economy of Mr Sertic. Mr. Risticevic just spoke. Mr. Risticevic spoke in his speech about Mr. Zivkovic's beautiful tie color, clean air. Mr. Risticevic was talking about music and wine. Dear Chairman, you did warn Mr. Risticevic that he should talk about the agenda point, but he continued to talk about something that was not the point of the agenda. It was your obligation to give notice to a MP who disobeyed you on the basis of article 109. I can understand your position, too, that you recognize that Mr. Risticevic is a poet, so that these terms are important, music, wine, beautiful colors, air etc., and here's why I want to give you this one attention, the poet says – in the Greek poet, and in the parentheses he says - not uncommonly in ironic terms. I understand all that, but in the Assembly, when we have the agenda point, we have to stick to the order and ask you to either warn Mr. Risticevic or to make a statement in the voting day about whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure was done earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8243	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You witnessed that I had warned the previous speaker. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. The Master of Alexander Jerkov answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8244	I thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for the same applies to Mr. Ristic's exposure, but another member of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, which prohibits MPs from presenting facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Where the head of the DS parliamentary group played in his youth or what activities he had absolutely no interest in the National Assembly, for the election of Minister Sertic. It also belongs to the domain of those things that Mr Risticevic was talking about, which could also be taken under the violation of that point of the Rules of Procedure that speak of the People's MP having to talk about what the subject of the agenda is, and that someone from the SNS is talking about any education. After all those things that happened to the members of the SNS so much... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8245	Mrs. Jerkov, I'll interrupt. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8246	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am next on the list of speakers I will not take into consideration what Mr. Risticevic is, it is true that he tried very poetically to say something – what Lazar Kostic would say to every disaster. It's back to the subject. Mr Dacic is very nice of you today in parliament to introduce Mr Sertic, but I don't think it's your job today, nor do I think it's your responsibility today, or is it to the extent that you decided to be Mr Sertic's candidate. You should say, we all know that the future minister of the economy is the sole personal decision of Alexander Vukic. I'm supposed to ask today where the prime minister is today. Too many international obligations when it is necessary to stand before MPs and publicly take responsibility for Mr Sertic's future moves and the Ministry of Economy. Fourth or fifth, we no longer know the minister of economy in governments where even the declarative economy was a difficult point in exposés. It is no longer an exception, it becomes a rule, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Agriculture, the third, fourth, fifth ministers for just two years in resolutions to carry reform processes in Serbia. Then with new ministers over and over again, you hide all those incompetences and mistakes from previous ministers all over again. Finally, after all these major reform moves, the situation in Serbia is that public debt, debt, budget deficits are growing, and propaganda is also rising, citizens' standards are falling, employment is falling, budget, tax revenues are falling. When you come to parliament next time as Minister, the only thing we can tell you is that we know that you are new and that you are not responsible for the situation in your portfolio. That's why today the prime minister should also be in the Assembly, that if six months from now, because of your poor work, we know as opposition and citizens to whom to make an account. Also, I think that the government, in this case Alexander Vukic and Ivica Dacic, I think you are mistaken in the way you represent Mr Sertic. Personally, I am not an MP who has the right to bring politics down to personal matters, to speak of names even though it is European practice. I prefer to discuss politics, however, the way you represent Mr Sertic also raises some questions. It's true, in the biography we see that you're an experienced businessman and then we ask the question in which companies you've acquired that experience, how many employees they hire, how these companies do business. You gave us a very clever explanation of your education and I believe that the answers to these questions will help us and the public round the complete picture in which we place the complete economy of Serbia. I think it was better that you said – yes, Mr Sertic is a political member of SNS and Alexander Vukic, although we know that the SNS did not ask much in this case, but the minister is a political function and such representation is quite legitimate. However, let us return to the policy of the Ministry of Economy, the future and the present. We are interested in answering certain questions that the MPs asked today. This shows the interest of MPs and the public. It's true that you can't answer them today, but I believe you'll answer another day, because these are the questions we're going to ask you from day to day until we get answers. We're looking for an explanation of how many company workers in restructuring can count on severances? How will you ensure that these workers do not fall to social policies after the severances are spent? How much is all this going to cost and from what means do you intend to pay? Are you worried that Serbia has entered the recession again? The GDP decline in the first two quarters is about 1%. What concrete measures do you think you're going to start an economy with reduced salaries and pensions and new around 60,000 redundancies? Is there a government projection of how many workers in production will lose their jobs after the pay cut by 10, 15, maybe even 20%? There will inevitably be a drop in demand for goods of broad consumption. The drop in demand will produce a drop in production, a drop in production will produce a surplus of employment. Does the government have a projection of how many workers will be jobless after the cuts in wages and pensions? How do you intend to increase foreign and direct investments, knowing that they are at a record low? In the first seven months, it's 300 million. For example, in 2011, they amounted to over two billion. Do you intend to publish the entire contract with Ethyhad, knowing that the prime minister has published only part of the contract? What is most interesting to both the public and us, we are interested in the answers to the privatisation of 502 companies. My personal special attention has been drawn to the privatization of the spa, as I come from Sokobanja. Not only to me, but also to the public who understands the potential of the development of spas, the development of tourism, which in this process sees a serious chance, all except the Government, which does not show commitment, but sends very contradictory messages to investors. It is true that the development of tourism in this form has come to the wall and that without private capital there is no further development of tourism. When you do a parallel analysis with countries in the environment, you'll see that's also the case. The messages the government is sending, say the director of the Privatisation Agency, that we are going to privatise the spas, rehabilitation centres and health centres. The second message is we will not privatise those spas and special hospitals that are slow, and seven out of 14 bathrooms are in a particular dispute with the PIO property fund. Then the third message is that there is no privatisation and that we just want to check market and investor interest. How do you think you get any interest if you send a message that we won't privatise the spas and special hospitals that are slow? What are these messages being sent? These aren't messages that can get results. When a change in the structure of the property of the spa was made in Slovenia, the whole country stood on its feet, not the government, but the whole state. Today, those municipalities that have spas, wellness centres, health centres are Slovenia's most developed spas. Their tourism participates with over 13% of GDP. In Serbia, barely 1.8% and potentials are even higher. The Czech Republic has made a major transitional policy of privatising spas. Today, they are the most developed in Europe, and we want to privatise our spas under the 1992 Banjama Act. I didn't see the interest of the resolute minister, Minister Ljajic, that he visited the spas in privatisation, I didn't see Mr. Loncar, the health minister, that he visited special hospitals to see what conditions they are doing today. Why is the growing number of workers who receive alert status as a protection measure against leadership? What are these messages, and how will it affect the choice of investors or the search for strategic partners? Mild indifference, privatization for privatisation, this great process is too unserious to begin to make me think it's going to end differently. Those are questions, Mr. Sertice, which we will ask from day to day, until we get answers. Because of us, because of the public, because of half a million people living in municipalities, in spas, in the cities and municipalities that have spas, and we're going to ask these questions for the public and because of everything that this process has started, very, very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8247	I thank Mr. Nikolic. The word is a folk letter from Dusica Stojkovic, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8248	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Sertic, dear fellow MPs, has so far been in Serbia without political will to bring order to Serbia's economy. Serbia's economy remained in prison while former ministers, such as caravans, were changing. A general impression which is imposed that it has been done in a orderly manner and without reform procedures. I wonder who this situation in the economy corresponded to, tycoons, businessmen close to certain political parties, bankruptcy managers, company directors in restructuring? I am sure that was at least appropriate for workers in Serbia, or the country itself. During that time, the state recorded losses, not only in the budget, but in devastating trends when it comes to economic competitiveness and globally. Our country is based on the world's economic forum on the 101st place of 148 countries, when it comes to business competitiveness. I would like to remind the MPs that between 2005 and 2012, more than 400,000 workers were out of work. This government has shown that it is fighting for every job, so that the future minister does not wait for any easy tasks. The burning problems facing the minister are the following: ending and restructuring of privatisation, namely 156 enterprises in restructuring that have close to 56,000 employees, costing the state at an annual level of about 750m euros, then, the next problem that will be facing the new minister is also solving public enterprises' problems. The losses recorded by public enterprises are enormous. They amount to more than 600m euros, and out of 730 such companies, the total number of companies there are, 510 companies in their work are doing a minus. Discussing the grey economy is also a burning problem that will await the new economy minister. The grey economy of each Serbian population costs one average salary at an annual level, totaling about three billion euros. Improving the business environment is also one of the topics. What does that mean? It involves working to reduce the cost and risk of business in Serbia, cutting bureaucratic procedures. The Republic of Serbia, and I have had the opportunity to co-operate a lot with foreigners, is known, unfortunately, for a negative trend, i.e. By bureaucratic barriers, when it comes to business. The bureaucratic procedures for Serbia's economy cost 1.35 billion euros annually or about 4.2% of GDP. Only keeping the employer's business books in Serbia costs 193m euros annually. The next question being raised – what does Mr Sertic qualify as future Minister of Economy? What makes him better than the other candidates? Mr. Sertic comes from the economy, and he himself has managed more companies for many years. He wasn't the politician at the head of the Chamber of Commerce, the kind of candidates we've had so far, but he was the manager, which is evident from his opening of the chamber, both internally and internationally. The recognition by professional associations in the world, we have already been able to hear from our colleagues from SNS, Mr Babić, is the winner of a series of awards and awards for his work, the winner of the Najjjpljanin Award for 2013, by his colleagues the president of the Chamber of Commerce has been named the best manager in Southeast and Central Europe for the period from 2013 to 2014. He was elected member of the board of directors of the European Chamber and member of the Council of the Serbian and German Forum. What I would personally say if he specifically qualified him, I had the opportunity to work with him personally, it's in a business world that can be called the executive director. It's a person who gets a job, successfully executes it to the end, and you, as a taskmaster, can sleep peacefully. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, following Sertic's arrival, has embarked on a major investment offensive in the world. The country and abroad have so far been organised by the Chamber of Commerce, more than a thousand events dedicated to improving the business environment, increasing Serbia's competitiveness and promoting Serbia as an investment destination. The investment and export opportunities of the Serbian economy were presented in more than a hundred international conferences, forums and bilateral meetings in the country and abroad. I'll just remind you of some of them. The October 2013 Serbian Investment Conference in Moscow presented 74 concrete projects of the Serbian economy. These are not only Serbian economy projects, but also state institutions and authorities of local self-government. The new model for presenting the Serbian economy's investment potential was realized for the first time. In addition to the investment forum, held in Moscow, one was in India and the United Arab Emirates. A base of investment projects and locations has been launched. This is what future domestic and foreign investors are really interested in, which are maps of locations where new small and medium-sized enterprises can be opened. What has also succeeded at the head of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, it is that it has launched a new service centre. It is about a Business Information Service that allows Serbian businessmen to receive all useful information within 48 hours when it comes to their business. In this way, Serbia's business environment has been greatly improved. Sam organised and was a member of several working groups outside the Serbian Chamber of Commerce when it comes to legal initiatives. He participated in amendments, making proposals and suggestions to the Labour Act, the Law on Banking, the Law on Privatisation that passed this assembly procedure, but also on the Law on Planning and Construction. He organized public debates, gave his suggestions and opinions. It is a great pleasure and I would like to point out once again that I had the opportunity to get to know Mr Sertic through concrete business activities. He cuts where he needs to, makes quick decisions, never gives up. Finally, to recapture, solve the problem of state-run losers, curb the grey economy, create a better environment for investment and business of entrepreneurs are just some of the burning problems facing the new economy minister, Mr Sertic, immediately after taking office. In order to successfully complete the reforms that his predecessors have done, they seem foolishly able to look at in full, he must be much more active in the guide. He will also have to deal with the problems of poor governance of public companies that record losses. Of course, this cannot be resolved without co-operation with other supervisory and resolution ministries. Also, when it comes to curbing the grey economy, co-operation of the Ministry of Economy with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance is necessary. In the end, I am sure, or I am convinced that SNS MPs will vote for Mr Sertic, but I would like to take this opportunity to invite my colleagues from the opposition to support Mr Sertic as the new Minister of Economy. I am convinced that he will quickly, with his efficiency and his way of working, prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8249	I thank Mrs Stojkovic. The People's Messenger, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger, Aleksandar Jovicic, be prepared. Here you go, Dr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Dacic, the honored guests, with all the goodwill and gratitude of my colleague Stojkovic, I will not be able to vote today for this proposal to be elected Minister of Economy in our Government and for this position I offer three groups of arguments. I think these arguments are very strong and very sufficient for counterpart Stojkovic to consider voting against the proposal that Mr Sertic be elected today as minister. First of all, this government, gentlemen, has, in my court, unjustly poor results, especially in a field where Mr Sertic is here today running for minister. Here, just a few facts and data, first of all, GDP. According to an announcement by the governor of the NBS, who is a SNS official, however, in the status of the party's stay, I understand, it announced a 0.5% GDP decline by the end of this year. That's what Jorgenka Tabakovic says. The second thing, Serbia's daily debt in 2014 is three and a half million euros. The Serbian government has us in charge of an additional three and a half million euros today. Third, unemployment is huge, and the worst among young people is among the population of young people. More pay cuts are announced in Serbia, pension cuts are now announced, secret contracts remain. There's one more thing that I think is important. There is one instability in this Serbian government. When we mention that there were several finance ministers, the economy, it means that instability is at stake when we talk about this government. Minister Dacic, for example, instead of appearing in this Assembly with a proposal for a new foreign policy strategy for Serbia, so that we discuss the portfolio he manages, he appears once a month, as the practice is now, to defend either the candidate for the finance minister, as it was a month ago, or now the candidate for the economy minister and, most interestingly, defends them with silence. It's a very interesting way. I wonder if it will last until the end of this debate today. It is a special question to me now, what is it, I am sorry that Mr Sertic is unable to discuss, and that is why I am speaking to Mr Dacic, but I find it very interesting to find out what motivated Mr Sertic to accept the candidacy and the possibility of becoming a minister of the economy in such a bad government? We, of course, won, that's where I come in for another group of arguments, Mr. Sertic's biography. Mr Dacic, the biography of Mr Sertic, sent to the Serbian Parliament by Aleksandar Vukic, is a very modest, thin biography, if we judge on this basis. I believe there must be some more information about Mr Sertic, but if we judge from what has arrived, we conclude that the professional biography of Mr Sertic begins in 2013, when he was elected president of the Chamber of Commerce, of course as a party figure, and already in 2014 he becomes minister. In my court, it's one sign of the present partocrat, not of the direction towards reform. I leave the possibility that there are a lot of other information from Mr. Sertic's biography, but based on what's come to our assembly, I can judge, and I can only judge it like this. The third thing, gentlemen, this government is, I think this may be the most important point, in two years it has managed to achieve and what it has failed Boris Tadic, who we fought in the elections in 2012. All the structures of society in Serbia have been destroyed. The middle layer that I think Mr. Dacic is important to Mr. Sertic is completely exhausted. The fields of civil society barely survive, the media and journalists are humiliated, everything is broken, honored gentlemen, except for the ruling tycoon class. Mr Babic says in this assembly today – we have torn up the weeds in the fight against corruption, and be careful, imagine this picture, Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic was made available to Milan Beko, whom Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic claimed to be the largest Serbian tycoon and, more interestingly, Mr Beko is making available to Mr Vukic from a hotel he owns. Another man Mr. Vukic described as a tycoon is Mr. Miroslav Miskovic. I conclude that this government has established a system of tycoon class rule and I in this assembly have to fight it. I think I have strong and sufficient arguments for our position. Mr. Dacic's silence will be like accepting our arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8251	Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group came forward. Prior to that, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8252	I'm glad you brought me up in this debate. I didn't come here to defend anyone. I've come to explain a proposal for a new Minister of Economy and I don't think I have any reason to defend anyone from any criticism anyone here is going to make. I don't think there's any reason for me to defend him for anything. On the other hand, you saw at the beginning of this debate that I just didn't have anyone to say goodbye to. Now what? How many of you are there? There are three of you here from the opposition. And I can devote half an hour to each and every one of them by the end of the debate. Here are some reasons for leaving this session that are absolutely absolutely, I would say, a way to prove to be an opposition approach, and essentially, sometimes, since I did the same thing while I was in power, sometimes so is the ruling party. You come out of the congregation, you don't discuss it, the assembly lasts shorter, etc. I haven't done it since yesterday. I've done it for 20 years. Why didn't they object when it was with Vujovic? Why didn't anyone read the laws and everything? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not just the foreign minister, I'm the first Deputy Prime Minister to replace the Prime Minister by law when he's prevented from doing his duty. The only thing he can't replace the Prime Minister with is the proposal of new members of the government. I didn't even do it in the radio. I didn't propose to the new one as a member of the government. Now that the Prime Minister has appointed me to replace him at this session, I will replace him, and I will also replace him at all other sessions where they cannot be present. So I didn't come here as foreign minister, and otherwise I agree with you to discuss foreign policy as well. Otherwise I remember here in this home, since I've been here for many years, I think we've only discussed the concept of foreign policy once in the history of this home, then Svilanovic was a minister. It was at the level of the SRJ at the time. I spoke to the chairman of the Committee, miss or ma'am, I don't know, Djurovic, and I prepared her a report in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of our ministry, three months. I hope that he will be discussed at the Committee's session, but I agree with you that we should also discuss the concept of foreign policy, if necessary, to discuss all other issues that can be discussed here without any problems. Now I don't want to get into all the polemics here, whether anyone likes the minister, a proposal for the minister or not, but you know how, rarely who will get the absolute votes of all here who are present, and Mr Sertic is on his way to get it because there is none of those who are against it. So I congratulate you on getting a significant number, but in advance I can say a significant number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8253	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I think it is clear to the citizens of Serbia that now the Prime Minister has very important state obligations and has authorised the first Deputy Prime Minister to explain the proposal he sent to the assembly. The word has been given by MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8254	I'll try these two minutes per set to answer. First set, that some borrowing and how much this government owes. You know, Mr. Pavicevic, you're responsible for this borrowing. You supported the list and allowed it to cross the census because together you have that 6.09% so I don't know who's there above the censorship who's below the censorship, but you supported that list and allowed it to cross the censorship. It's the same list that increased public sector wages by 68%. The same list that increased pensions 72% even though there is no real basis for economic growth. You've accepted those values. Because of these things, because of these burdens, because of the 161 firms in restructuring that your comrades on the same list that you supported, you allowed them to cross the censorship. You supported that list. They're responsible for that. You can't say, they're from another party. No, you're on the same list, you share the same values. As for these biographys of romance, like this or like that, thin or slightly thicker, I'm sure Sacha Dragina's biography is much thicker or Mr. Bubal, but the indictment is this big, and the same are the same people you supported, being on the DS list. You can say it now -- no, it's some other guys. No, you helped them cross the census. As for the third set of questions, so if you'll excuse me, please, the same guys with whom you shared the same values and allowed them to cross the censorship were coming to Miskovic and Beko, to come to the canoes to say what laws to bring – where do you have interest, and what are you going to buy now? From Beka, the government of the Republic of Serbia has charged eight million hidden taxes. We don't make deals, we charge taxes. Who has a problem with the police, with investigative authorities, and it seems to me that at the time you and those people you supported to cross the censorship, these people, both Beko and Miskovic, were respected members of both society and government and made the governments and made legal solutions that suit them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8255	Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8256	At this time they go where the justice system sends them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8257	National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8258	And then a replica to Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8259	You can't get a replica on Mr. Dacic. You can only get a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8260	Okay. Article 108 has been injured. You are required to take care of order in the session of the National Assembly. Mr. Babic has now done something that he often has objections and reactions to. He spoke directly to another MP, or to me. Otherwise, I don't have a problem with that, but since we need to stick to this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, yours was an obligation, Mr. Chairman, to warn Mr. Babic that he himself too adheres to the Rules of Procedure. Another old man you could tell him within that warning, which is that when the changes took place in 2000 and when the government of Serbia formed Zoran Djindjic, this Djindjic did not go from the assembly to the assembly, from the city to the city in Serbia and constantly complained that someone else was responsible for the debts, for this, for what, but, the Honored Chairman, I ask you to pass it on to Mr Babić, the man began to work and the results of that government were visible, and I see the results of that government being challenged by the SNS MPs, unlike the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, of whom I could not hear in the last year, two days, no critical word about the government's actions. Please, gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, that there is some synchronization here in performances, in action, and especially when it is necessary here to contribute to the fact that in this country all its citizens have conditions that they can live well. All our discussions are about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8261	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You've abused the Rules of Procedure. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8262	Article 107. I don't know when they're gonna stop talking about and trying to get political points on one bad, hard thing that's gonna stay in our society forever and ever, for the rest of our lives and for history, and that's the murder of the prime minister in 2003. How long do you think you're exploiting that? How long do you think you're taking political points at it? How long do you think you're taking on something that someone else did, and that someone else isn't with us anymore? I'm sorry that something like this happened, even though I never supported that policy. Don't let me, who never supported that policy, defend him from you who were here, with that man's skirts. Don't exploit such things. It's really ugly, it's inappropriate, it's bad. On the other hand, this Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, in the first 100 days of the government, and every government in the modern history of parliamentaryism in Serbia has said -- give us 100 days to meet the cabinets, meet the secretaries, meet the official cars, don't attack us, give us time to get acquainted with the work that has been entrusted to us, but the Government of Alexander Vukic said in 100 days that he would do so and proudly come to this Parliament and say, "Here's what we did, this is the Government of the Programme, this is the Government of Reform, this is the Government of Goals, and that's what we're going to achieve because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8263	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. What member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8264	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister Dacic, the Honorable Chairman, dear guests, I think they are now injured. 104 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8265	You've already advertised article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8266	No, I only advertised article 106, and then I said 109 in my speech, but I didn't advertise. Therefore, please allow me to complete my two-minute exposure. Dear Chairman, Mr Babic had just used a coin that I believe was absolutely inappropriate in this National Assembly. He, acting according to the Rules of Procedure on what I said, announced that I serve here the exploitation of a dead man, former Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8267	I'm not going to let anyone talk in this high house like this talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8268	Mr. Chairman, that's what Mr. Babic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8269	The word is Alexander Jovicic, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8270	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, First Deputy Prime Minister and Future Minister, at the very beginning, I would like to congratulate you on your courage to accept the offer to become Minister of Industry in the circumstances that are really difficult for our country. I've known you for many years, and I think you're a decent and honest man, a man who will try to change the situation in our economy, along with the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. But it won't be easy. For the sake of truth, I would also like to remind you, future ministers, as well as the MPs, and in the final instance and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it is not easy to be a minister when it comes to your legacy since 2008, to take this period only until 2012 on the basis of corruption, 300 schools and 500 km of highways were eaten every year. Please, future minister, that unemployment in Serbia is getting smaller, that we no longer have the situation as it was in 2008, that unemployment from 14% jumped to 25.5% and has been the biggest unemployment since 1998, since statistics were ever conducted. Also, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia since 2008, which amounted to 8.75 billion euros, has increased to more than 14.5 billion euros in just four years, which absolutely captured our GDP. I'm telling you all this because in 2008, someone was saying that, as the prime minister said in 2008, in his exposé, unemployment would decrease to 11%. At the end of the term, we received 25.5% unemployment. I ask you to be a responsible man and never again take advantage of the world's, economic or any other crisis to say that it will be a chance for Serbia and for our economy, misleading citizens, offering them colorful lies, promising a better life based on some crisis that has affected the whole world. That's irresponsible. I don't expect that from you. Of course, I don't expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because Aleksandar Vukic is a responsible man, which gives me the right to think that you too will be responsible as soon as you are on his team. If we are talking about the private sector, please, future ministers, never again come into a situation where someone like this was between 2009 and 2011, parafiscal intrusions towards businesses raise 22%, and parafiscal intrusions by the Republic towards local self-government, which is the basis of our economy and decentralisation, raise 66%, as was the case. Also, in 2008, the prime minister from one party, which is now the opposition party, told us that our GDP growth will be 7% a year, but you are a man of profession, and you know that Germany has no such increase in GDP, there is no country in the environment, nor in the EU. China alone is reaching that rise in GDP, but it's been hard on her lately, too. What do I mean? You will be consistent, give goals and frameworks that you can meet, and the citizens will know that they value, and our support at any moment you will have. As far as borrowing or debt is concerned, I ask you never again to make a proposal to raise wages and pensions without an economic perspective and the foundation that we have earned, and then we have shared it with the citizens, that you never again raise your loans from 8% to 11% of the interest rate, because in this way you will not do anything good for the country. I am absolutely sure that you will continue politics, foreign policy and policy if we have to be in charge, which is carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to take loans with the most favourable interest rates so that we do not put additional burden on our budget. Mr. Sertice, I've heard a lot of accusations today. I'm sorry you can't say something, because I'm convinced you'd know how to answer. Five hundred failed privatisations in our country, 160 companies almost nobody wants. Those who accuse you today, and have not yet been chosen, have managed to sell out in this country everything worth it, everything that was liquid, everything that could be taken out of it, any money, the euro, and carried out outside. You have been left with what is ruined, outdated, devastationed, something that has no perspective, and therefore your role will be far more responsible than any predecessors who have destroyed our economy successfully and now want you, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to solve what they have ruined all 12 years ago. It's hypocritical. But I can see from you that you're not afraid of the challenge and that what they're saying and you know it, and they know that they have no arguments and that you're going to fight to change that situation. Since 2013 in the Republic of Serbia, things have been getting better. That it's ideal - it's not. That it can do better, it can go faster – it always can, but our country's GDP has increased by 2.4%. In the region, if we look at an increase in GDP, it was about 1.5%, which gives Serbia the right to start from a dead spot, the point where it has lived for many years, it has encumbered crime and corruption, but at last this situation has changed. In order to change that, we must change our consciousness in the final instance, but I think that the citizens of Serbia have recognised the energy, responsibility, determination and above all the respect of our prime minister and that we will all behave accordingly. A good practice of the government's business, although certain MPs are criticising it here, is a contract with Ethyhad, a company that we have formed "Er Serbia". It's a company that hired 300 new people, created 300 new jobs, 83% increased its revenues, restored its fleet, and that's a good example. Icarbus, Mercedes, is a good example. Look, Mr Sertic, who gives you a lecture on Icarbus and Mercedes, that party that bought foreign buses for 65m euros of expensive loans, destroying our economy, leaving a Serbian worker without a job for personal interest. That policy is over. The Icarbus will most likely deliver 100 new buses to the City of Belgrade. The "Ikarbus" has already, together with Mercedes, become recognizable in the region and it is our strategic chance to restore our economy, modernise, employ people and show that our economy and the Serbian worker are our first priority. Also, unemployment was reduced by 1% in the previous period. Someone will say it's not a world miracle. No, but unlike those who have increased unemployment by 1% each month, employment has now increased by 1%, which gives us the right to hope that by the end of this term we will reduce unemployment below that 18%, which is our goal. Reform amendments to the law have been passed, and I am honored to have been involved in the adoption of such laws, the Law on Labour, Privatisation, bankruptcy. I'm particularly special on the Tax Liberation Act, which you, Mr. Sertić, must promote in the best possible way, and we will help you with that, which is that every employee has a tax refund. From one to nine employees 65% of the tax returns, from nine to 99 – 70% and over 100 employees, you get 75% of the tax back. It's a great opportunity and we already have some results. One more thing, tax control, as a young man, I go out to town, drink a drink or have lunch, and I really feel bad when someone gives me an estimate instead of a fiscal bill. Why? Because he cheated on the state, and he cheated on me too, because 2.5 billion euros in Serbia loses annually on unpaid taxes, or VAT. Then the question arises – where are the pensions, where are the salaries, where are the roads, where are the schools? Well, there in the pockets of those who don't respect the state, and the state may have provided them in the past and such expensive places in good places, at extremely good prices for us citizens. Mr. Sertic, Serbia has hope for another reason. If we look at countries in the region and how much responsibility it is, I will only give you some examples, which gives us the right to be convinced that Serbia will line up those countries that have shown what economic productivity means, first of all I mean Poland, but when we talk about duty, the most in charge – Greece 175% of GDP, Italy 132% of GDP, Portugal 129% of GDP, Ireland 123%, Serbia 63% at the moment. Our idea, our goal, the goal of all of you and all of us is to reduce our duty in the years to come. I'm sure you'll make it happen. In the final instance, your task will be to invest in a healthy economy, to wish you happiness on that path, to a healthy economy, to an economy that is still on its feet and that can make the extra value we need. Also, your big task will be how to find funds for those companies that are no longer liquid and that have no possibility of being in debt. It will be a thorny, difficult road for the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, but Mr Sertic, know one thing, you are not alone in all this. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia will support you, the MPs will support you. We're all with you. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8271	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8272	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Sertic, here I am saying, we are all with you, and we would all like you to achieve success and to finally have the Serbian economy, which is now under wraps because it has obviously been badly driven over the past two years, finally come out of the crisis and to stand on healthy feet. The very fact that you're the fourth economy minister shows that this government obviously doesn't have a course and that it doesn't know how to behave in one of the most sensitive parts of our society and our country, which is exactly the economy. In order to know where we are, we need to know where we're going from, and the fact is that for two years now, this poor government has overestimated the citizens of Serbia, that in 2012, according to the Public Debt Administration, we had a debt of around 15 billion and 840m euros. Today, that debt is over 22 billion. In two years, about seven billion euros, public debt has increased in Serbia, and that would not be such a problem if our economy was not collapsed. The question arises: who managed to break the laws of physics about matter being indestructible and how is it possible that seven billion euros was pumped into Serbia without there being no project that was launched, which is being implemented and there is no company that has practically raised its level of activity and which today has more profit and gain than before 2012? At the same time, your colleagues will be remembered as people who have talked a lot and have made a little real. At the same time, your colleagues will be remembered as people who have supported the impositions right now. Serbia has received the biggest taxes in its history in the last two years. As you know, value added tax increased by 11%, now 20% total. The profit tax has increased as much as 50%. All of this would have been justified if the budget gap or deficit were smaller. Unfortunately, the budget deficit is growing and higher, which suggests, despite the huge burdens the state imposes on Serbian citizens, apparently poor government leadership. Bad government can't get out of the crisis. The only way to get out of the crisis is to just increase economic activity, primarily through foreign investment, and that's where we're in big trouble. Unfortunately, in the last two years, Serbia has lost a large share of the funds that normally came through foreign investments in 2012, 2013 and 2014 in the sum of around a billion and 250 million foreign investments. In 2011, when Mr. Ivica Dacic was also the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, we had 1.8 billion euros in foreign investment at the time. That year was bad for us, but three times better than this year that's after us. What Mr Stefanovic said when he said that you have our respect for your courage, it really stands, but we suspect that you as an only child in the government can run anything because, as far as I know, the budget rebalance is already being prepared. If you do not participate as Minister of Industry, you will practically sit in the chair, but one where you will not have the opportunity to manage the system. The data on industrial production in Serbia are devastating. What is a fact, it is only thanks to "Fiita" Serbia today has an increase in industrial production. In what's most important to us, probably, which is, say, the construction industry. In this year, 27.8% less than last year. Last year, about 30% less than last year. We're sinking slowly but surely. For the first time in our country's history, we have some buildings that the state is building, called smelly buildings, and that's something you're going to have to deal with the way your colleagues present to us so that you can do it. Serbia is today with Cyprus and Croatia, as far as I know, the only country in recession. For two times three months, two quarters, our economy has been down. The projected drop is about 1%. That fall will probably be bigger. Unless stability is made, above all, politically, if you do not have the strength to amend the laws necessary for foreign investors to really come into the country, unless you are aware that they will not come, if there is a possibility that anyone is behind their backs negotiating direct business, as is done with our Arab partners, without transparent procedures, no one will invest in Serbia, and those investments that are being promised for two years are still at the level of the model and they will not initiate objections in a way that you as minister tomorrow say you were a serious minister with the result. I'll also tell you that, unfortunately, the real pension in Serbia last year was down by 3.5%. This year, it is down by almost 1%, and pensioners spend 70% of their pensions precisely on domestic production products. Why am I saying this? Because the bad government you're going to be in is planning to cut pensions and pay. The impact that this will have on the budget of all Serbian citizens, who receive pensions and who receive salaries in the public sector, is certainly disastrous, but on the other hand, they are just the buyers of those products made by our domestic economy and our domestic industry. If you're based only on imports, I'm afraid it's going to break their external trade balance that's very bad now. If you allow it, and vote for such a reduction in pensions and wages, I think you'll put yourself, let me say, a political noose around your neck and put yourself in a position to keep these very enterprises, which you need to worry about, in a situation that has even greater losses and not to be competitive on the market. I intended to read a large number of data because there is obviously a need for the public, from our counterparts on the other hand, who support the bad government, to disabling themselves, saying that Serbia is in debt today to pay for old loans, that Serbia is today paying back what was once bad. But what is the fact that today in Serbia there is no segment of state or society that is in better shape than two years ago. This will tell you colleague Dacic, who was in the same place two years ago, as deputy prime minister, with much better results than today. This will tell you anyone who deals with the economy for a certain time and who today has problems with the placement of their goods, but also problems with the help of the state, because there is obviously no adequate help and there is one general responsibility for people who deal with the economy and who are brought to the pillar of shame very often because they do not give political support to those who run this government. Mr. Sertice, I'm not going to attempt to disavow you personally. I don't think that would be correct. I don't personally care what company you ran, whether they were in bankruptcy, whether they were at a loss or not. You are the man who will get a chance to lead today, for me personally, in addition to finance, the most important sector in Serbia. The most important is that this sector should support us who are here and all the state bodies. Please, as someone who will be in charge of providing income, and not to cut spending, tell us, finally, when you sit in that position, how many people are working in the public sector, how many people are on the budget, and how many people are self-income and ensure that the budget is filled, because it is a subject that is often being abused in Serbia, and which apparently makes the public happy by saying that in some past period, an extremely large number of people have been employed in the public sector, and I don't think that's true. What's interesting, I'm saying as someone who needs to deal with incomes that are then paid for, is that something incredible happened in this government. There is a decision on banned employment in the public sector, and we have an increase in expenditure in 2013 and in 2014, and this increase in expenditure precisely in the public sector profit work by 4.8%. So, you don't hire new people, people retire, expenditures are almost 5% higher, but earlier when people have been employed, but now. It's a very important indicator. I think you should also tell the government that the economy cannot support new employment, because this government violates the laws and rules itself, by hiring people and increasing employment costs. On the other hand, I think you need to respect the particulars of our economy, as someone who's engaged in defense and someone who's been reading the defense industry, I'm going to tell you that she's in the middle of a collapse, too, so don't let that industry that was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8273	Time. You've got 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8274	How many seconds have you taken from me now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8275	You'll get it. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8276	When I get to the edge of time, then tell me. Don't interrupt me in the middle of a sentence, because it's not polite, and it's not right. I'm distracting you to pay attention to the defence industry companies that were destroyed during the war. It's never been invested in them. They're coming in. They have a problem with paying taxes, it is not disputed, but unlike some mines, which are constantly expropriating money from the budget and getting political support because their directors support the ruling coalition or prime minister, these companies are in front of a collapse such as "Krusik" in Valjevo, such as, in a way, "Freedom Cačak" etc. Please, as a man of influence, distract the finance minister and help these companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8277	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8278	The previous speaker will have to agree with his party he belongs to and have one policy that will be held for more than a month. What's good? When we meet with businessmen, and you criticise it, when I say "we are meeting", we meet institutionally, either through the Serbian Chamber of Commerce or through the ministries or through the club "A businessman, or what did the previous speaker say – are you leading the hunt? Wait, what are we doing? Either we're meeting or we're running a hunt. It's no good for either of us. Anything to do, it's no good. You can agree with yourselves what you will criticise and what you will support. On the other hand, I suppose you have some party gatherings, so as far as these smelly things are concerned, somehow these smelly things always come from the period until 2012, and you will also look for an explanation for those stinking buildings for your party colleague, Mr Olivera Dulic, because the 2010 permit for this stinking building and with the start of work and with all responsibility for which these buildings are not functional and are not healthy for the apartment. As far as these governments are concerned, as you say by these poor governments, a worse government than the government was by 2012. Because how else to define the government in which the Prime Minister says – Serbia has statistically come out of the crisis, but its citizens will not feel it. How different than irresponsible, illiterate. As an illiterate decision in which the previous speaker had participated, he even created, that these, as you say seven billion euros as much as it was, but here in the economy of my nothing. Explain to yourself how you raised your salaries in the public sector in 2008 by 68%? How did you raise your pensions in 2008 by 72% and there is no basis for economic and economic activity? How come when you've spent the substance, but you've spent the future? That math we taught you and me at the same engineering college, same way. It wasn't studying, at least not at the time I was studying. You made up for something later.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8279	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The replica was reported by MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8280	I paid off, I didn't do these foreign exchanges as it was called at the time, by protecting, so I studied for it. You have more understanding and you know it better than I do. If we're talking about those foreign exchanges. Let me tell you that just if she was the government, that pension and salary wouldn't be a problem, because the investments that came from abroad are three times higher than today. What's the fact, Mr. Sertic, is that I wouldn't want to be here with a colleague named Babic who doesn't understand. You know I won the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Award. I'm very honored with this award, because I helped export $75 million a year to $250 million. I wish you success, no matter what your colleagues don't understand. Your success is indeed a joint success, as counterpart Krkobibic said, but I fear you cannot achieve success in this way, because it is objectively not going to depend on you. It's objective if you don't participate in the creation of a budget, in creating a situation where these companies are going to work you can't provide. I wonder what you're gonna do about corporate taxation? Will this same tax policy remain? Will profits be taxed the way they are taxed? Is it possible that profit does not enter the total income of citizens? Will the interest rates paid by citizens be taxed when they make money? That doesn't go into citizens' total income again. Will Serbia continue to have less to do with taxes than to be the boss, which is not the case anywhere in the world? Please consider this as friendly advice or suggestions. I say once again, I'm very proud to have received a prize from your chamber. I'm probably the only one in this room who got it, because I got the result. I sincerely wish you a result and our party will support every reform move, but this way as you can see it is very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8281	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, because of the direct mention of the name, and that closes the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8282	We were present in this room when some people were dicking other people's feathers and something other people were doing was taking on for themselves. But in the same or similar way, direct foreign investments are shown. Direct foreign investments accepted as a result of the government's work involving the sale of Miskovic's part of Delez's company. What does a private company have to do with selling to a private company? What does that have to do with both state and foreign investment, and anything. How can the government say, that's my result, that two private companies cooperate or sell or buy, or I don't know what? So by 2012, the government, and the foreign transfers, represented the diaspora as a direct foreign investment. It's clouding reality. It's a mess. After all, it was all so wonderful, wonderful and beautiful, and arranged, and that people were doing, so what did you lose in the 2012 elections? Why did you lose in the 2012 election? In addition to all those campaigns that were handed down to Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic and all of us from the SNS. So why did you lose the election? Why did the citizens of Serbia tell you to do bad work, you have to go, it's no good what you're doing? Why are you looking at history and making history since 2012? And I wish this government had started from scratch. I wish we'd started from scratch. Let's explain why you raised your salaries in the public sector by 68% if there was no business activity. What is the other reason besides buying social peace, or buying votes and buying opportunities for another government? What were they doing? Debts, minuses, honored with 68% higher wages. So where's the economy? Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8283	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Sutanovac, I don't think you have a chance to replicate, unless it's a loss of choice, the reason for your report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8284	I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure, if I consider myself to be badly interpreted. Mr. Babic misread what I was saying. So I'm asking you to give me your word. It's just that you're running this session in a very bad way today. There are a few of us who need to talk about the law..
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8285	Mr. Sutanovac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8286	So the methodology for calculating foreign direct investment was the same until May of this year when it was changed, to show that there were several direct foreign investments. I'm sorry Mr. Dacic, who listens to me and looks at me now, doesn't want to react. He served as prime minister and prime minister's first deputy prime minister when investments amounted to 1 billion and 800m euros in 2011. On the other hand, since we're always talking about some Perry, some sneezing, I'm not going back to the '90s and that legacy you left behind. I think that would be really inappropriate. The fact is that according to public debt management papers, 15 billion and 848 million and 200,000 euros. Today, that debt is over 22 billion. In two years, SNS and the bad government have been in charge of Serbian citizens 7 billion, 3.5 billion annually, four economy ministers, three finance ministers, three defence ministers, several health ministers. Guys, you can't run the system that way. You can insult me personally as much as you want, but it doesn't help you. Mr. Granny, being out of the sea and making you nervous is something I don't care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8287	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't address the other MP directly. The word has been made by MP SNS head Zoran Babic, a direct mention of the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8288	No arguments. It's a bit of an insult right now. But no problem. We've been getting used to it since 2012. And before, from the moment the SNS was created. The SNS did not assign the State to this amount. For this amount of state, citizens have been in charge of unfounded decisions in finance, unfounded in the economy of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. You're in charge of the moment when you raised public sector wages by 68% even though business activities didn't allow that sort of thing. The moment you raised your hand and voted in favour of such a thing, and according to statements and transcripts Mr. Cvetkovic was the least guilty there, because he was against it and warned about what would happen. All the debt and new debt account for the hands raised in the air, which voted to raise salaries in the public sector by 68%. You ran the campaign with those billions, wanted to win the election. They wanted to form governments. With that 68% decision made, because that money had to be paid, those salaries had to be paid, and they weren't earned. A system was created that worked on lies, on unrealistics, on unsuspected. And then who's to blame? Someone who implements those decisions because continuity must exist, or whoever made those decisions. Of course, whoever made such decisions irresponsible and unfounded in the economy has made it. And responsibility, of course, is not on SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8289	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has his word on the agenda Mr. Sutanovac, please. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Looking for a replica.]] (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: If he says it's my fault that I raised my hand in the government, then I'm not well interpreted. Turn on the microphone for me to say. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8290	If he says it's my fault I raised my hand in the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8291	He didn't say that. He said, "Those who have raised their hand." Please, Mr. Sutanovac, he said, "Those who have raised their hand."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8292	He said, "You looked at me."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8293	Mr. Sutanovac, it's really not okay. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8294	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Sertic, if today is voting day, and I think it is, from today on, and the minister of the new government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the most important viewers of this show. The citizens of RS, more than any of us here and all that we are saying here, actually, concerns you and what we need to fix in the state of Serbia which is not good at this moment, and as regards, among other things, the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the team in which you will be, Mr Sertic. I'm not going to ask you anything, as we've heard, nor will I ask you questions about tax policy, since a few weeks ago we chose a finance minister to ask these questions to. I won't even comment on the Etyhad Treaty, because it turns out that it's all the opposition or, let's say, part of the opposition in Serbia manages to ask as a question or as a problem in the state of Serbia. I'm going to talk about something that, in my opinion, is extremely important, so again, in my humble opinion, the most important thing in the business that you have to do, which is entrepreneurship in Serbia and the development of an entrepreneurial spirit in Serbia, which, I say again, has been murdered there since 1945 and has not been developed. Without it, the story of foreign direct investment anyone who deals with the economy knows that they are naturally desirable to Serbia. I can't wait for a rock foundation for PKC, a serious company, a factory that will employ 1500 people in the city, to be established in my Smederev on Friday. Of course foreign investments are both desirable and necessary in Serbia, but we will not have real economic development without domestic entrepreneurs and without a domestic entrepreneurial spirit that will develop economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, family businesses, everything we talk about. So, already some colleagues here have spoken, I would ask you to pay attention to cooperativeism and everything that it takes to recover and develop again in Serbia, because cooperatives existed hundreds of years ago and were present in Serbia, in the economy and in the 19th century, and we need it further, and it has been dead for the past 20, 30 years in Serbia. Then, please, I will ask you to be open to entrepreneurs in Serbia, no matter what we often hear these expressions, tycoons, this, that. Who's to blame? Who broke the law? There are institutions in the state of Serbia that need to be taken care of. In my opinion, we must be the strictest to those who do not pay taxes, such as in normal civilized democratic states of the world and how present. We did not celebrate in the past decades, and we discovered, said Honorable counterpart Babic, the example we discovered in some entrepreneurs or some companies in Serbia that they had hidden some figures somewhere that were due to the state to pay taxes from which we should build roads, schools, kindergartens, to finance the work of courts, military, police. You need to talk to entrepreneurs and respect their opinion to the greatest extent possible in order to develop a entrepreneurial spirit and to enable them to invest in Serbia and help others invest in Serbia and, of course, help the banking sector invest. The spirit of entrepreneurship must be encouraged. I'm telling you that since you're going to sit in government, that spirit of entrepreneurship must be encouraged by young people in Serbia. I'll say it the first time we're here talking to the Minister of Education. We must enter our education system, now look at Serbia's educational system, there is nothing that would develop in young people the spirit of entrepreneurship in Serbia, nothing that says it's worth it, that it's something that young people should believe, something that young people should be trying to do, because if they need to develop some television and what we see there, what money is and how, or what money can be achieved, then we're not on the right track. I'm talking about the entrepreneurial spirit, and we have to develop a business environment, that's your job. It is your job to develop a business environment that corresponds to all entrepreneurs, to all businesses, not only those who are willing to come from abroad to invest money, not only to investment funds, but also to people who are willing to develop the economy, to join the business system, to make their companies, small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm going to say some examples from Serbia, and I'm going to be done with it very soon, so we can get to the vote, and you can go do your job. We have around Belgrade the task of some successful people who used to work, create and leave their people in charge, leave part of their wealth that they acquired because they were present on this market, etc. When we develop it, it's this entrepreneurial spirit and it's this economic environment where we'll know we're all together. Here often when we were talking, here we heard about the Labour Act, the Privatization Act, a law on bankruptcy that you now, we don't have anything else to say, we just need to implement them and that's what we did here a few months ago in the next year, right, that's your job. We have to realize that we're together. It is often said here when such laws are questionable – working class. The workers of this, the workers of that, the workers' rights, and the rights of the entrepreneur? I think in the last year, the first time, an MP since December 2000 alone, I have heard of the rights of entrepreneurs in this assembly of parliament to speak. All the previous ones haven't talked about it for a moment. I was an MP and the authorities and the opposition, and they didn't talk about it. For the first time in this House's assembly, that's what we're talking about. In order to have responsibilities, to remain something to these people of these successful people, we must also make such an ambience that we know that they are part of us, not that they are some. Therefore, they should also be included in these fallen public enterprises. Everyone talks about "Serbian gas", but someone doesn't mention "Serbian forests", 100% national potential, 100% national wealth. If one Kostic or Jevrosimovic were at least on the Supervisory Board, it would certainly work much better. I'll tell you the example, we're talking about whether we can export to the Far East. I don't know if you know it, but the modern-day winemakers, privates, owners of small private basements in the '30s have been exporting wine to Japan, and we're now talking about whether we have products for our neighbors, let alone for a distant market. We can, but we have to remember and go back to what we used to be. I don't know if you know it, but in August of this year, the "Janko" basement from Smedereva won in London, at a nice festival, the biggest in Europe, the first red wine award in Europe, for the best. The owner of a small basement, a small winery. Such people need to be encouraged, helped to gain even more. You know, he got a gold medal. I've never seen it published, said it was said. You probably know in the Chamber of Commerce, but it's an extremely important thing, and nobody's saying that, say, Serbia has made one of the best wines in Europe this year. As we get to that, there used to be, I said that once before, Sartid was formed -- a Serbian action mining artillery industry, in 1913 in the state of Serbia, with joint mixed capital in German and Serbian. That's what I'm talking about. Who did the Germans have to work with? They had good businessmen in Serbia working together. The factory today is “The Iron. ” I hope these days we'll solve this problem, and that's what's waiting for you. There are interested, but I hope you'll settle it soon, because Smederjevska "The Iron" when it works is also good for the Serbian economy. While U.S. Steel was in "The Irons" exports were a far higher rate of exports of the very Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia and the economy was more stable. That's why I hope that these agreements that are being made, and I have to say what the Smederians want or you're employed, they're used to an American partner like U.S. Steel, that "Esmark style" is going to negotiate with him that it's something they're hoping for. Of course you'll choose something that's the best offer, but the best offer isn't just some money, but the market that's offered, the working conditions and everything else that goes with it. So, modernizing that factory so it won't be with the old technology anymore, etc. That's very important. I hope that you too will be part of the team that will address the welfare of the Irons these days, but of course the states of Serbia. You'll have support here while you're working on it and from me you'll be convinced and, of course, in voting day that you'll get my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8295	I thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The People's Messenger, Riza Halimi, has the word, and let the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Tomic, be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable members of the government, I will shortly get involved in the debate, agreeing that there is a real possibility and that today we are getting a very good solution for the future Minister of Economy. All the elements are there. Now, of course, that part of preparedness remains, the possibility of facing very big problems that are present over a long period of time, even considering the global crisis, which, behold, when it comes to our country that it has already taken a dramatic situation. Former Ugljanin, today he spoke with very accurate data, and I've been bringing these data here a little longer. How much is it invested in underdeveloped municipalities? Which is why all the time here, I've been here since 2007, always finding the same condition, to increase the gap between undeveloped and developed municipalities, that they are even more lagging behind, and the fact that if foreign investments are only with 1% in these 46 undeveloped municipalities, then the situation is quite clear. If, again, I add, let's not copy everything we heard in the morning, and I have this data that is the coordination body for the funds invested in this period of time when it was more worked in the Presevo Valley in 2001, 2008, it can be very clear that somewhere in that period, the population of the investment is all 3,900 dinars, and you heard the data of 19,000 are probably harder, and I have data from 2008 there about 20,000 - 21,000 in the state-level per capita for all municipalities. Then it is quite clear why we have reached this situation to reach a dramatic 80% in the area of unemployment, and above all in the Albanian population. Well, then it's quite understandable why the government is even surprised here in the Assembly when we have a debate, that there's been an asylum problem. Then only on the surface of the problem is mentioned there because it threatens visa liberalisation, but it has never shown its willingness to seriously consider why people leave their hometowns. Why look for solutions in the white world because they have no perspective? Young people who arrived in the 40s and with higher education can't find employment. They can't keep families and what else they're going to do but look for solutions in other countries. So at least so far, let's hope that these new solutions in the government will be more prepared to approach these problems more seriously. Overall, when it comes to underdeveloped municipalities, but we must admit that in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji, inflation has taken a dramatic turn. Not only do those mountain villages remain empty, but all other centers are at risk. The government has already established there through the Statistics Institute that I should say the plan, that there are only 5,800 Albanians in this country, that there are only 3,000 residents in Presevo of those 35,000 that were numbered in 2002, not counting those that I have abroad and all of which are about 400 Albanians. But first, if it's serious. Is it an attempt to close your eyes, not solve problems and shift to other responsibilities that the government has, which it cannot escape from. Here's the whole point for me now. I hope this minister will give me an answer to the question I have been asking for six years – why there is no cross-border co-operation with Macedonia alone. It has all the states in the environment, and only with Macedonia where Presevo, Bujanovac, border municipalities have interests. And that's not there. With Kosovo, we know the political problem now, but in 2001, we had a project of co-operation between Gjilana, Kumanovo, Presevo through the Council of Europe. We just stayed at the level of some cultural co-operation, and we didn't achieve that economic part, because naturally in the former Yugoslavia that area was connected to Kumanov and Skopje or Gjilan and Pristina. Here, we don't solve that. Let's hope that with the future minister we can be more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8297	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Tomic, and let it be prepared as the last reported debater, MP Mujo Mukovic, if there is any time left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8298	I thank the chairman. Dear President, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, Mr Sertic, today we have one great honour to support the candidate for the Minister of Industry, a man who has shown himself with his results in the PKK, to show, in addition to all the activities that were in Serbia, a serious force with which he can deal both in Brussels and in Moscow, and in the United Arab Emirates, and in China. It shows essentially that today we really have a good candidate for the Minister of Economy. What's waiting for you is certainly not easy. You've had a chance to hear from all my colleagues that you'll encounter. As Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I can only tell you that the Members of the Committee, which I am chairing, and that includes regional development, which is in your jurisdiction, are very curious and very active and so far we have done a lot on the principle of regional development. We have had a lot of contacts with business associations to develop, and this will be one of your main tasks, respect and formation, implementation of the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship in Serbia by 2030, which you are certainly familiar with, since you are members of the European Association. What I want to tell you, and that is that some members of the opposition that have been acquired by the governors, including the Yugoslav Army, including some banks, including businesses, including the construction of Serbia itself, are now simply seeking to show that this government, headed by the SNS, has no power to deal with all these problems. Well, for God's sake, we do, and that tourism we talked about. I would simply like to inform both you and your colleagues that Mr. Lonacar has launched an initiative to create an interminist working group, which will include both the PIO Fund and all the republican authorities that should systematically address the issue of spas in Serbia. The economy ministry should be leading in the task force, as there are plenty of spas that remain within the Social Enterprises' jurisdiction of the Ministry of Business. I hope that you will surely find adequate solutions with these problems in the process of finding strategic partners. That's what trade is about. As far as regional development is concerned, I can only tell you that one study has been done in which of the 39 municipalities the best results in investment have shown two municipalities, or cities. It is Kragujevac because of the "Fiyat" in which Serbia has invested very much from the fund. The second part is the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the municipalities of Stara Paz, because the smallest number of unemployed are practically people precisely because of the development of entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises. As my colleagues have said, that is why we believe that in the future you can deal with these problems, but also with these beautiful things where the real sector will surely support you. In the end, I would also like to tell you that all the problems that await you, not just waiting for you, waiting for the Serbian government, waiting for this parliament, waiting for the citizens of Serbia, but we can solve these problems together. The question is and is always being asked as much as we can actually realize in practice and that certain laws live. We are like SNS MPs, and I think our coalition partners, too, are open to helping you and that we live together in a better Serbia. It is your job from a negative past to make a positive future in the present. We hope it comes to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8299	Thank you. The last speaker is Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8300	Thank you. I thank my colleague Tomic for leaving me enough time. The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Dacic, Mr. Sertice, I hope there is no symbolism in what I say lastly, that what I'm about to say is the least important. On the contrary, from the position of the president of the Bosniak People's Party, one minority and one regional party based in Novi Pazar, I would first say that as a partner and as a member of the SNS parliamentary group, of course, I would vote in favour of Mr Sertic's election. In addition to his biography, the most important thing that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has proposed as a man who has won the elections so convincingly and has legitimacy and we must trust his proposals, because he is also the most interested in the successful work of this government. So everything the government does well in the area of economy and economy, it will be in some way a great success of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and if there are any failures and failures, it will also go on his continent. I will say, once again, from the corner of the president of a regional and minority party and I will talk about the catastrophic state of the economy of the Sanjay municipalities. So, after the economy, as well as the rest of the country was destroyed in the nineties, after the five-octobaric changes that I stood up for and participated in, there was soon a great disappointment and failed hopes and, apart from the first government after 2000, I don't want to talk about it because it had a great task, to bring the country back to international organisations and do a lot of things, for all the other governments I can say that they had one non-domestic relationship with the Sanjay municipalities and that part of Serbia had been completely ignored and, to say the contrary, had forgotten. Today I speak to you, and I want him to hear me, first of all, Prime Minister Vukic, because he runs this government and has the greatest responsibility. I wouldn't want it to happen if someone could say the same thing about this government tomorrow. So after 2000, there was a complete destruction of the economy in Sandzak. The most important companies in the region were destroyed - Teka Raška in Novi Pazar, then Vojin Popović, Jelak in Tutina, Vesna in Sedica, Iris Confection and Ljubisa Miodragović in Prepolje, etc. A lot of less known production plants have been closed, many workers fired. Today we have unemployment in Sandzak about 50%, twice as much as in Serbia, although at the state level and this data is high. So that's enough picturesque to say what the economy is like in Sandzak. The common people in this multiethnic region, regardless of which nation and religion they belong, want well Serbia, want good and that part of our country, they want, simply put, justice and work, but the state did not have all these years of hearing about the region and so I now appeal that it is high time for something to change, because when the EU abolished visas, more than 20,000 young people left immediately. If it wasn't for that, believe me, this region would be starving. Today in this discussion I have heard, I sincerely look forward to thinking that every MP, whether it belongs to the position or to the opposition, should rejoice, will be open at an average of about 1,000 jobs in Nis, Subotica, Piroth, Smedereva, Vranja, Jagodina. I was just hoping to hear this series of New Markets, Tutin, Pryce, Pryce, Nova Varosh, Sjanica, unfortunately, and this time I couldn't hear it. All these years, Sandzak citizens have supported Serbia's European path. We've had representatives in the executive office, and some for too long. It is already known, not to mention names and not to bring evil blood into any complicated political life in Sandzak, but first of all, I want to pass on to Prime Minister Vukic as a national MP what the citizens of Sandzak and the residents of this region are ordering and asking him to give us as few ministerial posts as possible and as many jobs as possible in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8301	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before the search is concluded, I'm asking if anyone under article 96 wants to use their right to the time that's left. (No) I am concluding the debate on the proposal for a candidate for a member of the Government. According to Article 270(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule 3rd September 2014 as a Danza vote on a motion for a member of the Government. We'll approach the vote at 3:00 and 45 minutes to prepare the lists. A break until a few minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 166 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal to elect a member of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2). The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the Government, decides in general by a secret vote, unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I suggest the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the government to vote publicly. I am putting the motion to put the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the Government to vote publicly. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169, against – four abstentions – there is no, no vote – seven, of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that a proposal for a member of the government should be elected publicly. Before moving to a roll call vote, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 2.9) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 25(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Government, the National Assembly of Government members, elects most of the votes of all MPs. I remind you it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call. In accordance with Article 131, the Secretary General of the National Assembly shall be appointed by the MPs by the alphabetic order of the last name. The MPs who approach the vote say the words “for, ” “against, ” or“ abstention. ” The name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement are repeated, i.e. it is determined whether he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence, with his name and last name on the list. The decision is considered to be made when the president of the National Assembly finds that it was voted by the majority prescribed by the Constitution, which is the majority of the total number of MPs. I am now putting to vote the proposal to elect Zeljko Sertic as Minister of Industry, so we approach the vote by calling on the MPs. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8303	Alexić Dragan – for Alexić Irena – for Anastasov Adrijan – for Andrejević Dejan – for Andrić Mirjan – for Antić Zoran – for Arsenović Konstan – absent Arsić Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – for Babić Vlado – absent Babić Zoran – for Bjatović Dusan – absent Banac Groždan – absent Barišić dr Dragan – for Batić Olgica – absent Bauer Ivan – absent Bačevac – for Berić Nebojša – for Beronja dr Ljiljan – for Besarović Prof. – Dr Vesna – absent Bečić Igor Žažić – for Birmančević – for Bić Milen – for Bić Branislav – for Bogotina Žar – for Bogdanović – for Boš – for Božarović – from Božjan Žarjan Žarjan Žarić V.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-03-0.u8304	Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. A few minutes off. What's your name? Saviović Biljana. Now we're gonna check it out, I think it's on file. So the vote is closed, we can just check who voted, we can't vote retroactively. I'm sorry. A few minutes off until we get the votes together. [[after breaks]] Allow me to announce the results of the vote: out of the 182 MPs who joined the vote for a motion to elect a member of the government, 178 MPs voted against - four MPs, abstentioned - were not, did not want to vote - zero, absent - 68 MPs. Since 178 MPs voted for a proposal to elect a member of the government, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly has chosen Zeljko Sertic as Minister of Industry. Allow me to congratulate Minister Sertic on his choice on your behalf. I now ask Minister of Business Zeljko Sertic to comply with Article 16(2). The Government Act of Accession for the purposes of taking an oath. (The president reads the text of the oath, and the minister repeats it. ) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia and to my honor, to honor the Constitution and the law, that the government's duty will be done knowingly, responsibly and committed, and I will be dedicated to the preservation of the Kosovos and the metaphors within the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to sign the text of the oath. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement was committed by the National Assembly without a search, which he declared in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 3 September 2014, pointed to a violation of Article 269 at 10 o'clock and 18 minutes. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – 14 abstentions, voted 122 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic said at a session on 3 September 2014, at 10 o'clock and 22 minutes he pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 12 abstentions – has voted 119 of the total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic said at a session on 3 September 2014, at 13 hours and 05 minutes that he was injured. 106th and 109th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – eight, abstentions – has voted on 125 of the total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I conclude the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
