ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9115	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Branko Ružić, Neđo Jovanovic, Miroslav Markicevic, Konstantin Arsenović, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović and Dr. Ivan Bauer. We continue our work and are passing the search in the details of the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPROVAL OF THE LAWS ON State officials. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolić, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Božović, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Ljiljana Nestorović, Milutin Bicanin, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meso Omerović, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarevic, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanović Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homen, Zoran Babić, Olgica Batić, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Saba Dazdarevrević, Enis Imajmajmajovic, Enizamović, Riza Halimović, Risa Halim and Samu Javre, as well of the state and the state of the State, as well as well as well as well as well as well as the Committee of the Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the light of the search in detail on the proposals for the laws of points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the prime minister, Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I have called on the sittings to attend also Natalija Pavlovic - Šiniković, Tatjana Zeljković, Marija Lukic, Jelena Parezović and Milos Popović, as well as representatives of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9116	Thank you. In our amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, we wanted to make two adjustments, or we proposed that two adjustments be made. First, when we talk about delivery, the bill provides for mail delivery, and we have suggested that it be not only by mail but by the recommended shipment, because delivery to the recommended shipment represents one reason for legal certainty and for whoever sends it and for whoever receives it. If it remained this way in the post office, it would be understood that delivery could also be carried out by ordinary shipment, without any evidence that the delivery was even tried and without any evidence that the delivery was sent and received by the shipment. I am sorry that this has not been accepted, because the amendment was practically merely a technical character, for a more precise and unambiguous formulation of the way in which it was delivered. In your second position, you predicted that the official face of the state authority would draw up a written note. The note can only be written. There is no oral note. If you say it's a note, it's a note and it can only be written in writing. We predicted, if your position is such that it should still be stressed that it must be in writing, then be in writing rather than in writing, because people are written or illiterate, and forms are oral or written. I'm sorry this amendment hasn't been adopted either. It does not maintain any particular policy, but only a more precise and grammatically correct formulation of the proposed member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9117	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Mr Zlata Djeric's MP came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, indeed without any special political connotation, I suggest you adopt this amendment. The amendment is really just technical. The amendment requires that the words “written note” be replaced by the words “book in writing. ” It's the right syntagma to stand. The written note is a completely different meaning. Being in writing and illiterate is something else than being written or unwritten. These are two different meanings in language. We've intervened before on laws that had this form and all had enough hearing to correct it. So literacy and illiteracy is a different content of the concept than written and unwritten. Believe me, this amendment is completely technical and I support it because it really contributes to the quality of this member and the clarity of this member and the literacy of the whole law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9119	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9120	It's no problem to correct it in the legal technical order. The entire amendment also contained a proposal to replace the usual recommended shipments, which really changes the whole process and I don't want that amendment in that sense to be accepted, so let's not discuss technical editorials now. It's okay to mention it, we can do it, it's not a dispute, but then it's not an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9121	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9122	Thank you. Let me remind you of two things. Until the presentation of Minister Kori Udovicki was only one, which is that such amendments, including the submission of MP Zlata Djeric, were accepted precisely because it makes sense, which the minister said was a legal-technical order, is a scandal by the council. Do not do this in any way, let us see published in the “Official Messenger” amended text that can only be changed by amendment. Words that change this way can only be changed by amendment. Everything else is an abuse someone would have to answer for. So, if we need to have discussions about free will to interpret what is written and what is written, it should be expressed through someone's decision to change the text of a member of the law, I ask you most nicely not to do it. There may be a delay in the course of the vote, to be submitted by the Committee of Amendments, it may, if there is a will, make arrangements to make amendments, but it cannot possibly change the text of the members of the law because you will not accept the amendment in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9123	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9124	Thank you. With the proposed amendment, we intend the Government to rename the heads of the administrative districts from the position of civil servants as officials, we consider it unwarranted, we have proposed erasure. Because, as I said in the principle debate, the county's chiefs do not have in their current regulations to regulate their powers any authority that should make them official from the status of a civil servant. Therefore, the county's chiefs are the most common coordinators who coordinate and monitor the work of district units, they make no decisions, they propose nothing but the launch of a disciplinary procedure for employees in district units. When we discussed and in principle I am and now I ask the question – what great authority does the district chief have that he would no longer be satisfied with the position of a civil servant, but that he must be a future official? As I said, such a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is contrary to EU recommendations on the professionalisation of administration. I am really worried that in a month or two, we will discuss this again, because EU recommendations will have to be incorporated into valid regulations, but then the government will have a problem that the district heads who have just been living in the role of officials, explain why there will be no more officials, but return to them apparently humiliating the status of civil servants.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9125	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9126	Thank you. I understand the subject of the amendment. I can't say that there's no point in the amendment itself, but I think the government's intention is far better, about the county's chiefs, because they really, really, because they're delegated by the government and that they really are in some way officials, they should be people who paint in the best way and government and state policies in a particular county. I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Udovicki, since all our district chiefs have a general problem in their districts where they're stationed, the first thing they ask for is a little bit. They do have a problem with local self-government leaders who sometimes want to go deaf about what they're carrying over there. Second, no one knows them on the ground. They would have to be far more public. I would really ask that in the future, when you regulate that area, that you actually trust the county's chiefs with certain higher powers, so that they can actually do their function, which is very important, in an adequate way. It seems kind of pointless like this. It must be defined what the district chief is serving in a particular environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9127	Thank you. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9128	Aleksandra Jerkov has tabled an amendment concerning amendments to Article 36 of Article 2 of the basic text of the Law on civil servants. According to the proposal and the idea of the promoters, this new position 2 which will be changed would be – for the work on the job of a senior advisor, a state official must have a higher education on basic academic studies in the range of at least 240 points, master academic studies, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies, or basic studies of at least four years or specialist studies at the university and at least seven years of professional experience. Knowing how difficult and responsible work is in the state administration, counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov added that for work on jobs there should also be knowledge of English language and knowledge of computer work. The explanation that this can be established by competition, the sublaws are not good enough, and there is no reason why, if we are all really committed to European integration, we do not write this to people who will do much more than any politician in European integration. If this is an observation that could be prone to the government finding other ways to ensure that a government official has knowledge of English language and skills on the computer, it would only show more stubbornness, meaning that we also think that he or she must know English and have to know how to use the computer, but that we will not write it in law. I think it's a common benefit to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9129	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9130	Thank you. When we define by the draft law all the conditions in terms of type and degree of professional training necessary for the work of counselors, senior, independent, junior advisor, associates and people in position, which is exactly what members of 3 do, and ultimately with the 9th member, I see no reason that if the bill already does so, that if the type and degree of expertise is defined, that no specific conditions that we consider relevant for the work on these jobs in the state administration are defined. We're talking about something that is basic or implies elementary literacy in the 21st century, which is knowledge of English and computer work. How important this is, especially in the process of joining the EU, which involves daily contacts between state administrations with authorised representatives and state authorities, EU bodies, it is important, among other things, and because holders of the highest state functions, as I said, do not know English. It is necessary that at least in professional services there is someone who will understand what the Republic of Serbia is asked to do in the accession process and what should be done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9131	Thank you. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment to the article. Three, four, five, six, nine, and 25. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9132	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that yesterday we have completed a debate on amendments to the Law on Higher Education and that it is almost certain that parliament will vote on most of these amendments and additions, in which the introduction of Master of Professional Studies at Higher Professional Schools is also a framework, we wanted, of course, to plan ahead, to save and try to save the state time and money, since in these members who are chaired, the Master of Professional Studies is not mentioned. Of course, I can't even mention myself because the law is not yet passed, but it is almost certain that we will vote and that this level of study will be included in our higher education already safely during the 2015-2016 school year. Our proposal was to cover this aspect by, in accordance with the current Higher Education Act, stating, instead of masters of academic, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies, we will unite them in the second degree of higher education, which appears as an addition to a degree that is very important and inseparable when students graduate and obtain conditions for obtaining a certain title. In this way, we would avoid having to make amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants in 2016, since then generations of students will study and finish their studies in master’s studies. When they're done, they won't have their place under that law, and then we'll definitely have to make changes and supplement laws accordingly. In this way, we from the SDPS, we felt it was possible to cover the entire second degree of higher education, and in accordance with the law on higher education and the way the addition to diploma, which is an inseparably part of the process of completing studies, first and second, of course, degrees, requires and defines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9133	National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted an amendment to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 25. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the Fourth Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9134	Aleksandra Jerkov has submitted an amendment which deletes Article 2 and changes and lists the master of academic studies, specialist academic studies, etc. Because changes and the introduction of masters of vocational studies are ongoing. The explanation that it takes time for someone who, by new law, when and if adopted, really acquires the calling of masters of professional studies is reasonable, because it will take some years, although there are examples of life when it doesn't take many years to acquire a calling, but well, these are exceptions. The absence of his or her right to, after the acquired calling of the Master of Professional Studies, against whom the introduction of the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov and the professional public who was in public listening simply makes no sense. I don't want any suggestion to re-emerge that a language editorial can come into play, so that in this article, after the adoption of the law on higher education, a master of professional studies is simply introduced. Please don't do this. There are MPs who read the published texts of the law in the Official Messenger, for the very reason that the regulation procedure is respected, because the procedure is culture and vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9135	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9136	Thank you. As I said in explaining the previous amendment with the same content, knowledge of English language and computer work is an educational standard in the 21st century. Today, when you look at competitions and ads for job openings, you will see that business secretary also needs English language knowledge and computer work, unless we are dealing with grand and other ballerinas. It is very important that in the 21st century state administration, apart from the conditions relating to species and degrees of professional training, the law provides for knowledge of English language and computer work. Not only because of the EU accession process, but also because it is important that we have a modern, professional and educated state administration in which politics will have less and less and more expertise, knowledge and ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9137	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9138	I will refer to my distinguished colleague and say that the Resort Ministry should consider the need to accept this amendment. If we are already trying to be in the EU, then we need to know some standards that are respected there. We are not a country that will enter the EU by belonging to its historical space, geographically, however you wish, but what is necessary, and that is not any whim, is not any need, is exactly what is contained in the explanation of such an amendment, which was explained by said colleague Vesna Martinovic. I think you should accept this amendment, because knowing English and working on a computer today, we're talking about 2014, the 21st century, is an necessity and no job, not just for working in the authorities of the state administration, can't be done without English language and knowledge of computer work. I have to point out that when something is said to be wrong, but maybe it can be considered, with us, it seems to me, there is always a constant resistance to the essential good solutions being delayed for later, so it's said – well, it doesn't matter, we'll regulate it by sublegal acts. Calling for regulation by sublegal acts, I think it's inconclusive, unacceptable, and especially because of everything my colleagues have said, explaining some previous amendments, have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9139	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9140	I was already saying, when I was talking about the law in principle, that we only proposed here technical alignment with the Higher Education Act. It is true that I said that we expect deeper and more serious changes in the near term, in line with the analyses we are now doing and while we are doing the Pay Law, which must be urgently adopted for fiscal reasons, so we will seriously consider and change the approach to what all conditions are for calling. They'll be closer to skills, to the type of work, and less to some formal qualifications. But when it comes to English and computers, we consulted international experts before it appeared in the amendment. We have been confirmed that it is not an international practice for such requests to be put into laws. A man could still do it, and I'm not ruling out that we're going to do it in the next change, if we think that's the way in our legislation to give something enough responsibility and weight. However, we want to be first convinced that these conditions are absolutely necessary for each job. I'm not sure that's true. When we put such a thing as a condition, either in law or in a sublegal act, which is more likely, then we will really implement it, which means it will be a major procedure in relation to the business of the state administration. We want to be ready for something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9141	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9142	Thank you. If it is true, as the Deputy Prime Minister says, that this law is not in line with the Law on Higher Education, the matter is completely pointless, because it is not in line with the Law on Higher Education. There are at least four amendments to this, because the Higher Education Act knows the master of professional studies. If it is true, which I have no doubt at all, that the Deputy Prime Minister has both knowledge and skill and will, and I hope and support, that we really have professional and more advisors and younger advisors, then the argument is that this will be done in some future period equally pointless, and that this is all a alignment with the Higher Education Act because we're going to change it because of the Master of Professional Studies, we talked about this 15 minutes ago. Whether or not our state administration, whether or not it's about the European integration sector directly, means the office or, I don't doubt the profession of people, whether or not this is going to be put into sublegal acts, we can't know that. But I must add, obviously, that someone else does not know that there is a resolution on the legislative policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to which the proposer is obliged to submit a sublegal act together with the draft act or to give an explanation of why he does not bear it. The resolution was adopted unanimously, in June 2013, just so we don't have, instead of a real argument on how to make the state administration ready together for what the European integration business is and to change our mentality, when it comes to the administration, it would be much better if we had all read everything now, because it doesn't give us enough assurance that we will have really six months or a year from now some other law that will then be in line with the Law on Higher Education, or the Master of Professional Studies, have more changes and introduction and knowledge of the English language and knowledge on the computer. It's completely wrong to believe that it's important who submits the amendment. It's very right to read what the amendment says. If the amendment says something that is supported by support and argument by both MPs and ruling parties and MPs of the opposition, then it is a matter of the Council of common sense to accept such content of the amendment. It's not about the government's power not to accept. Of course he can. It is the government's willingness to accept what is offered as good. Otherwise, with such an argument for all of us who have read the Resolution which obliges each proposing and each member and discussed the Law on Higher Education, it simply does not stand, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9143	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The amendment to Article 4 was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovi, Dejan Niko, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9144	As my colleagues have already said, this amendment also tries to sort out what knowledge is and what skills are, and what things are necessary for people who will function within the framework of the state apparatus, and we want to clearly specify and improve what is required of the people who perform these functions. We believe that in the 21st century, in the context of European integrations that we all stand for, it is not simply normal and it seems not enough for someone to present it in a factual sense. I repeat, we have said several times during the previous debate, an act, the state administration is a pillar of the Serbian state. In that sense, since we are a civil state, since we are a country facing European integration, it is necessary that people who have called a senior advisor, adviser or a younger adviser have knowledge of English as mandatory and have knowledge of computer work. It's something that's alphabet or alphabet, that suits who more. If we ignore it again, then it will open the way for people to receive and raise themselves in a certain way. It will be left to various committees within the framework of the state administration to assess who is capable and what to do. If you adopt this amendment, please, we will have a more precise definition of what, in which place it can perform. I don't see what's wrong with this precision. I know you personally don't mind your associates, too, I'm sure. But I'm also asking most why it's a problem to specify the knowledge of English and computer work. I understand that some of you may have some personal issues, but then get up and tell me. Don't let our government in this way deny the breadth of knowledge and the breadth of experience that takes time, not laws, but time and life. Such an amendment if it doesn't pass, our law will go beyond life, beyond the time in which it is brought. That's the worst option for every parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9145	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Chairman, dear guests and dear guests of the ministry, Mrs. Udovici has accepted one of the eight amendments we have submitted, but that is not the amendment. I think it's a mistake that this amendment isn't accepted, too. Now I'm going to try to convince Mrs. Widowsky once more that she needs to accept this amendment as well. We have proposed that article 2 in Article 39 be changed, I will offer two arguments, and this is what it says – to work on the jobs of a younger advisor, the civil servant must have acquired a higher education in basic academic studies of at least 240 ESP points, that is, master of academic studies, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies, or basic studies of at least four years of age, or spectralistic studies at the university and completed a traineeship or, there is now one of our proposals, three years of training in state bodies. We believe that and we have put it in a statement, that it is enough for the job of a junior advisor, that the candidate has three years of employment instead of five, as you suggested. We added one explanation beyond this, which is that it also concerns the alignment of the selection criteria to the executive posts, on the basis of Article 35. Law on civil servants. You have explained to us that you cannot accept this amendment for reasons of integrity. You consider your proposal to be more comprehensive than our proposal is comprehensive. I came from a Serbian dictionary, to see what celibacy means, but since I can't explain it in two minutes, and you repeat that argument, then I will try to explain for the next amendment why you should have accepted both this and the next, Mrs. Udovicki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9147	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted the 6th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9148	As my colleagues Vesna Martinovic and the president of the DS Parliament Club, Borislav Stefanovic have already stressed, we insist that in each of these members who intend to comply with the Law on Higher Education, but whether because of lack of consultation between ministries or who knows why, they will essentially not be in line with the Law on Higher Education. So we have offered alternatives either in the amendments currently being made or in the amendments signed by the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov, where these members are deleted. I had an idea that I had to share with you, which my colleagues after the debate about how to improve these changes and supplements didn't accept. I stayed in the minority, which doesn't mean I was wrong. It is necessary to prescribe in a member of the law how you are obliged to write the arguments of the Government sent to the National Assembly, because they knew English – they did not know, in most of the arguments that one of the senior advisors, junior advisors or advisers wrote is unreadable or attributed to the wrong argumentation of the amendment or quite wrong, as will be seen from at least two arguments that we have received on the submission of the amendment. Why do I mention the kind of work that one of the officers is going to do that has the expertise of a counselor? Because that's where there's negligence, I don't care - what I care what I write to the National Assembly. If we don't understand that we can't talk together - we're for the EU and we want European integration and I don't care what I write to the MP, then it's all going to be one thing whether counselors know English or not. To finish with the anecdote because I heard about the English language not from the officers but from the chief of the negotiating team who spoke to a large enough number of people that he had to explain what screening means, so he said it means the network. When you get to the point where you have a transmission of unpleasantness, because that's what people translate to other people who don't know, then you say, let's at least try to argue that they have to speak English and then eventually know what the word scringing means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9149	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Minister, the Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have suggested that Article 2 of this Bill be amended. He is an associate, and we believe that an associate who is a civil servant should have at least five years of working experience in the profession, and we, respected Mrs. Udovici, have argued this proposal by binding this bill in the position of Article 40(2) to Article 35. Law on civil servants and Article 40. Law on civil servants. We find our proposal more comprehensive than yours. You have explained to us that your proposal is more comprehensive than ours, and here I am going back to the dictionary, says in the dictionary the same thing as the meaningful, and the meaningful one says - which corresponds to the purpose appropriate, adjusted, comprehensive. Look, if that's the meaning of the word celebratory, then I think Mrs. Widowsky, it's not right that you're just telling us our proposal is more comprehensive, but it's, I mean, quite natural to explain how your proposal is more comprehensive. So it's not enough to say - I've put up with the whole thing and that's it. No, we think ours is more celebratory. We have explained very precisely in our amendment why we consider it more comprehensive. You have not explained why your proposal is more comprehensive and how the MPs of the NS, for example, are now being appointed. They can judge in voting day on this amendment. Please tell me today why your proposal is more comprehensive. Maybe I'll change my mind about the position of 2nd Article 40. The bill of law you're defending today in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9151	I thank Professor Pavicevic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted the 7th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9152	We propose, as in previous amendments, that Article 40 of Article 2 changes and that it is said that for the work on the calling of associates, the civil servant must have acquired a higher education in basic academic studies in the range of at least 180 ECPB points, basic vocational studies, or studies up to three years, at least three years of working experience in the profession, and what we propose, knowledge of English language and knowledge of computer work. We believe that this would significantly contribute to better quality work by a civil servant. We haven't heard of any particulars by the majority, nor from you distinguished ministers, which is why this is harmful, why this is unnecessary, why this doesn't contribute, which is why it doesn't contribute, what it is that spoils what you've imagined to make our civil servants better, as we've heard you have more cellular solutions. I would ask you to tell us why, therefore, why the knowledge of English language and the knowledge of computer work cannot improve the work of a civil servant in this rank, why it cannot make his work more quality, accessible citizens and, more importantly, available time in which we live and in the processes in which this country is located. Now it's already obvious, these processes are irrevocable. Which is why our officers wouldn't make it more efficient, better, better and more quality and in line with this country's strategic definition, if we really want to build a successful, quality state apparatus, a clerk's apparatus. I believe and DS believes that these people who work responsible, in a professional way of doing jobs, must have knowledge of English language, at least knowledge of computer work, which I suppose most of them have, but this would have avoided the situation for someone, taking time from the parliamentary group, to be used in various competitions of the current undefined state, filled with broad terms that are called exclusively for the professional preparation, which, as you know, in Serbia yesterday, we had a quality debate, is very debateable. We have a situation where high academics are probably plagiarizing and we have a situation where people end up in suspicious higher schools or colleges, where they are employed in public enterprises and state administration. Help this state minister to stop this trend of party employment without clear qualifications, when you and I know that people in the last two years have been admitted to both public administration and public enterprises not with knowledge of English language and computer, but whether they have a clear legal qualification for what they have applied for. This is one step to stop it, that people who don't have any qualifications, have suspicious degrees from suspected universities now try to get in the way of what we're going to say -- you have to know English and you have to know that you're working on a computer, which will be verified by the appropriate commission. This is how we're going to have a very bad practice to continue. I have two, three of my party men from a bar who just wants to work at the state administration and they want to say I'm an assistant minister, secretary of state. You have them at the government and your ministry, and you know it, we talked about it, so most of the colleagues were very angry. This is the reality in which Serbia lives today. If you accept this or an amendment to this type that we have submitted to previous members, we will believe that you have respected the strong arguments and that you have respected the reality in which the state administration in Serbia does not work, and for which you are absolutely responsible, not for failure, but for this whole segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9153	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I'm taking up your time as head of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9154	Thank you, Your Honor. I have listened very carefully to all these amendments, and what is key, which is being implemented by the applicant, is to introduce the mandatory knowledge of English. You know, that thing, it kind of became, and a general culture. It's hard to imagine today a finished student who doesn't speak English. It's something that's just become normal, but you can't bring it into the law. Imagine now if, for example, in France, in their law on civil servants, you stated that officials must be required to speak English. Well, it's impossible to introduce something like that. In this country, however, the official language is Serbian, at least still, I hope that it will not change, and the knowledge of all other languages, then you can now introduce, if someone is employed in an economic sector, because German is very much represented in the economy, well, then you can tell him – you must know German. We can go to infinity like that. Indeed, it is something you do not need to introduce. Perhaps, say, that you have submitted the amendment, so that somewhere it is desirable to be knowledge of English, but to introduce that obligation in a country where it is officially Serbian, it is illogical, and again, it is a matter of general culture and it is completely incomprehensible to me that today, in the 21st century, someone who has graduated from college and who is required of all this which, of course, is stated in the law that they do not know English, it would be completely out of my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9155	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9156	In this article, we're essentially looking for the same thing. So I don't repeat all the arguments I've made to you, I'm asking the Minister in charge, here present, who we really appreciate, yes, please accept all that we've said. We don't see, we don't hear the argument clearly why these provisions don't be specified, why they don't set clear, precise criteria. Let us once in our practice set precise criteria in the state administration, so it doesn't all be so fluid, you know, that it doesn't end, everything we're trying to reform in this country, in this way, as the distinguished colleague has explained before. The Prime Minister is learning and speaking four, five languages, and you're not going to introduce one, one, one. So what is it? Nothing, against the Prime Minister's four. Well, says a colleague -- it's impossible for someone to finish college, I don't believe there's one that doesn't know English. Just turn around in your MP group. Well, how can you be so separated from reality? I'm sure a fellow respected knows what I'm talking about. And I can't believe people buy diplomas, so they buy them, and I can't believe someone plagiarizes high academic calling, so it plagiarizes them. But these are people who are advisors, who work at the state administration. These people, right away, I said, "Dear fellow, these people already, I'm sure, they know that language a lot and they know how to work a computer, and then why don't we follow the life that's happening around us?" Why are we ignoring him? Let's confirm that. And then, if I were mean, and I'm not, I'm not really, I could say -- it doesn't suit most people to be specific, because they don't have good people who know languages and computer work. I could, and I won't. Then don't put it on someone from the opposition to imagine, so that's what he says, and then we fight. We don't want to argue with you, I just think this is a good thing for the state of Serbia and its administration. Please, my colleague, you know very well that you would have, let's say, passed, I'm not speaking to you personally, but you would certainly have met these criteria. Then why not let others have the same archaic attitude toward the people who will lead the state administration of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9157	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9158	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, to try to make a contribution to this very high-quality debate of my fellow opposition, but also to say that the precision of these views really does not exist in any law, in any country in developed countries. But this problem that definitely exists, which needs to be solved, there are colleagues who are absolutely right, and I think there is no dispute at all between us, is being solved by introducing clear procedures in the management and development of human resources in the institutions and organisations of the state administration, and then in these procedures you have both an analysis of work and the design of work and the planning of staff and recruitment and selection, which, people, has been used for decades in developed countries and in state administrations that try to be better, more productive and efficient. So, we need more to set up human resources development services in the state administration and its institutions, than we are going to go and legally specify this, which is absolutely not controversial and what is simply necessary, but when you define and define the procedure then there is no concern and there is no problem that someone who does not have the qualifications and, of course, has no skills that are needed, for which everyone has defined that they are normal, that in the 21st century they are absolutely necessary and that no one without such additional skills can work in the state administration, so neither the state administration can be better nor more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9159	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9160	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates quality, quality in every segment of our society, quality and state administration. There's nothing controversial about asking for greater knowledge. I also agree with what Mr Djukanovic said, that knowledge of computer work and knowledge of English is a matter of hygiene, that no one can go through school, and in the school system we have English as a mandatory language, it seems to me since the first grade of elementary school, knowledge on the computer, and I don't think any serious college can be completed without knowing at least that elementary computer work. I am in favour of opening a game, I am in favour of searching for more knowledge and more languages, because Serbia, and we have seen that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is in China today, that he was both in Berlin and Paris and in Washington and Moscow, and that he is looking for knowledge of much more than one, indeed, the most dominant, world language. However, what is being raised as a second question, perhaps more important and more difficult question, was in this National Assembly when other laws were passed, both in the eighth and ninth term, in particular. What bothered me at the time, and as far as your portfolio is concerned, it seems to me, Mrs. Widowsky, and those are laws about, say, the municipal police, and they're part of the state administration, as well as the bankruptcy laws. And when the party to the amendment was majority and proposed those laws, both in the Law on Bankrupt Directors and in the Law on Community Police, it seems to me to be a member of the 21st that says - that a municipal officer, or bankruptcy administrator, can be sentenced to prison sentence for up to six months. Is that right? Is it desirable to be a communal officer and to be sentenced to jail? Is it desirable to be a bankruptcy manager and to manage large assets and to be punished on a prison sentence for up to six months? Are those the values to be stood for? In the style of the legislator, if I want to be maliced, and I'm not, does that mean that the party proposing this amendment, which was then the legislator of the law, is a party that has no people, who are not convicted, for at least up to six months? In the same logic, I believe that it was not such a motive that was neither the amendment promoter, nor the motive for you as a legislator of this law, not to look for greater quality, but that quality is something that will measure how people will advance in the state administration. I also believe in your announcements that these laws are a alignment with the Labour Act and other laws, and that the fundamental reform of the state administration, which is necessary because of the problems that have been raised from the past, because of the excessive state administration, because of the lack of payment classes and many other things that are necessary for this very quality and good race, that you will be able to implement such a system of values in the future reform of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9161	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The People's MP Gordana Komic came forward. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: I am a party proposing. Replica, please. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic, looking for a right to a replica? Mr. Babic didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9162	He talks all the time about the Proposer's party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9163	But it's nothing negative. I can only give you my word using your time. Here you go. The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9164	Just to be clear. When speaking to a proposing party who has no one, who is not destined to place himself in certain places. The proposing party is called DS, me and my colleagues are proposing. So we're criminals. It's an ergo. So we're criminals. That's what the esteemed colleague said, because if we did, we'd put them in some places. Look, that's what a man who runs most of this assembly is, it's the best he can, from a government that's released over two and a half, three thousand convicted criminals, its members. That's what a man who, by his will, has made it impossible for the DS to specify the criteria, let's say, in terms of the physical security criteria, that no one who's been convicted can do. They didn't want to, and now a man says, "You have no one but to be judged." Watch this. It's a dangerous thesis. 66 DS members were arrested during your government. None of that, which I am very pleased with, is no longer in prison, no more convictions. None of them. If you're already waving at it, which isn't about MPs, but prosecutors and courts, which, of course, is untasteful, then at least be precise. We want justice and we want those who break the law to answer it. But I repeat and appeal and demand that it stop criminalising one segment of our society and one political organization. If you continue to do so, be sure that DS will respond equally to you, because there are cereals in your weeds too, and I feel sorry for that grain, a little bit of what's in your weeds, so that's why I'm holding back. But it's not working, it's no offense. Please, it's not an insult, it's an agrarian term.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9165	Mr. Stefanovic, let me just say it. I listen very carefully, but please let me just finish my sentence. Just please, the debate went quite correctly and professionally and in the spirit of this building. All I ask is that you respect the dignity of the National Assembly, that you choose words when you speak to political inexperiences. Please, if you can do this to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9166	Thanks for that. I really didn't want to offend anyone when I spoke through agrarian terminology. It is equally offensive and orderly driving for which my colleague has been punished and is equally offensive and pro-chromic water-heating court for which I have been warned. Excuse me, please. We listened to terrible things yesterday and the day before yesterday, so no one reacted. I'm not saying that you, Mr. Chairman, would at one point not even react, but don't react to something called wheat and weeds right now, which is a folk proverb. Now the opposition should still be guilty, and the previous speaker absolutely didn't say anything about the amendment, he was talking about political opponents. Is it true? Yes, it is. So, what now? What didn't you say? Go back to the amendment? You didn't say, but it was about us not having personnel, because maybe we're all being punished. Can you imagine that? We're being punished, we're a party to the tycoon, and the tycoons run you public enterprises. If you vote for yellow, you vote for tycoons. It's, uh, civvy, tycoons in SNS run by public enterprises. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is this a theme? Please, what is this? This isn't a topic, but this is the answer. This is the answer to the accusation that we are what you claim we are, and citizens are increasingly seeing that we are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9167	Mr. Stefanovic, please. Mr. Babiću, Mr. Stefanovic did not get the right to replicate using the time of the head of the parliamentary group. He's talking about the amendment. As chairman, I am making sure that the heads of the parliamentary groups are also political attitudes and we are a little more tolerated than when the MPs speak, but I would ask Mr Stefanovic to bring this discussion to an end. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9168	Thank you very much, and I'd like you to give me back about 20 seconds, just to use it all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9170	Once again, please, I request that we return to the DS amendment, or my colleague, who is identical, to try to correct the work of the state administration through that amendment, to specify the criteria that most colleagues agree with, we heard earlier. The basic question is – why is it a problem to specify that? If you agree, and I hear you agree, we also know that the minister agrees, which is why, why won't we say that people need to know English and have to know how to work a computer? Well, let them know in the municipal police, they won't miss anything. I see she's very popular now, as she is at the time of evil Gilas. Here, let's fix their work. Here, and their work to fix. Let's get along. You said that, let's get it declared to practical. That's all DS requires without intent to argue, because it's just a waste of time and resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9171	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9172	Mr. Chairman, I will remind you that you cannot remove the Rules of Procedure from this room. You cannot give right to the heads of Parliament's groups, even to me, to send political messages that will be outside the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to do so. You have the right and the only chance to respect the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, I think we're all equal before God and before the law. What is allowed for one, however small, is allowed for others, however large and vice versa. If someone says so, it offends almost 50% of the people who voted for the SNS. If someone comes out and says and hurts and insults 136 SNS MPs, let's just say 23 doctors, doctors. How many professors, the doctor sits in a parliamentary group, but the workers sit down and the farmers sit down. We are proud of every member and every member of the SNS because we are proud of the policy we are conducting. You feel, and we don't take this amendment, because we don't have enough personnel and that's allowed to someone, and those who have created the laws according to the tycoon, according to the will of the individuals, see Article 21. The law on the municipal police, that a municipal police officer in the state could be a convicted person. I'm not allowed to do this malice. By what criteria? By what? Do you think, and it is Christian, when you get one cheek to turn the other cheek, but it was enough to turn the cheek. This country has turned face enough. Enough for Serbian citizens to suffer, they suffered for 12 years. I know someone would love to have amnesia, to forget everything that's been done for 12 years. I won't allow amnesia, I'll talk about what's been done, or what hasn't been done in the last 12 years. But as chairman, I urge you to have the same criteria for all, to prevent insults, and when a reaction comes to action, someone gets out of here as an offended bride, I don't know which time, and I don't know which way he comes back. Just tell me what's allowed. The Serbian Progressive Party in this Parliament is doing its job, we fight, we are present, we talk about every amendment, we talk about every law. That bothers someone. Tell me if it's democracy for one side to come out and not be heard in this House. We're not gonna do it because we've been sent here by citizens of the majority will in the March elections, no matter how much someone didn't like it. Look at the laws that have been passed, look at the solution from these laws in total cohesion with common sense. What I was saying about both municipal police officers and bankruptcy managers, it's more of a government task to correct such laws and such anomalies. But if you ask us and expect us to keep quiet, no, we won't shut up, we'll do our job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9173	I thank Mr. Babic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. I'm sorry, I didn't know you were in the Rules of Procedure. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9174	People's MPs, respected Mrs. Udovici, respected guests from the ministry, Mr. Becicu, I believe that a member of 107 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly, is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is also respected by the way of addressing the chairman, or president of the National Assembly. You had an obligation, the Honorable Chairman, to protect yourself from previous speech, and thus to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. The chairman or president of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, is obliged to take care of the order at this session. It is even he who can allow someone or not allow someone to approach the speaker in the National Assembly, and the only person who can make warnings in this congregation is the chairman, or president of the National Assembly. In this case, Mr. Becic, it was you. I remind you that Mr Babic here gave you a warning earlier, which in my court, in a very difficult way, hurt your dignity as the chairman of the National Assembly, us as MPs in this National Assembly and the National Assembly as the most important institution in our constitutional system in general. I resent you missing out here now to warn Mr. Babic that he must not behave like that in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9175	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirović answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9176	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I think we have all agreed here and we agree that important places should be attended by people who are not party members. So we're all agreed to be people who are professional. And that's why I don't see any concern on either side whether certain conditions that are set before these candidates when they start a working relationship or apply for another job, will it matter which foreigners they belong to? And so I also wanted to understand this amendment of yours, in order to improve the conditions for the reception of certain candidates, not as a gateway for some who are members of one party, another or third party. Conditions set before candidates who apply for certain jobs should be in line with what is required for the job. Therefore, to tighten these conditions and put certain requirements that are not related to the workplace, I think it is out of the question and that this is not right. Why would the director of the municipal company, say in Grocko, have to know English or German? It doesn't matter what he does. It is normal, according to a colleague, that whoever graduated from college, or passed through a system of education, has enough knowledge about a foreign language or knowledge of a computer, but that does not have to be a condition for every kind of work. What does it matter to me? The biggest breach that's been made in all our companies is that we're missing control. There is not enough control, or people who are in certain management functions, are not in control, are not controlled enough and do what they want, however they want, and as much as they want in their term of office. When do we control them? Then when a certain set of furniture leaves that position, then a new one comes, then they remember to control them, to see what they did and how they did. In my opinion, the big problem is this control and we need to establish a system of control at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9177	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9178	I'd still like more on the amendment that I find inspiring and very interesting. A former colleague here, among other things, made one claim, like, which wouldn't all have the other and the same chance, so, if we, like, know English. You know, many of you sitting here, the distinguished colleague is, of course, younger, but many of you who sit there lived during our greatest son of the people and people, right? I don't remember any of you asking if our esteemed friend Tito knew English at the time. He was technically a locksmith, as I said, he shouldn't have that knowledge, but he was our greatest son of the people and of the people, you all swore to him and nobody asked if he knew English, although he played waltz and played piano. You've got as many statesmen as you want in the world today who don't even know any other language but their own language and simply don't even want to learn any other language. You'd probably discriminate with them here with this logic. We probably wouldn't get a job in our state service, as you understand. Knowledge of English and each other is a matter of elemental general culture. Today, in the 21st century, you can't do any work without somehow knowing English, especially if it's some highly qualified job. If you were to introduce something like this as an obligation, then you must also hire English-license professors in each of our national services to check knowledge, because, excuse me, if someone is going to write that they know English, that doesn't mean that he really knows English, maybe he lied. It is desirable in the competition to ask that question anyway. I believe that no one in the state service, especially what you say here, Mrs. Udovici, in the law itself, I truly believe that no one will ever be admitted unless at least there's a basic knowledge of English, but you can't introduce it as a legal obligation because in this country, at least still, I don't know if anyone will change, the official language is Serbian. Find me a single country in the world that introduced, unless, of course, I'm talking about some countries that are exotic islands, etc. but who introduced that her civil servant had to know a foreign language without putting her first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9179	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9180	Thank you. In addition, of course, to the amendment that I am one of the applicants, but given what we've heard in the O.R., as far as our request for work experience for the state administration and knowledge of English language and computers is concerned, only two remarks. First of all, no one here is afraid when someone yells, yells, so it can be done automatically, it's a folklore, but there's no such thing as an overstatement. Secondly, the president of the state, whether he is Comrade Tito or Tomislav Nikolic, is not a state administration, such as neither public or public enterprises. I'm glad we heard that in the argument, because it opens up a great space to talk, not only about whether or not we need English knowledge, but how much knowledge we lack for the firm attitudes we have about the provisions in the members of the law. The fact that all we wanted in these changes and additions is to support modernisation, development, professionalization of the state administration, has shown a few things. The first thing that's here from us people's MPs, most of it doesn't care what the government is. Secondly, most of them do not know how much they are in office, or are able to pass changes and amendments to the law and not know whether or not they are praising us or complaining about amendments to the laws they have objections to. We say - enable those who are officials, who are younger advisors, counselors, senior advisors, to be given a message to set a standard that implies seriousness in the work and requires knowledge for the work to be done. I am fortunate to have worked and been an associate of many civil servants and in the service of the National Assembly, of which I have only the words of praise and the highest marks, including the knowledge of language and high professionalism, which, since we are so open here, cover the ignorance of the political representatives of this country. Since part of the political folklore that has been legitimateized here by the attack on the chairman and by talking about what is going on, I will allow myself to share with you anecdotes about political representatives who do not speak English, nor know what is their job as political representatives, and fortunately there are senior advisers, commissioners, who do their job in an immaculate manner. In large numbers, such a composition is in the government as well. All we wanted to do was show our amendments that we know what these people know and thank you for what they've done so far and in the business of European integration and everywhere and to set the scale, to set the standard. As unusual as it may be, to discuss something you need to read about, to have an attitude is not enough to have confidence, to be allowed to interfere with the position of the president of the state and the utility with the state administration, there must be a lot of tolerance from those who have knowledge. If the choice is to yell, shit and unremembered behavior in front of the chairman is to warn those who know both English and what it says, you should keep your mouth shut, then I can only finish with the sentence I started, nobody here is afraid when someone yells. There should be a process here that it's a shame not to know and therefore our amendments to both English and computer knowledge, because it should be a shame not to know, not to be proud that you don't know, because you believe in something. In that sense, I've already told the Deputy Prime Minister, about the sector you're dealing with and what I'm sure you'll do in this sector as a reform, it's a lot better for you when in this room you seem to be experiencing something like an opposition attack than when you're being defended like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9181	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'd just say I didn't feel attacked by any speakers in this National Assembly. The consultant was just talking about my interpretation that we as chairman are trying to understand that the heads of Parliament are trying through their exhibitions to give a political message as well. He just had a different view of my interpretation. Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9182	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, no one should be afraid when someone yells, but neither should anyone be afraid when someone publicly conveys their ignorance. Mrs. Comic, there are two things. There is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9183	Mr. Martinovic, I apologize, only please do not address the other MP directly, but to me as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9184	So there is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and there is a legal theory. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if I am not mistaken, says in Article 4, that one of the basic political principles on which our constitutional and political system rests is the principle of dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial. The executive power is also called administrative authority. According to the Constitution, the President of the Republic is a state body. If it's not part of the administrative authority or the executive authority, tell me what it is. Legislative isn't safe, judicial authority isn't safe. So much for your knowledge of the Constitution. As for the legal theory, I can suggest that you read, for example, a textbook used in the first year, I think, of all the law schools in Serbia, a textbook by Radomir Lukic. I can recommend to you the famous book by Slobodan Jovanovic, our most important state-law theorist, "About the State - the foundation of a legal theory". So you can read the same thing with Slobodan Jovanovic and Radomer Lukic, which is that the head of state, whether the President of the Republic or the monarch, is part of the administrative government. As far as your amendment is concerned, what will never be clear to me is how did you who cheered and dressed this country until just two years ago today still do it, contrary to the will of the people, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, not remember to put all that into law when you were in power? How come English wasn't important when you were in power, and now it's important when it's in the power of the SNS? When you're in power, then a civil servant doesn't have to know he's working on a computer, and when the SNS is in power, he has to know he's working on a computer. It is not disputed here whether a large number of not only civil servants, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know the English language and work on the computer. Well, you should. Why? Because it will be easier to get a job, because it will make career progress easier, because his life will be easier and it is not at all controversial. What bothers the SNS is that you keep teaching us how to do something, and you've had 12 years of being able to show it at work. When undermining the line, chaos, robbery, crime, corruption, a fully-explained state of government, chaos in public enterprises. Wherever you turn, nothing good has been done and then you go to opposition and say – now that we are in opposition we know the right thing to do. Kovas prevented you from doing all these epochal projects for 12 years, which you now advise us to do? Yesterday we had a lesson on the Higher Education Act. Did that law bring SNS? Today we have a lesson about civil servants. Did that law bring SNS? Did the SNS mess with the state administration? Is it SNS's fault that you don't know how many people work in the public sector? Is it the SNS' fault that the Serbian Constitution says there are only three authorities in this country - legislative, administrative and judicial? Is it SNS' fault that Radomir Lukic and Slobodan Jovanovic wrote that the head of state is part of the administrative government? What are you talking about here? After all, you have a chance, I hope that time slowly leaks to you, in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia still to show all you know, all your genius ideas about how management should function, how public enterprises should function, how English language is known, how computer work works. All that you can still, I hope, for a very short time to point out in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. There, show with your regional secretaries, with your directors of the province's public enterprises. All of your epochal ideas can still be carried out in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Do you carry them out? No, I don't. In Novi Sad, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and respected citizens of Serbia are now in action, the political market, because the DS, as our people would say, is afraid of choices. He can do anything. It could all fall apart, anything could turn upside down, just don't hold elections in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I can do this kind of personal solution, I can do it with Chanka, I can do it for NDS, I can do it with SVM. He can do anything. I just can't make the election. The Serbian Progressive Party, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, has set out to reform part by part of social life. The laws we are talking about today and the laws that will be passed today are part of this government's reform policy. We would all like the reforms to be completed in 24 hours and to say on 1 January 2015 – Serbia is by all standards, legal, political and economic such as Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, etc. This is not possible not because of us, but because of the heritage we have received, which is difficult, which is burdensome, which is burdened with many problems. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of all these laws that are on the agenda because they are a small step, but an important step in reforming our entire state, including the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9185	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9186	I'd just like to react briefly. I really respect my colleague on the other hand, but I can't just take the impression and I'm afraid, I don't really know if I heard right. It seems that, at least from her interpretation, it doesn't matter if the language is known by the president of the state or by some of our diplomats, but it's important whether a municipal worker in Futoga or in Grocko knows English here. That's pretty much the logic. You know, it's no wonder diplomacy's been a disaster for us all these years. We had really early in 2000 certain ambassadors who didn't know any languages. They're simply sent somewhere along the escort line. It's really something that's a disaster, but if someone doesn't care about the criteria that our diplomat knows more languages, and that the communal worker would have to know English, then something really weird is happening here. I believe you've made a lapus, but simply, obviously, what kind of politics you've been running all these years, it seems to me it wasn't a lapus after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9187	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9188	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like all citizens of Serbia, especially young people, to know English, and it seems to me, I somehow came to Novi Sad in 1957, so the student homes were full and then studied and studied without speaking today. There were competitions in socialist society. There was no English anywhere, nor was there a large school sought, and the economy flourished. We've come to this society today to search for English and for a porter in some company, which is not bad to know, but it can't be in competition. We've seen again in the last 12 years that we've been led by people who know both English and great economists known around the world, we've ruined the country. What do we do with you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9189	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The word has been given by the MP head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A little clarification. I see there's a lot of confusion going on here in the O.R. We're absolutely on your side. We give you full support to overcome quarrels and overcome pressures that advancers cruelly apply to you all the time. I must add, in order to clarify, the invitation of late Professor Lukic to Slobodan Jovanovic, also the deceased, is absolutely inappropriate in this context. Yes, it is true that they stand at the top of the state administration pyramid, but they are chosen. These are criteria for civil servants and these criteria do not apply to public utility workers in Futoga, as you said, in any case. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: She said just now.) No, she didn't say that. She said, my esteemed colleague Gordana Komic said that one thing when choosing someone in the elections, and another thing is when someone is working in the state structure, and you, your colleagues were talking about public utility companies. I don't want to name a man, I respect him, but he talked. He could have said, say, in Majdanpek, the man who runs the culture center. It's part of the administration. The director of the Centre for Culture is a certain Mr. Brandusanovic, who is a machine technician. Here, he runs a culture, say, in Majdanpek. Does he believe in the future presented to him? I have to add that what we're trying to do with this amendment and all these amendments isn't to go into continuous debates with most of what doesn't exist, and that's a disagreement, because I see they agree. We are trying to convince the honourable minister to accept these amendments, to remove arbitration, to remove the bad practice that exists at all levels, to remove these harmful things that are abundant in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9191	Thank you. You're out of time. I gave you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9192	I'm done with another sentence. I ask you to respect what we are trying to achieve through this amendment, not to tell us about Vojvodina, and not to tell us about political matters, which you allow, Mr. Chairman, and shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9193	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9194	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to ask you to talk about the amendment. Forty-five minutes we talk about English, about culture and not culture, and about the proposal for amendments to adopt it, and in the amendment it writes nicely – Article 8 is deleted. I'm talking about Miss Jerkov's amendment, if anyone didn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9195	I think Mr. Bojanic is right. We're talking about an amendment to Article 8, which was filed by Mr. Alexander Jerkov. We haven't reached Article 9. Only now do we go to the amendment to Article 8, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Prior to that, the word has been made by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly, has been injured. I really don't understand what any director in the Majdanpek municipality has to do with the amendment we're talking about right now. If we're going to talk like that, then I can now get a list of the president of the municipalities, the director of public enterprises by local self-government in the DS order, and see what these people have or don't have from school. I can read to you the biographies of certain regional secretaries, their deputies and assistants. Where's that gonna take us? If you want to talk about the agenda, then the same rules should apply to both SNS and DS MPs. I understand that some painful defeat in Majdanpek, or victory of the SNS, but it can be shown outside the Assembly Hall, and not that, when we talk about one amendment, it is said – this and that director in Majdanpek have it from school. What difference does it make? It is something that should not be tolerated in the work of the National Assembly. Otherwise, the practice here became, as soon as you catch DS MPs speaking false or not knowing the Constitution and legal theory, they say – we didn't say that. They did, they said. Here's the thing completely clear. The law is good. We will vote for the law and we will manage to reform Serbia. It's gonna be hard, it's gonna be painful, but we're gonna make it. There's no other alternative. It's very clear to the citizens. To whom it is unclear, let him see the results in Majdanpek.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9197	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Do you want to apply the amendment to Article 8, which was submitted by the MP Alexander Jerkov?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9198	Of course. The fact that I mentioned in the previous presentation should obviously be repeated with consultation and stenograms. So, the state administration and all of this we are discussing, whether we accept the amendment of Alexander Jerkov's MPs or some of our amendments that we have signed as another group of MPs, does not apply to municipal enterprises. That's what I said. It's not the first time he's planted himself and lied about what the MP said. I have the experience of the chairman's sentence, since the MP said my name and said an insult, which was seen in a stenogram and apologized later in the hallway, but it was left that my name was not mentioned, that the insult was not spoken and that I didn't hear it well. It doesn't matter what the contents of the political folklore we share here. It is important to understand what a huge role good government will play in the years to come. That's the only reason why we insist on setting high standards and why we don't agree to belittled in writing the government's arguments, nor agree to feel when we hear arguments, which have nothing to do with amendments and additions to the Laws that are in the Assembly in order to comply with the Law on Higher Education, and are not harmonised, because the Law on Higher Education says otherwise, and which on our proposal to know English and know computers, the work on computers, has general consent, but will happen sometime. We say, if it's gonna happen sometime, it better happen now. Nothing more, nothing less. Repeatedly, the president of the DS Parliament Club, Borislav Stefanovic, is full of support for Mr. Becic. It's no small matter when the opposition gives you support for other MPs' non-business behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9199	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Udovici, the honored guest, Mr. Becic, I agree with you that this debate on amendments should run correctly, but it cannot run properly, I think, unless Minister Udovici here today wishes to explain why she considers her proposal to be more comprehensive, in this bill, compared to our proposal. So it's not enough to say - I think it's more comprehensive. Then you're asking yourself as one unhinged authority, Mrs. Widowski, and then I think our job here is to ask a little question about that authority. For example, our amendment to Article 8. We have suggested that attitude 2 be changed and that it reads: "For the work on the job of a younger associate, a civil servant must have acquired a higher education in basic academic studies in the range of at least 180 ECPB points", that is to say, "basic vocational studies or studies up to three years of age and completed a traineeship or at least three years of employment in state bodies". We offered our reasons. We didn't put this in our amendment for reasons -- we're proposing this because it's more celery. Of course, it is understood that we consider this to be more celery, but we have written that working on the work of a younger associate is enough for the candidate to have three years of employment in the state bodies, instead of five as foreseen by this proposal, and then to focus your attention on Article 35. Law on civil servants. In your explanation of this amendment, tell us like this – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment 10. Now I have to go back to Amendment 10. He's leading me to fullness, purpose. So there's not even a shred of desire to explain some things here. I don't understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9201	Thank you, Professor. Pavic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted the 8th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9202	Dear citizens, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Chairman, Article 45 of Article 2 is amended and it is said - in addition to this, high education is also needed in basic academic studies in the range of at least 240 ECPB points, master of academic studies, specialist academic studies, specialist professional studies, or basic studies of at least four years of age, or specialist studies at university, at least 10 years of professional experience, English language knowledge and computer skills. What we think is that working in a position takes at least 10 years of work experience in the profession, and of course you know that, Madam Minister, since this is not the first time you've had contact with the state administration. Given the responsibility for doing the jobs and knowledge that is needed, and this is achieved with years of work in the profession, which is also part of your experience. In order to improve the quality of the work of a civil servant, especially as a result of the ongoing EU accession process, a state official should also have knowledge of English language and computer skills in addition to the conditions laid down in the bill. We can assume that some secretaries at the Foreign Ministry know they're working on a computer, but we're quite certain, from the information we own, that many of them don't know, for example. English, which raises doubts about the quality on which they perform their duties. What is also part of our proposal and part of the amendment we have proposed is what your former counterpart, Minister Krstic, has suggested, that several tens of thousands of people from the ruling majority in the state administration have been employed over the past two years. Since about 100,000 people are going to be out of work, we think it's very important to include this ten-year experience in the profession in addition to all the criteria. I'm free to assume, but I can't argue, I'm saying it here openly, that those who aren't employed, I'm sorry, who have been employed in the last two years by the state administration, I suppose, but I'm not saying, that less than 90% of those who come from the ruling majority. We underline that for the more efficient work of the state administration, it is necessary to introduce these criteria, for the reasons that in the last two years we have been faced with something called the expansion of the people of the ruling majority who have suffocated the state administration, first of all, by their numbers, by various diplomats who have been stationed lately, and without what is necessary for the state administration to function properly, which is work in the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9203	The amendment to Article 9 was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9204	Therefore, the proposed Article 10 provides that instead of advertising public competitions in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" future jobs are advertised on the Internet presentation of the authorities of the state administration that fills the workplace, on the Internet presentation of the Staff Management Service, on the web portal of the E-Government, on the advertising board and on the internet presentation of the periodic publication of the National Employment Service ad. It's a little bit to say that I was surprised by the content of the proposed law. "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" was the only official vote by the Republic of Serbia. The "Official Messenger" publishes laws, regulations, rules, other acts, so I don't think there's anything more logical than public competitions for those jobs where the employer is the Republic of Serbia. This is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia looks more confident in the periodic release of the National Employment Service ad than it trusts its "Official Messenger". I am surprised by the fact that the advertising board, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has practically won the official vote, so I wonder – why don't you cancel that "Official Messenger" when it bothers you so much? No ballots are printed there, no competitions for job openings are published. Obviously, this "officer official" has lost the trust of the current government, so I wonder why it still exists? Then why do we not publish the laws, regulations, regulations on advertising boards, but do we do so in the “Official Messenger”? So we have no objection to the fact that, in addition to many of these internet presentations, the various bodies involved in the public advertising process are, but we believe that the only reliable, secure and logical publication of competitions for those jobs, where the employer of the Republic of Serbia, should also be in the "Official Messenger" of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9205	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Milena Bicanin, Ljiljana Nestorović and Dr. Muamer Bačevac. The government and the judiciary, state administration and local self-government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9206	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, if we have in mind that our common goal is more efficient and productive state administration and all colleagues have agreed that in the state administration we should but in the coming period to hire the most qualified, best with knowledge, of course foreign languages, computers and all aspects needed to carry out quality and meaningful jobs, then we must bear in mind that as many people as possible should be informed and have available information about potential, free jobs and opportunities for employment in the state administration. Since I'm thinking as an economist, and you're in this area very good and with great experience, I don't have this clear parameter quantitative how many people know about the portal e-Government, for the Human Management Service portal, especially for the National Employment Service portal. I'm talking about people who are in the private sector, because I'm saying that if we want to develop competition, if we want the best people, we have to draw some kind of private sector people who would be kind of interested in working in the public sector and, of course, in what needs to be the goal, speed it up. It is certain that some other portals and I am not far from thinking that they would do this service for free, you have why not to “Infostud” and other portals where exclusively or in a large percentage of private sector people inform about potential and free jobs. If we had the opportunity to compare the interest and number of departures to those portals, the National Employment Service and so on. I am telling you that 80-90% of people in the private sector do not know, in fact, that there is a website and that new jobs are being advertised on the Human Management Service site, but that is why they know other portals that are market-developed and where the actual private sector recruits and selects the personnel it needs. If we want to develop competition, if we want to develop a market, why don't we also give these market principles the opportunity for that private sector to reach potential jobs and the possibility that as many people and as many people as possible, the greater the percentage of people find out and compete for a place in the state administration. Of course, it is very difficult for top-notch private sector personnel to move into the public sector. It is a very small percentage of them, but I hope that as a country and I hope that you as a competent resolution minister will create this environment together with your colleagues and your team, the public sector will be competitive in this sense, in this sense, to attract people from the private sector, because, as you well know, working in the state administration, in public administration, in developed countries, with developed economies, with an efficient public sector, it is precisely something more than just proof and advancement in its career, which is what, for example, in the United States, is the most important thing, and that is to do something, it contributes to its country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9207	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9208	This proposed amendment is somewhere a natural extension to the amendment tabled under Article 10 of the proposed law. We believe that deadlines have to be calculated from the moment the competition is announced in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and not in the periodic publication of the National Employment Service ad. I must once again point out that "The Official Messenger" is the only official message of the Republic of Serbia and that it is quite unusual, to say that the Republic of Serbia has no confidence in the message of which it is the founder, but to use the advertising tables and some portals that can be, to follow the way of advertising but certainly not the primary and exclusive way of advertising competitions, not only for greater availability, because if the goal is to really encourage quality and professional and educated people to work in the state administration, then it is necessary to do everything in order to increase the availability of job advertising in the state administration. This reminds everyone of a closed system, where it will be quite difficult for someone who is professional and qualified, who is out of the state administration system at all to have any knowledge of the existence of jobs, deadlines where they can apply to job openings and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9209	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9210	Just to mark this historic day, that the amendment of the New Party MPs has been adopted. I would like to thank the vice president, the minister and her team for finding and understanding and courage for such an act. I hope it becomes a tradition, to quote one bad politician. In further work on this set of laws, we are expected to be given this additional explanation of the wholeness, or purpose. We think it is important for us as MPs, but also for the Serbian public who should get the opportunity to assess what is more meaningful with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9211	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have now moved on to that part of the amendment that we MPs of the New Party, which the government has not accepted, but which is also offered an explanation that is not only about the finding that something meaningful is either complete or appropriate. I'm expressing one satisfaction that this is the case, but I still think our proposal, Mrs. Widowsky, was more consistent. Just to let you know what our motion for change was. We thought Article 13 should change. I'm not going to read everything, because he's a bigger member, so I'm just going to tie myself to the part where we've made a concrete change. We have proposed that within the framework of Article 67a, which is one of the new members who are added after Article 67, the following shall be held in this third part: an internal, or public competition for the completion of the position on which the performer is appointed, announced within 15 days of the day of the appointment of the performer. We therefore felt that the 15-day deadline, instead of the draft law prescribed 30, was fully sufficient to advertise this internal, or public competition to fill the position in which the performer was appointed. You have explained here that the amendment is not accepted since the 30-day deadline is more appropriate and that this solution provides for a better, more efficient and continued implementation of the state administration. Now I'm going back to the beginning. It's true that we've come out of that celery trap, purpose and suitability, but instead when we put it - it's going to be more quality, more efficient and continuous, we still don't know how you think it's going to happen. We believe that these 15 days, Mrs. Udovici, have been enough, and that this amendment, as well as the amendment to Article 12, should have been taken to the satisfaction and benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9213	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9214	Thank you. So, the proposed amendment to Article 13, in the same way as the previous amendment, we propose that public competitions and internal competitions to fill the situation be advertised within not less than 30 days but within 15 days. I wonder what modern and efficient state administration we can talk about if it takes the state administration 30 days to prepare and announce a competition? What kind of administration isn't able to do within the time limit of e.g. For 15 days, do you have a contest for yourself and publish it? I can't even think about what time the effort and energy is the same as that state administration then it needs to act at the request of another authority, service, or, God forbid, citizen, because if the state administration isn't able to do for itself within 15 days for something its interest and its need to prepare and publish not doctoral work, but competition, then I wonder, what can citizens of the same state administration expect? No one should then be asked why citizens do not trust the work of the state administration and the state administration, because the deadlines prescribed by the state administration for themselves are inappropriately long, do not correspond to either the type, nor the complexity of the work that consists in the mere creation of text, competition and publication of it on the advertising board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9215	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from NDS and I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 adding new members of 67a and 67b, and in the next sense - firstly, we have suggested that the title be changed above Article 67a, so that it is – The appointment of a civil servant in office, because we believe that this title is more complete. Furthermore, we have proposed that amendments be made in point 1 of this Article, so that the position 1 may, until the appointment of a civil servant in a position of office, be appointed as acting as a civil servant in a position (hereinafter referred to as: the acting official of office). ). In addition to the changes in the text itself, this would mean erasing words – for six months, without internal or public competition. Then we suggested adding a new position of 2 – the official of duty is placed without competition within 15 days of the day of the appearance of the reason for which the position is unfulfilled to the period until the appointment of a civil servant to a position, or for a maximum period of six months. In the present position 2, after the words – a person can be appointed as a person who, we suggest, is a civil servant and, in paragraph 3, to be replaced by number 15. The proposed amendment provides for an extension of the name above the member, namely the precise indication that this member is governed by the institution of the acting civil servant in office. As a result of the reasons set out in the proposal for a bill, which states that the proposal to introduce a new member which regulates the appointment of the performer provides conditions for the work and functioning of the public administration authority in the period until the appointment of a civil servant is in place in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Service Act, we believe that it is necessary to regulate more precisely in which cases and on which period the performer of a civil servant may be appointed, especially when having regard to the responsibility of the performer of his duties. In addition, we believe that it is necessary for the performer to be appointed from the ranks of civil servants because it provides for more efficient work by the authorities, a person who knows the work of the state administration is appointed. We know that the work in the state administration is specific, that it is seeking to know the entire system and the organisation of the work of the state administration, in addition to the narrowness of the job description, and therefore the person who is from the state administration who already knows the system of work could fit in faster and start doing their jobs. Secondly, at the same time, it would prevent the possibility of corrupt behavior, i.e. setting up a face without competition, which could otherwise compete only in a public competition. This is particularly important when it comes to seeing that the law itself provides for a conflicting application of several ways of putting into place precisely given that civil servants have an advantage given the working experience of persons who do not have such experience. The amendment also provides for a reduction of the deadline for calling the competition for 15 days because we believe that 30 days for calling the competition is inappropriately long and I urge you to reconsider this proposal once again because it is obvious that several amendments from different fellow MPs from different parties suggest a reduction of this deadline and all the time we are talking about the need for reforming the state administration and making it more effective, so I think that a reduction of this deadline should really take into account and that you should reconsider accepting it. This amendment has been rejected by the Government with a reason that the draft law extends the circle of persons who could be placed in office as acting officials and creates the possibility that experts from other areas can be appointed alongside state officials, and in order to function more effectively and better. In addition, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government considers that the 30-day deadline for advertising an internal, or public competition to fill the situation is more appropriate and comprehensive. We are of the opinion that the argument given by the Government on the rejection of this amendment is least said unacceptable. First of all, the performer cannot be placed in a position in the capacity of the performer. The position implies certain rights and duties, and the performer is appointed for what his term says is, the performance of his duties. The official of duty should only perform ongoing tasks until a civil servant is placed in office. Furthermore, it is very dangerous for the government to thus expand the circle of persons who can be appointed as performers of duty. In fact, the law itself provides for different ways to place civil servants in a position, depending on whether civil servants or non-state officials compete in a position. It is predicted that non-state officials can be placed in a position only through public competition, and this solution wants the government to place persons in positions through the form of officials who otherwise could not be set up differently, but through a public competition. In addition, it is not clear what is stated in the government's explanation. Why is it believed in advance that experts from other areas, who have no experience in the work of the state administration, can provide more efficient and better functioning of state authorities? Does this mean that the government thinks that there are currently not enough professional people in the state administration who could be placed in office or not enough party personnel for such functions? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9217	I thank Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9218	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Udovici, dear guests from the ministry, shall be subject to the deadline prescribed by the Head and the other competent person to inform the High Official Council and the Staff Management Service of the reasons for not being offered to the Government of the candidate for office. The proposal sent by the Government, which you, Mrs. Udovici, defend here today, states that in Article 71(2), etc., that a 30-day deadline is given to carry out what I was just talking about. We believe that a 10-day period is more meaningful, more comprehensive, more appropriate, or appropriate. In addition to that attitude that we consider this deadline more appropriate, we offer the principle of efficiency. I guess in 10 days, you can do that thing, so we can show that in some departments, in some parts of the apparatus, there's a focus on doing something effectively? Why waste time, leaving for 30 days now, waiting 30 days to set up a notice? You wrote to us here in an explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the government considers the deadline from the proposed solution appropriate. I'm telling you, he's not fit. It is appropriate to use the principle of efficiency here, to agree on a proposal that goes into law. Suitable, it says here, which fits the requirement, convenient. I think it's more appropriate for me now than it is for you, but it does, it says -- how appropriate it is, how, etc., smiled with an appropriate situation. It's like they wrote a Serbian dictionary for you, Mrs. Udovici, about this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9219	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9220	Thank you. And our amendment refers to a member of the amendment and addition of the law, already spoken of by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Vladimir Pavicevic, therefore, about the deadline that the government is giving itself to solve the problem v.d. I'm the manager of whatever. We have different ideas, of course, each one is shorter than 30 days. What's interesting is the explanation the government sends to the National Assembly, so to all of us, for reasons not to accept our amendments. For our amendment, where we ask that within 15 days of the submission of the list of candidates, to be 15 and not 30, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of Amendment 26. Amendment 26 is marked as an amendment to the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and the argument sent by the government to them on Amendment 26 – that the amendment is not accepted because the government considers the deadline from the proposed solution appropriate, an explanation, that I do not read further, which was given to fellow amendments, which were explained by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I said something about this when I was talking about my intention to make enough pressure as the National Assembly to read the Resolution on the Legislative Activity of the National Assembly and my obligations under that resolution, as it took time for the Government to read the unique methodological rules adopted by the National Assembly, in what form and what everything must contain the bill to be in the procedure of the National Assembly. Almost, well, unfortunately, I say this more with a dose of cynicism than I think it is quite right, in the Resolution on the Legislative Activity of the National Assembly there is no provision that the Assembly will not discuss any draft law that the Government has deafened on the Resolution. I'm saying it's one dose of some cynicism, because I know how executive power works and how the National Assembly should function. If we do not have a written explanation in any of the following draft laws, then we will have to have a reaction to the legislative body. I also know that the always ruling coalition, whoever did, believes that its first task is to defend the government as the best of all, is legitimate and legal, and that will be done by every ruling coalition. What's wrong with it is that it gets out of the mind of what's being done in such a defense of this kind of argument as damage to the house where we work together, because it's our equal, second function, which is control and control of executive authority, completely pushing down the list of priorities. It is not good for any government or for any congregation. So, if there is a reason why the Government considers a 30-day period more appropriate, celery or, as it is written here, that the proposed solution is appropriate, then the Government would have to refer to the MP who proposes the amendment to explain why it is appropriate. This is how the Messenger reads. I don't care what you think of my solution. It's good for neither the government nor the MP can be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9221	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Just to let you know that you no longer have the time of the parliamentary group, I've even given you about ten seconds more. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9222	This point concerns the deadline within which the Government is due, i.e. the employment of the person who passed the contest, who was elected to the competition and in the Government's proposal is 30 days, and in our proposal, the deadline is 15 days. The government's answer is not to accept the amendment, because the government believes the deadline it proposes is more appropriate and comprehensive. I think it would be very interesting for the Serbian public, and for us, too, personally, why is a 30-day period more comprehensive and appropriate than 15 days, when a candidate is elected for a place, for a function? What's the problem in those 15 days that any government, let alone this hyperactive, according to the Government, can't do it in two weeks, but it takes 30 days? What reason is that? There are some rules in Serbian tradition that are about days, there are those 40 days, but I can see that's not suggested, fortunately. By adopting our proposal, by shortening the deadline by 15 days, which puts that deadline in order to be appropriate and consistent, I think that would give us an improvement in this law and I think it's the right opportunity for you to accept our amendment at this point and thus improve the law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9223	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9224	Thank you. As I said a little bit during the previous amendment, I think that when the state administration has to decide on certain matters concerning its work, its organisation, appropriately, comprehensively, and what is already stated in the government's arguments, it should make the deadlines as short as possible. So, I really don't think that 30-day deadlines are appropriate, nor that they are celery, as far as the internal organisation of the state administration is concerned, and the filling of jobs within that administration itself. Indeed, the question arises that if the state administration needs a 30-day deadline, not a 15-day deadline, which was common in the past and should be in the future, for something of interest and the need of a state administration, then the question arises – what can citizens expect from the same state administration, within which deadlines the state administration will decide on their demands, protect their legal interests, satisfy their legal needs, if it itself needs a 30-day deadline. It is a strong message about the impunity and tromitude of the state administration, or, as one colleague from the ruling party said, about the widespread state of affairs in the state administration. Now, this sends a message that the situation is spread out. Because I'm saying, if the 15-day deadline is too short for the state administration, I honestly doubt that we're going to have a modern, efficient and up-to-date state administration...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9225	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Time's up. The 16th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government has not accepted amendments in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has not accepted amendments with corrections. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that amendments with corrections are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Vienna, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Guests, I have two things to mention here. First, we have an incredible situation, that some MPs submit an amendment to the same text as we do. We are answered not to accept the amendment for reasons of suitability and consistency, and Mrs. Komic is replied that the amendment is not accepted only for reasons of celery. I wondered why the treatment of one of the MPs was so different in the same text as the other MPs? I conclude that our amendment and amendment, Mrs Comic, is comprehensive, but also that Mrs Comic's amendment is appropriate, or at least more appropriate than ours. And then I wonder: if this is a situation, then why is Mrs. Comic's amendment not accepted, for example? For example, in Article 16(3), we have suggested that this attitude be deleted, because a coin is introduced that creates, in our court, a terrible possibility of abuse and arbitration, which is - public trust may be a criterion on which someone will now be removed from a position. Look, it looks to me like if we let him chair the National Assembly, or president of the National Assembly, he says -- I say it's something, and that he says something about what he doesn't use the Rules of Procedure, but himself, he just follows his will. I believe that we do not need to introduce it into any law, and that is why we have suggested that this position in Article 16 be completely deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9227	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I have come to the attention that citizens know what the amendment promoter has proposed in relation to the bill. So it's about the amendment to Article 16. Article 16 is amended as follows: The government has suggested that a civil servant be resolved from office and if his working relationship ceases due to a sentence of at least six months, a final solution if he is given a disciplinary sentence of termination of the employment relationship to the final solution if he is given a degree of dissatisfaction... etc. Furthermore, the Government has proposed that the civil servant be resolved from the position if the authority or body responsible for its appointment accepts the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protectors for its resolution, i.e. if it accepts an initiative to resolve on the basis of a public publication measure, a recommendation for a resolution given by the Anti-Corruption Agency. The third point is that a civil servant who manages the public authorities is resolved from a position where the authority or body responsible for its establishment determines that there has been a serious disturbance in the work of the national authority at the time of its management. Therefore, the amendment promoter has proposed that this member be deleted and that civil servants become sacred cows, untouchable, that they cannot be resolved even though they are sentenced to a term of six months, that they cannot be resolved even if the Anti-Corruption Agency recommends it, etc. Why does the amendment promoter protect so many civil servants, it can explain the party that proposed this kind of amendment? Someone at all costs to the public authority, someone who, on behalf of the state, exercises power, someone who is on a state's manger and has quite decent salaries, unlike those who work in the real sector, someone who has far more past work, because it is harder to change jobs and employers, someone who is in a far more favourable position, someone who receives a salary twice a month, someone who wants to protect him from even losing his job if a prison sentence of at least six months and so on is recommended by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Whoever suggested this amendment does not have in me any purest intention or has something in his biography to help civil servants protect them from possible dismissal because of the mistakes they have made to the harm of the state, and often for the benefit of those they work for. So we have a situation that the public service has become a safe house and that many civil servants view it as the basis from which they move towards blue envelopes for political parties and for themselves personally, which should complement their budgets and budgets of parties. The legislator quite rightly suggested that in such situations it could be reacted, however, the amendment promoter does not want that to happen. So he wants civil servants to be untouchable, that they can do jobs that will make public service their private businesses. So what should be a public job becomes the private business of a civil servant who performs that function or becomes a public official, for his minister and for several civil servants. We have a position that the people of the Department of Veterans who had a salary of, I don't know, 600-700 euros a month have an apartment next to the 120-square Arena, and we can't figure out how the civil servant is doing with his honest work, so since academically educated, academically congratulations, he's come up with such a kind of capital, or that kind of apartment that costs, I don't know, 250,000 euros, so he would have to spend a three- or four of his official lives to get that apartment. So, the amendment promoter wanted to prevent, in any case, any possibility of firing officials who had public authority and who, apparently, were convicted, if the Anti-Corruption Agency said – you know what, a 120-square apartment appeared, such a civil servant should be fired. The amendment promoter said - it is deleted, the law does not apply. So, Officer, the civil servant is a holy cow, that's not to be touched. Well, then I say, what happens to a public servant who makes such a kind of failure so I'll write down what kind of one. 11th on a 52-hectare plot that the tenant has user rights even though he only made a seven-day contract later? What do you do with such a civil servant who, for such a kind of public id, is based on whom someone withdraws 525,000 euros and someone now signs an amendment that such a civil servant cannot be fired? What to do with a civil servant who receives a grant application on August 15th with bills, now be careful, follow closely, 2007. August 15th, someone submitted a request with complete documentation and accounts on the planting of vineyards, and the accounts were from October and November 2007? On August 15th, someone attaches an account from 2007, in August 2007 add an account from November 2007? Apparently, that account was set up, falsified, and something else, that civil servant didn't notice that the company that received the subsidy had filed the account of another company of the same owner. Therefore, the person who took the subsidy has added the invoice for the slaughter and the vineyard to the account of his other firm, which is called "Empresa", has added that it would be the basis for obtaining the subsidy, and the owner of the company that receives the subsidy and owner of the company that issues those accounts on 15 August with the date of November 2007 that the civil servant receives such an correction and does nothing to refuse the subsidy. What do you do with a public servant who is in the Ministry who issues this kind of wine subsidy planted for five years even though the tenant does not have the consent of the same Ministry of Investment Investments? The abuse of that public servant is obvious. In the end, the public servant, who did not see all these public documents, who was abused, eventually built a house with a pool in India. How's that? So, if the Anti-Corruption Agency of such a public servant, who has now moved from one public sector to India to a public enterprise, so if someone finds such a rewarding public servant, we cannot resolve it even though the Anti-Corruption Agency recommends it in line with the solution recommended by the Government. The amendment promoter for strange reasons, and I have already stated what they are, wants this member deleted with an amendment that reads, is deleted, and that in every way protects those who have allowed him and themselves to illegally reach enormous capital. So, that's the academic congratulation that the proposer advocates, which convinces us that some technical types of amendments are 10 days, 15 days instead of 15-10, instead of 30-25, instead of the comma-stamp, and suddenly a key amendment appears tucked in nicely, which in the article, for Article 16, right, reads - the amendment provides for Article 16. The law - is deleted. The public servant is untouchable, holy cow, and you dear citizens who do not have that kind of protection lie in front of the counter and pray to God that a public servant in the third, even the fourth time you come here, will solve your case. I repeat, there are no officials, or more people, but behind the counter, and nowhere else we feel smaller than in front of the counter, because these civil servants simply, if you don't share with them, in the way I've already described, the money, in which case, public officials expect you to kneel and lie down in front of the counter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9229	Thank you. Mr. Professor Dr. Pavicevic, on what basis are you answering? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By amendment. Then you're not up to the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Why didn't I get the word? ) Because Mrs. Comic called before you did. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: All right. ) Here you go, Mrs. Comić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9231	Thank you. So, before I explain the amendment submitted in the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of my colleagues and I, to say the amendment. The amendment also reads Article 16(3). ‘It shall be deleted’. When you read such an incredibly complicated and long text of the amendment, then it is much easier to talk about the amendment, but the party of verbal violence and political folklore and the failure of the chairman to explain that it is much easier to read than to speak by heart, it cannot prevent a process that, as it is said in my juicecuk – different conceptrs tend to. It's the one who doesn't know anything about anything, doesn't read about it, but he has a very firm attitude about everything, he's proud of it, and he's happy to tell it. I am pleased to hear such an attitude, because the amendment reads in Article 16(3) "It is deleted". So not point 1, not point 2, not Article 16, but point 3. But to every one of your words of pride and never forget. Why is this attitude “wipe out ”? Because we were in this Assembly in July 2012, when due to a man named Dragutin Radosavljevic, we passed a law with a member who was valid for 40 days, as MP Zoran Zivkovic mentioned for 40 days, it is not exactly, but it is convenient to use it, so as to remove him from the post of director of the Tax Administration in which he was elected after the competition and never to be essentially elected his successor Ivan Simic. Madam Prime Minister, you have a problem, as Dragutin Radosavljevic, because of such laws as this law, has no solution to be resolved, as neither Mr Simic has the solution to be set. Our request to delete this attitude is in your favor, and it is fun to listen, of course, to those who want to tell whatever they say, and it does not matter. Thank you, Chairman, for the 10 seconds you gave me last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9232	Thank you. He answered for the word, using the time you have in those five minutes, Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Chairman of Becic, Honored Madam Udovici, Honored Guests, just before we had one truly incredible situation over our debate on our amendment to Article 16(3), that SNS MPs applauded the MP, who in his speech showed that he had not even read our amendment, and that he dared to comment and judge our amendment. If it's a SNS bang, then I'm not surprised that, for example, yesterday, the principle of academic integrity in this assembly didn't go through.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9234	Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9235	Here's to show in the amendment, the Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9236	I'm going to ask you first, the debater who discussed it is not a member of the SNS and you can't allud it to the SNS. Secondly, I will not allow you to turn your address by amendment into a replica, please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9237	Of course. I said the MPs of the Progressive Party applauded. So, the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, have proposed an amendment to Article 16(3) to delete only Article 16(3). We have not, gentlemen, suggested that a member be deleted in full. We have suggested that this Article 3 item be deleted and that Articles 1 and 2 remain with the bill. This is what respected gentlemen means, that the law should write the following – a civil servant solves the situation if his working relationship stops because of, and now it counts, condemns himself to a prison sentence of at least six months. Well, of course it has to stop. Then, the final solution which was given the disciplinary penalty of termination of employment, the final solution which "is not satisfactory" to the evaluation, as well as for other reasons foreseen by the general rules on labour, which regulates the termination of employment, independent of the will of the employee and the will of the employer. It's all in attitude one that we want to keep in the bill. In particular, I direct you, the Honorable Chairman, to the MPs who come to the Assembly, to discuss, and neither read the law nor the amendments. Dear gentlemen, we suggest that Position 2 remain in the law as well. Paragraph 2 also states that the civil servant is resolved from the position even though the authority or body responsible for its appointment accepts the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protector for its resolution, i.e. if it accepts the resolution initiative on the basis of the measure of public publication of the resolution recommendation, issued by the Anti-Corruption Agency. We propose to keep it in the bill. What did we suggest? Here's another one here to announce to respected MPs and guests from the ministry. We've suggested that you delete Section 3. It's not a problem for me, the Honorable Chairman, for MPs who don't read the material that comes to the Assembly, that we meet here in the Assembly to explain to them what the amendments are, what the law contains, and now again -- attitude 3 is necessary, gentlemen, to delete, because in attitude 3, we have an introduction of a coin that I said earlier in my speech and here I saw some people's approval. The coin says that a civil servant can also be resolved when there is a situation of breach of public confidence in that state body. We felt, and I think it's really an appropriate assessment of this attitude, that this coin breach of public trust creates huge opportunities for abuses, that it creates huge possibilities for some people's terrible arbitration, because the question is, how are we going to determine exactly what it means to violate public trust? Does a breach of public trust arise when the government suggests something, combined with some of the tabloids, for example, via the minister of police? Will this situation mean that the public trust was violated when the whole thing was masked? We believe that we should delete from this bill the coin that leads to the terrible possibilities of abuse and a difficult arbitration, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9238	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Your time is up. You're out of time. Government Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Kori Udovicki reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9239	I'd just like to clear it up one more time, since obviously there are confusions in several parliamentary groups. There were two types of amendments. There were several of them concerning this third member's position to be amended by Article 78, so Article 16. Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. The aim of this position, as well as the whole of this article, is to strengthen the responsibility of civil servants for their work. We think St. 1st and 2nd are particularly indisputable. Article 3 speaks of a category of officials who should be very and independent in their work and protected, yet must be responsible for the quality of their work. In this case, the member sought to introduce a measurement of the extremely poor quality of the work in the event of a serious disturbance in the work of the state body to which the official is handling it. There was also the intention to introduce some kind of objectivity and public relations to the management of these bodies, and the fact is that we would like to find a way and figure out a way to introduce it. However, there was a proposal for an amendment relating not to erasing the whole position, which would again make the executive completely irreplaceable and therefore irresponsibly responsible for its work, but there was an amendment that said that the last part of Article 3 could still be deleted, which is that a civil servant could be resolved if there was a breach of public confidence in that state body. Such an amendment has been accepted by the government, because we believe that the previous part of this attitude is said to be resolved if there is a serious disturbance in the work of the state authority to which someone is in charge, it can be resolved, that it is indisputable in a normal court procedure and therefore one way to call someone to account quite objectively. When it comes to public relations, we will continue to look for a way to introduce it into a regulation that is more evidenceable. In any case, it is important to point out that as it goes now, this member of the law uncontestably strengthens the responsibility of civil servants in their positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9240	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9241	I didn't get what you just said, Madam Minister. Are you suggesting that, in these changes, this last part of the sentence, which reads: "or until you have violated public trust" or are you preparing it for some of the following? If that's your decision right now, that means our amendment is essentially accepted. He wasn't formally accepted, but essentially he did. (Kori Udovicki, from the places: The amendment was accepted essentially. ) Okay, but I'd still like to say something about that amendment. Of course you can misread things or if you don't read or if you read, so you have an evil intention or if you read, but you don't understand what it says. In Article 78, an existing member to be amended by Article 16. The draft amendments to the law well writes that a civil servant is dismissed or resolved from office if sentenced to a sentence of at least six months, if he has a final solution to which the disciplinary punishment of a working relationship has been imposed, if he is given the assessment "unsatisfactory", which includes the possibility of a competent official, the authorities' elders may, through the assessment, "unsatisfactory" end up with that poor clerk, etc. We also accept this change that has now come. If formally necessary, then we withdraw the amendment to this Article 16 if the new text such that there are no words in the new text: "or until public confidence is violated in that state body". All attempts to bring out false truths in parliament are bad for Parliament's dignity. A recent attempt at something or someone I really have nothing to resent, nature does its part, so we cannot always be stronger than it is, I think it was an obligation that, no matter who is from which party, the chairman warns him that making lies, or untruth, does not contribute to increasing the dignity of our house, which is called the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9242	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I cannot, by amendment given by a group of MPs, know exactly who he means in the discussion of an MP, and especially as chairman, I cannot appreciate whether what he says is true or false. I really don't understand what you wanted me to do at that point. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9243	Mr. Chairman, I'm advocating a breach of Rules of Procedure107. Article 1 For the thousandth time in this National Assembly, it is permitted to insult the MPs of the SNS. I don't know to what extent and what extent it takes for you to act as chairman. Mr. Marijan Risticevic, I remind you, is a member of the SNS parliamentary group. We are proud of our fellow Members, our fellow Members, and we do not deny that in this National Assembly you allow other political options, which present their political views, to be spoken of in a third person and to be spoken of as "something", as if they were not human beings, and that you go beyond that without reaction, I do not want anyone in this National Assembly to be punished, but it is necessary to point out the violated dignity of the National Assembly. It is necessary to point out the lack of home education, the lack of political correctness, and at this point the previous speaker spoke of another MP in the third person of one by calling him things. Is that allowed? Is that polite? Is that normal? To what extent do you expect the SNS to suffer and withdraw before ultimately an insult based on political hatred?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9244	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9245	I'm asking you to conduct this session politely, normally, concentratedly and sanction that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9246	Mr. Granny, I'm really sorry, because what you just said, I'll take a stenogram, I haven't heard. I allow it to be said. If I understood it that way and heard it that way, I would certainly have warned the speaker who talked about it. We don't allow people's MPs to be spoken of that way. I only gave information to a debater, which was insisted by the MP who was speaking at that time. He is the president of the Peasant Party, which is on the SNS list and I only provided information that he is formally not a member of the party, except for being on the SNS list. Once again, I apologize to the MP, Mr. Rističević, if it is said, in fact, I believe that it is spoken, but I apologize, I have not heard it. It is certain that I would react that this is how one member of parliament is qualified. Excuse me, Mr. Babico, do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9247	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Mr. Becic, dear Mrs. Udovici, honored guests, I believe he is a injured member of 108, who speaks of the order being held at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly. I believe you're based on article 1 item 108. The rules of procedure must now intervene when Mr. Babic spoke. It is said here – the president of the National Assembly is taking care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. Three things I want to say. One thing, order, the Honorable Chairman, means we're discussing here without knowing what we're talking about. That's basic order. The second thing, when we use a third person of one, then we need to know, and here it's just said that it can apply to her or to him. So any interpretation that goes beyond that, I think it wasn't appropriate. The third thing, the Honorable Chairman of Vienna, I believe that order implies and that here we know who the party MP is. You say Mr. Risticevic is not a member of the SNS. Mr. Babic just said - Mr. Risticevic is a member of the SNS. Who's the party member here, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9248	Mr. Pavicevic, don't make sure of that. The chairman may know, but also the right of MPs, in this case Mr. Zivkovic, who has recognised himself in the discussion of the previous debate and responded to this, is the right of every MP to discuss it in such a way. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to have a word. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How do you know? I'm reporting for the amendment. Listen to me until the end, so I can give you an explanation. You've got two minutes and 23 seconds, but since we've got a lot of reports, you can't get a word right now, you can do it in the order in which you called. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the chairman, in order to offend and humiliate me, he must be better than me. So I don't experience that anyone can insult me with any sentence in this House, nor can they humiliate me. A man can insult himself, humiliate himself. Everything he says about others, alluding, say, to the physical appearance, that something is something, etc., everything someone tells you, he speaks only of himself, not of you. So, you don't have to apologize to me, but just for academic congratulation, it's been said here that I haven't read the material. I must warn academic congratulation of the next provision of Amendment 2 to Mr Zoran Babic, which states that the words set out in Article 16(3) shall be read. - and to a breach of public confidence in that state body, that the public servant is not fired for that reason. If someone had read the material, which was respected to me, he would have noticed that it was already an amendment that was accepted by both the Government and the Committee, that it had already been deleted by the amendment proposed by the ruling party MP, there would be no need for so much support for the changes that have already been made, that someone had read the entire material. I have read both law and article 16 and adopted and unadopted amendments. I do not have that kind of academic honesty, which is very strange, so I felt that attitude 3, which says – a state official who manages the state authorities is being resolved when the authority or body responsible for setting him up found that at the time of his leadership there was a serious disturbance in the work of the state body he is managing, felt that this disorder could come from these first two positions, that this attitude 3 sublimes the part that remains, following Mr Babic's amendment, sublimates these first two. It means that it is contained in the third, and it can be mistrusted because the civil servant is convicted, etc. Without this attitude 3, these two would somehow sound completely inconclusive to me, and so I was saying that the motioner suggested that the provisions of Article 16 be deleted. Here, I allow myself the right not to express myself precisely, but I read the material carefully, so I also read the parts of Mr Babic's amendment, which were adopted. As far as trying to talk here that I'm not telling the truth, that can happen. The chairman cannot determine whether an MP is telling the truth or not, but here, I am prepared, and I have cited the abuses of a certain civil servant, and I have also stated that this civil servant is building a house with a pool in India. If that is not true, referring to all the documents I have called upon, if not true, I am prepared to leave this parliament, and I can bring in the complete documentation concerning the case of the state official and related to the case of one prime minister, former federal minister of police, and former winemaker, Kalemar, etc. If that case is not based on the documents of the Ministry of Agriculture, which I was talking about, I am prepared to resign and leave this Parliament at this moment and never return to it. But if that file speaks of the accuracy of what I've presented, I'd like my colleague to move away only for a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9250	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9251	By amendment, but just to tell you, I didn't recognize myself in the discussion that you said earlier that I recognized myself, but I was talking about the essence of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9252	Mr. Zivkovic, why did you report and react to the presentation if you did not recognize yourself in the presentation of the previous speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9253	Let me speak for two minutes, and then give me your grade. That's one thing. I have the right to speak for my five minutes and I'll take advantage of it. I volunteered to explain, as a proposing, so there's no need to recognize anyone. When it says that Proposer Zoran Zivkovic is, then I am the only one in this House, Zoran Zivkovic. No recognition, but a motionor's reaction to what was presented in one pointless discussion. After the Minister's intervention, which explained that the Ministry, or Government, accepted the practical essence of our amendment by this amendment, I withdrew the amendment. That was the purpose of my reporting, and the nebuloses, which are heard all over parliament, can never provoke recognition from an honorable man like me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9254	Mr. Zivkovic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly and choose the words you use in parliament. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What did I just say? I don't want to repeat what you said. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9255	Article 16 of this Amending and Supplementing Proposal of the Law has certain places for discussion. I think it's about attitude one. I think it would be more precise and better if this conviction were defined as a judicial conviction and I see it as the only drawback. As regards Article 3, since the amendment, which I have submitted to Article 3, where we have defined and removed from that member a breach of public confidence, I believe that we are now talking about the remainder of Article 16, Article 3, and the need for this remainder to be necessary, that a state official who manages the public authorities should be resolved from the position where the authority or body responsible for its appointment determines that there has been a serious disturbance in the work of the state authority. If the body set up, or the state body that sets up and solves, I think it's doing its job, if it's setting up, but it takes jurisdiction and solves it. That makes perfect sense. If we do not have two-stage or two-layerity in this setting, it is normal that we also do not have that two-stage solution. What is much more important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what is SNS policy, what is necessary, and that is the responsibility and inability to waste time. Whether Serbian citizens have the opportunity to wait for a civil servant to do something, don't give God something bad, so that the application can be proven, so that a court case can be conducted, so that someone can be convicted, that the conviction becomes a forceful one, and only then that civil servant is resolved. No, I don't. There's no time to waste. If someone is doing bad work, if someone is doing more in his own interest and less in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if there is an indication of such a thing, he must leave. The Serbian Progressive Party has also sought quality in its political performance so far, seeking as many people as possible from knowledge, skills, integrity, those who, in the best sense, will work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the best sense in place and in the function entrusted to them. No function, no chair is a grandfather. No function, no chair is where we're going to let go of the roots and stay stinged because in our cell phone we have the phone number of a political power man, and in the pocket of a membership card. That time is a plus-squamperfect. We forgot that time in the period until 2012. This is the time when you look for quality, when you're looking for knowledge, when you're looking for engagement, and when there's only two yellows for one red, and in a basketball of five personal mistakes. In the state administration, in politics, we advocate to create a place without the right to error and without forgiveness, but only quality in the interests of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9256	I thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9257	Right after the amendment. Nebulous means foggy, vague and vague. So that's not an ugly word. In particular, he says -- unbulbful, vague, vague, and it concerns ideas and exposure, so I did not just say anything that could undermine the integrity of this parliament. I recommend reading some serious books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9258	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must again point to no reading of the material when it comes to my own amendment. Just now, a colleague, who thinks he's not nebulous, has said that, as an amendment promoter, he has proposed that the amendment be withdrawn. I would advise to read the Rules of Procedure. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a former prime minister, I'm not a former federal interior minister. There needs to know some legal sciences, at least you should. I'm not even a winemaker, I'm not a calamari, but on the matter of the work I'm doing, I have to read the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say the amendment can be proposed separately or jointly by the MPs, the committee can, etc., but on the amendment, which one colleague tried to withdraw, the amendment was submitted by two. So, the amendment, as I have read the Rules of Procedure, withdraws in writing, as proposed, and the amendment must be withdrawn by the proposings. Therefore, both Members of the People who have proposed this amendment. That's what I say, which I understand a little about the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to be denied. There's a lawyer here who's smiling. I'm right. As president of the People's Peasant Party, as one farmer by profession, not by character, so a peasant by profession, not a character peasant, not a peasant from the city, I read all these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and I think I was right. I dare say, although academic honesty claims that I have dared comment on their amendment, to comment on and withdraw the amendment. I think I'm right and the president needs to explain to us whether the amendment has been withdrawn, whether it can be withdrawn by one of the motions or whether they have to do both in writing, so I want an interpretation about it. In the end, why do I insist on this article? I was replaced by the former regime in the municipality of Indjia from the seat of Parliament's president at the Water Management without a quorum. This was found by a public official to be quite valid, as the record said most of them had done so, returning some of the mandates that had been seized six months earlier, replacing me literally in the water management building without quorum on October 5th, 2007 for two reasons. One was that I opposed the rise of an illegal vineyard in the spring of 2007, because the land was in state property. Someone broke into the state property and planted the vineyard, so that he could subsequently obtain subsidies, etc. The other reason I was relieved was because I opposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9260	Mr. Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9261	Hold on. The member says the official changes in the way he changes. I've been replaced against these suggestions. I was only removed because I opposed the construction of a battery recycling plant on Indji's waterway, a regional waterway whose erasure was scheduled for the government to give consent. As speaker of the assembly, I was obliged to oppose a decision envisioned by the government's previous consent. Such a decision was not to go to the congregation. That's why I've been replaced, and today Indjia can't use water for cooking, let alone for drinking. That's why I've been relieved, and that's why I insist that there's a responsibility with civil servants who make a mistake, so they have to be replaced, when I could be replaced, because I insisted on not making a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9262	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. As I missed a moment ago to explain to the speaker, as someone quotes the words in the dictionary and explains what it means in the dictionary, I think I should appreciate that in this high house, something, in which context is spoken and the way that word is spoken. And if she makes excuses by beating or speaking to another MP, I have to act. No, I'm not talking to you, Mr. Risticevic. I'm talking about the explanation I got about some word, what it means in the dictionary. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9263	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I have submitted this amendment, first of all, to the fact that, behind the words, prison sentences of at least six months are added – i.e. convictions for some of the crimes against the state authorities, crimes against justice, crimes against legal traffic and crimes against official duty, regardless of the criminal penalty imposed. And you said yourself earlier that it was this particular article of the 16th. The draft law amending and supplementing this law actually carries out, or strengthens the responsibility of civil servants, and it is out of the reasons for the amendment to this article that I have submitted, that is what it does. First of all, it foresees an extension of the reasons for the discharge of civil servants and thus predicting the possibility of discharge for these crimes, regardless of the extent of criminal sanctions some civil servant has been imposed in criminal proceedings. Of course, what I have to say and express dissatisfaction this way is that very often in reasons for the refusal of amendments, however much they are actually a sign of respect, or the absence of the same applicant. So I don't mind at all. The government felt that this amendment should be rejected, and that is quite fine, but if the reasoning states that the amendment is not accepted because the decision in the bill was adopted in the RS labour legislation and that it provides for the unity of the legal order, you can see with such an explanation that I cannot agree, because above all it is humiliating. I think that in the reasons when any amendment, any MP, is rejected, it must be stated why it is done. In this case, the team before, I will underline the words – the draft law was adopted in the RS labour legislation. This is for a reason to be clear one fact, that this law is easy to specialise with the Labour Act and something like that should at least be mentioned in this reason for refusal. Because these reasons for refusing, without any indication, you're actually coordinating lech specialis with the General Labour Act, and that puts civil servants in a more favourable position. I'm going to do a little dyspression here, too. When we discussed in November 2012 the laws in particular of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises, I proposed an amendment which was essentially the same objective, to extend certain criminal acts. And you see, that amendment has become an integral part of the Law published in "The Official Messenger". But the public does, the Law on civil servants is a light specialis in relation to the Labour Act and it is absolutely inappropriate for reasons of refusal to state that this bill has been adopted in the working legislation of the RS. Such a thing is incorrect, thus absolutely and people's MPs, who are not lawyers, but also Serbian citizens, are being led astray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9264	Thank you. The 16th amendment was filed by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Executive Board, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government Committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is a folk letter from Sabina Dizdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9265	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we have proposed provides a more understandable and clear form than the solution offered in the draft law. In order for legal certainty to exist in one system, it is necessary for the disputed facts to be regulated in a dubious and final manner. Strong legal frameworks must be established, excluding the possibility of reviewing, changing and modifying the content of the solution. A rightful solution in an autoratious way regulates the behavior of those concerned and it must be a source of security, and only it can if regulation is finally and irreversible. This provides the necessary legal certainty which should be unequivocally defined, through legality and can only exist if the citizen knows with certainty what the state can or should do, or what is prescribed and permitted. This is about a vaguely stated, not well-defined term in the law, being able to play an unhealthy role in law enforcement, or to leave room for malfeasance in its execution. Therefore, it is necessary to achieve maximum clarity and understanding when defining the concepts in one law, which will increase the level of legal certainty, and one democratic state, which wants to ensure its citizens a maximum of freedom, must not forget legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9266	Thank you. The government's vice president, Dr. Kori Udovicki, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9267	The amendment was subject to an amendment that came after the government discussed these amendments. The government would like to submit a new explanation as to why this amendment is being rejected. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that, as a rule, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, all time limits on legal remedies have been in progress since the date of final decision-making and the right to conduct a administrative dispute do not retain the execution of the final solution. In addition, general labour regulations and specific regulations in certain areas which are governed by the decision-making process on the rights and duties of employees, this issue has been regulated in a manner such as the draft law. For these reasons, we believe that the proposed solution is more comprehensive and that the amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9268	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9269	Thank you. The government also predicted that, when we talk about the professional training of civil servants, general training programmes are being adopted in accordance with the previously obtained opinion of the High Official Council and that they are brought by the minister. In doing so, the government has singled out state officials from the government's authorities and services in its proposal. I don't know why government officials are particularly isolated. I think all those to whom the employer is the Republic of Serbia represent one system and then either you list everything, or you list no one. The law defines exactly what is considered state officials. To avoid the possibility of leaving someone out in the list, it was quite enough to say for state officials from the government's authority, but you singled out the government's service. In this situation, we have suggested that, if you are already going to eviction, probably by importance, in addition to the government's service, the National Assembly and the Service of Presidents of Serbia, because they represent a comprehensive system, because the training programmes of civil servants in those civil services should be in general and individually harmonised, because they have a single identical employer, which is the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9270	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9271	Article 19, which follows in the amendments and additions to Article 18, which was explained by my colleague Vesna Martinovic, is a good change in this proposal to amend and supplement. It is a matter of professional training, organisation and implementation of a training programme for the state administration. Our amendment, both in the previous case of Article 18 and Article 19, introduces the salaries of all employees from the authorities of the State Administration and Service, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government. I think it is important to clarify in the course of the debate whether in the proposed text, that the position is – the means for the general training programmes of civil servants organised by the Staff Management Office are provided in the amount of 0.01% of the total funding provided for the salaries of all employees from the Government's authorities and services. Can we get, and for a stenogram to stay that in case of non-admission of amendments, that this from the authorities of the state administration to refer both to the service of the National Assembly and to the President of the Republic, or not, or will that be interpreted during the application? This is the only reason why we have asked to specify that the training program clearly writes – the service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Government, because it is important for them to be part of professional training. It is said that the amendment is not accepted since, according to the proposed solution, the funds in the given percentage are provided for a general training programme for all civil servants in state bodies. I ask you to make this clear at this session, to remain in the stenogram, that on behalf of the Government, you have said that part of the word "in the state authorities" refers to the service of the National Assembly, to the President of the Republic as well as to the government services and all other civil administration officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9272	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Meso Omerović and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. VLADIMIR Marinković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9273	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, having in mind that professional training of state service employees is essential and the core of what we discussed in the principle debate, and today in particular, the level and capacity of their skills, of course and their formal education, determines the quality of the work of the state administration itself and its effectiveness and effectiveness. I think the point and what defines our amendment is how much money can be allocated to professional training of civil service employees. In addition to what you define in the law itself, in the public administration development strategy itself, which is that those who perfect themselves will become instructors, so this is a very important aspect of the multiplication of knowledge, so that these costs would be drastically reduced, but the essence is 0.01%. I also mentioned in the speech and in the principle debate that in neighbouring Croatia as much as 3% of the total gross earnings in the state administration, with 3% is funded professional improvement. Given that, hopefully, the state and your ministry will form a centre for professional training, which will be and whose main mission will be to improve and implement education programmes in accordance with the needs of the state administration, I consider it to be a very small amount. If we have about 30,000, that's an estimate, I'm going to use the time of the authorised representative, the Honorable Chairman, employees of the state administration, or in the administration, mathematically when we calculate the amount allocated in the professional training budget is somewhere around three million dinars. If it were 3% of three million euros. I believe that although you have the possibility that through certain IPA funds and other other and co-operation with other organisations, which may finance it, such as the OSCE, JNDP, such as JSJ, that this is a very, very small amount and I cannot quantitatively imagine that in a qualitative sense, this amount of money will be allocated from the budget to be able to drastically affect the professionalisation of the state administration and to increase the capacity of knowledge and skills of state administration employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9274	I thank Professor Marinkovic. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 19. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 20. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9275	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The Minister, dear and distinguished colleagues, the NDS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 27, which regulates the code of conduct of civil servants, where we have proposed to add a new position that will be stated – the code of conduct of civil servants brings the Government along with the previously obtained opinion of the National Assembly's competent committee and the High Official Council. The government did not accept this amendment even though it was our wish to rise to a higher level of obligation by adopting this amendment and thus to adopt the Code of Civil Service. As we said in the principle debate, when we talk about the Law on Civil Servants, which is on the agenda today, i.e. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants, we certainly rely on and look at the reform of the state administration in general and improve the position of civil servants. I agree with the explanation given in addition to this bill that the text that is before us today greatly improves the official system and our amendments that we have submitted have just been to this end. When we talk about the civil servants' code, we should point out that the current civil servants' code was brought in 2008 and it predicts that it is being applied and if there is a breach of this code, it represents a minor violation of the duties of civil servants. I didn't come across any case when there was a sanctioning violation of this code. It may not have been that, but I would say that some of the behaviors that were in the previous period certainly earned attention and deserved to initiate certain procedures and to see if there was a breach or not. I'm not saying it wasn't there, I certainly couldn't find it, not even on the High Official Council website. The current code prescribes certain principles of civil servants' behaviour and, among other things, rules political neutrality. In Article 5 of the current Code in paragraph 2, it is said – a civil servant adheres to his duty as the principle of political neutrality. Then, it goes on to say – a civil servant must not wear and highlight the characteristics of political parties or their propaganda material. Unfortunately, we have the case that high-ranking state officials, and therefore, probably taught by their behaviour, state officials point out their party traits, if in any other way, then it was necessary in this respect to apply the code of conduct of civil servants. I hope that after the adoption of this law it will come to the adoption of a new code of conduct of civil servants, because the code of conduct of civil servants does not mean only the code of dress, which is often made public and so-called, in terms of the behaviour of civil servants. If we consult codes of conduct of civil servants in countries in the region, then we see that they are much broader in handling behavior and introducing certain principles. In Croatia there is also an Ethics Commissioner who monitors the application of the very code of conduct of civil servants. Then the complaint relationship was regulated. It is through such a relationship that we have with complaints that come from citizens or from some other state bodies, in fact we introduce the principle of transparency in the state administration. Like I said, the current code doesn't regulate it. Then, a relationship with citizens, a mutual relationship between civil servants. In Montenegro, the code of conduct of civil servants regulates conflict and interests and is much broader than the law provides. As I said, I hope that, as provided for in the transitional and final provisions of this bill, sublegal acts will be adopted in, as regulated here, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law and that this new code will contain comprehensive provisions that will regulate the behaviour of civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9276	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted the 30th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9277	Thank you. In Article 30(2), the government literally provided for the following - persons in the state bodies in the workplaces that continue to work until the position of the performers, i.e. to fill the position. I ask you, how do they continue to work, and why do the performers in the places where the faces are already placed? If there are already faces, then why fill the position? The official of duty, at least according to what the government has predicted here, is only being appointed as a civil servant in office. If a civil servant has already been appointed in that position, then there is no legal assumption that he is appointed acting. In that sense, we have suggested that this position of Article 30 be deleted, as illogical and conflicting with what is already proposed by the Government in the previous provisions of the same bill. I'm sorry the government didn't accept this amendment, but I think it violated a logical system of this bill that's on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9278	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague and I have submitted an amendment to Article 30, so we propose that it be changed and that it is said – Competitions for the fulfilment of state positions which are not completed after the entry into force of this law shall be discussed no later than 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law. Decisions imposing duties on positions which are not completed after the entry into force of this law shall be adopted within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We have explained in the explanation that the solution offered by the proposal only regulated the situation of the acting officers, but as the bill provides only as an option, and not as an obligation to appoint the perpetrators, the issue remains an open question of filling unfulfilled positions where the officials of office are not appointed. In view of this, an amendment has been proposed setting out the obligation and deadline for the opening of the competition for filling the position. The proposed amendment also deletes the position of Article 2. The draft law, which reads - People in the state bodies in positions in office, continue to work until the perpetrators enter the position, or until they fill the position. We believe that such a solution is not good, since now the applicable law does not know solutions that fit the performer's duties in content. According to the provisions still in force, the only persons placed in the public authorities in the jobs that are in place are the civil servants in office, so the solution in the proposal would in fact mean that officials are being replaced by civil servants in office. If the promoter had in mind the fact that there are officials who are in a position in fact performing the duties of officials, there is no need to legalise such a state of affairs. If the tasker is to be set, there is a deadline for setting him up. If an official is already in fact doing his duty, there is now a basis for a solution. If it is considered that an official who is a fact-finding officer should not continue to do so, there is no need to continue in office. The Government rejected this amendment, i.e. in its reasoning, - the amendment is not accepted because a transitional character provision has been proposed, since it regulates the adoption of a solution to the appointment of the perpetrators of duties in positions which are not filled at the time of entry into force of this law. We are not very clearly suggested, the government's clearest argument to reject this amendment. And the provision in the draft law and amendments to the provision are transitional, since Article 30 The proposal is found in part of the transitional and final provision. This isn't the first time the government has given such a dreary and vague explanation of why it refuses. Noting only that the transitional character demeans MPs who read bill proposals and especially those who deal with these bill proposals and make amendments. When we wrote the amendment, we certainly saw it fall under transitional and final provisions. We really can't accept such an explanation of the rejection of the amendment. The amendment proposes to amend Article 30, which should also regulate the deadline for the opening of competitions and the deadline for the adoption of a solution on the appointment of the perpetrators of duties, since these two issues are inseparable. The official of office shall be the official of office, not the civil servant in office and shall perform his duties until a civil servant is appointed in office. Since it is a temporary state of affairs, it is necessary to regulate precisely all aspects of such a temporary situation, especially the deadlines in which the deadlines for the position should be set. The solutions we propose by amendment are precisely clearer and more precise in regulating the handling of this matter in the period from the entry into force of the law to its full application. The refusal of amendments unequivocally indicates that the applicant is precisely responding to the non-recognition of the procedure for holding or setting up new appropriate personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9280	Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, together submitted the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9281	Thank you. The amendment that we have submitted to Article 31 is, in fact, an integral part, so to speak, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Our amendment reads as Article 31. The bill is deleted. To explain, I'll read what the bill says. So it reads - in the event that no decision is taken on the appointment of the acting officer within the time limit, referred to in Article 30(1) of this Act, the persons placed at the workplaces who are in a position to terminate their duties on the expiry of the period. As you can see, he's tied to Article 30 himself. Why did we propose to delete? Because in Article 30. The bill says that the solution to be put in place by the officers of the post, which is not completed after the entry into force of this law, will be adopted no later than 90 days after the date of entry into force of this law. So the provision of the bill is set up so that it is an obligation to make solutions. Therefore, one logical question is asked – which requires Article 31. The bill if the obligation to adopt a solution is foreseen, because, as I said, the question is asked – how is it possible that there is a case for not making a solution whose adoption is a legal obligation? I believe that the Law on civil servants, in addition to regulating the rights and obligations of civil servants, should also contribute to protecting the dignity of civil servants. State officials shall be those persons who, on behalf of the State, implement decisions or enforce laws or other sublegal acts adopted by the State. The notion of a civil servant should signify such a notion and have such a function or employment as to reflect the state authority and therefore, from the point of view of the state, should provide certain respect and protection for that dignity. In this way we are actually going from a negative assumption, or to say from that, there may be a situation of violation of the law by civil servants, and that is precisely when it comes to their rights and obligations. Therefore, we felt that it was far more comprehensive for this member to be left out since it was already regulated by the law itself and, as in the previous amendment, it was not exactly the clear explanation of the rejection of amendments that it was about transitional and final provisions. Transitional and final provisions are an integral part of the law and it is very clear that they have and must be respected as any other provision. Therefore, although it is a transitional provision, it requires certain obligations on the part of the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9282	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on civil servants' salaries and substitutes You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Dr Blaže Bradić, Vesna Martinović, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić and Dragan Šutanovac. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9283	Thank you. I'll be very brief. So, we proposed an amendment just wanted to more precisely define what is considered to be the employer of the civil servants. Since we all know that this is the Republic of Serbia, our amendment is, and in this sense, predicted in the Republic of Serbia as an employer. We believe that this makes much better the purpose and purpose of what the Government wanted to do with the proposed change, but since it is not accepted, the rest of us have been denied for a better purpose and purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9284	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9285	Mr Chairman, Mrs Udovici, colleagues and colleagues, Article 1 relating to the amendment and addition of the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies refers to a valid member of the 23rd that says – the civil servant has the right to add to the basic salary of 0.4% of the basic salary for each completed year of work in a working relationship i.e. past work. The ministry proposed that the member be changed and that "in a working relationship" be added "to the employer regardless of which state body he was employed". As a representative of the party, within the NDS-ZZS-ZS parliamentary group, I have proposed, in contact with the Serbian Administration Trade Union, an amendment that reads – Article 1 after Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Title 1, new positions 2 and 3 are added, which reads as follows: "Right to add to the basic salary set out in Article 1 of this Article are state officials who are employed by the users of direct budget funds. “ The status of civil servants in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article is given by the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government with the reason that the amendment is specified by the category of civil servants in order to remove possible different interpretations in the application of the law and we propose that the right to past work applies exclusively to officials who are employed by the users of direct budgets. We believe that in the case of different interpretations by the authority of the administration, on the status of civil servants as regards his right to past work, the interpretation should be given by the resolution ministry. I got an answer, just one moment, which says this - the amendment is rejected by reason is not accepted because Article 3 is paragraph 1. The civil servants' law stipulates that the employer of civil servants and deputies, the Republic of Serbia, continues to delete that by adding Article 3 it is not in accordance with Article 80. The State Administration Act, and Article 80. The Law on State Administration states – on the request of natural and legal persons, the authorities of the State Administration are obliged to give an opinion on the application of the provisions of the laws and other general acts within 30 days. The opinion of the Authority of the State Administration is not binding. Madam Minister, therefore, there are MPs in this room who are delegates of the people, representatives of the people and they decide on the laws that will apply in the Republic of Serbia. I, as a MP, can be with a minimum of four classes of elementary school. I don't need to know the law at all, I don't need to know the procedures, I don't need to know the laws, I decide based on common sense and common sense. This has been the case in the National Assembly even before the First World Work since the National Assembly. Thank God there's a fellow lawyer here who can professionally settle with you, and I'm based on common sense, because I'm from another sphere and based on what I hear from my colleagues, I'm deciding whether I'm up to something or not. It's unacceptable for a civil servant who wrote these arguments to write, so he doesn't care whether we understand it or not. I want, if my amendment is rejected, no matter how meaningful it is, it is the right of the MP, and when it refuses, it is clear to me why he has been rejected. What does an 80th member have to do with what I wrote? It doesn't matter. So, I would ask you, since you sign by believing in what your subordinates in the ministry give you, that it is so meaningful and that it does not offend the intelligence of our MPs, because if we are not professional, I guess we have the power of judgment and common sense to see if anything is compatible or whether something fits or doesn't. Why did I submit this amendment? A civil servant, to whom he refers, is a person whose place of employment consists of business from the work of the State Administration Authority, courts, public prosecutors, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Constitutional Court and the Service of the Authority whose members are elected by the National Assembly, in the text of the State Authority, or associated with the General Legal Information, Material and Accounting and Administrative Affairs. State officials are not MPs, the President of the Republic, judges of the Constitutional Court, members of the government, judges and public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors and other persons elected by the National Assembly or appointed by the Government and persons who, according to the last regulations, have the position of officials. What was the idea of the amendment is that quality people who work in local self-governments, who can normally get an offer from your ministry from another ministry, from some state authority to cross over to them. By applying the new Labour Act where, as counterpart Batic said, this is a Lex specialis, they may not want to cross because they lose the right to past work. Our idea was to submit amendments, that all those who are budget users, and these are all officials in the Republic of Serbia who are on the budget, whether at local or republican level, have the right to withdraw to a new workplace, not to be a factor that prevents a high-quality man from one job from going to some state body from the locals. Let's say, from Belgrade City, I don't know, someone who works at the Belgrade City Assembly gets an offer to go to work in some ministry, has 30 years of work experience, and a man doesn't want to cross because he's going to lose 12% of his salary. That's why we've proposed this amendment and we think it's meaningful, because quality people shouldn't have the ability to reject jobs because we're the one who's legally predicting that it won't go away if it takes someone who's 30 years of working hours to lose 10% - 12% of their salary, which is not small. Please reconsider our amendment and accept it, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9286	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. You no longer have the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9287	I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9288	All right, I'm just informing your MP group that you don't have any more time based on the parliamentary group. Mr. Bradich, I've let you go for about ten seconds more. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on PLATS Sulajman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The Government and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, but you don't have time, Mrs. Komic. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9289	Thank you. The amendment was rejected by reason that there is no technical error in the provision of Article 1(1) of the draft law which should be corrected. The basic text of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services states - the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which lists the numbers of the Official Messenger where it is published, in Article 5(1) point 1, after the term "work relationship at the end of the point", the words "which employer within the meaning of Article 1 of this Act" shall be added. That, I think, is clear to both of you. So either it's a dot and it's stuck or it's a dot. It can't end at the end of the point. Any member of the law can have one attitude, there can be more attitudes. Any position of a member may have several points. The points in the article shall be marked by 1, 2, 3 and 4. You say now - at the end of the point. It can't. Either you have the end of the sentence at point one, or you have after point and the commas add the words. So there's a technical error. I ask you to take another look at this and think about it because it's not about any fundamental changes at all, but it's really about a technical error, and it's about a member of the amendment and the addition of the law. I know what it's going to look like to change and supplement the law in the consolidated text, but it can't stand like this in the amendment and supplementation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9290	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'm finishing the bill in detail. After we have carried out the draft law in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Vladimir Pavićevic, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Jovanovic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Zoran Babić, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homen, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Governance. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted these amendments. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9291	The proposal for this change given by the government is to allow the directors of special working organisations, government special organisations, to be elected from the order of teachers of a higher education institution in Serbia, which is a precedent compared to the other rules that apply there. The promoter says that the Constitutional Court is an exception that was an example of this, but I don't think the Constitutional Court can be an organ that compares itself with the Department of Stock Reserves or the Office of Statistics or the Demining Centro, which are all special organisations, so our proposal is to delete this member, because we think that there are quite serious enough people in Serbia who have enough knowledge and formal education to be able to lead these ten special institutions without having to reach out to people who are already employed in colleges. The question is, do people who need to educate students have time to deal with this kind of thing? On the other hand, the work to be done by the directors of these special organizations is such that it does not require the kind of expertise that teachers carry. There may be one exception, which is the newly formed Republic Secretariat for Public Policy, and perhaps there should be an opportunity for this change, but I don't think there are any reasons for that. I have expressed my suspicions, which may not be true, but the doubt is that it is done because of a republican secretary of legislation who already performs and functions here and the professor is in college.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9292	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9293	The proposal to amend and supplement the State Administration Act was quite serious and there had to be a little more debate about it. In fact, the government suggests that the second member, who describes what and who can be the director of a special organisation, can be appointed by the director of a special organisation in the order of teachers of a higher education institution in the Republic of Serbia. The figure of the 3rd member shall be placed on the proposal of the Prime Minister for five years and may continue to carry out the duties of teachers of the higher education institution. Not to quote a list of special organizations. If you were to talk very superficially, then almost to the street dictionary you'd be talking about a gig for a special group of people, which I hope won't happen, but when you talk about where he belongs in the state administration, then this solution will prove to be extremely bad. I understand the intention, and I understand that Alexander has the ability to give the names of teachers of higher education institutions who will be elected for five years. All their resolutions fall under other members of the State Administration Act, but for special organisations there is no teacher of higher education institutions in advance of such skills and such expertise that would allow such interference of teachers of higher education and state administration. Except that it is particularly bad that all others within the framework of the State Administration Act have criteria under which they will be elected, only these teachers, all they need is a proposal from the Prime Minister, will be no good for the Prime Minister or for the special organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9294	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendments. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9295	Article 2 whose erasure we're looking for is the same as Article 1 with what this is about the deputy directors. The government thinks that in the potential of existing officials or in the potential of people who do not work in government today, there are not enough qualified people to be deputy directors of special organisations. These special organisations are the Secretariat for Law, the Directorate for Stock Reserves, the Institute for Statistics, the Hydrometeorological Institute, the Geodetic Institute, the Property Directorate, the Exchange Centre, the Institute for Intellectual Property, the Institute for Social Security and the new Secretariat for Public Policy. For the same reasons that were the reasons for eradicating Article 1 I repeat these same reasons, I believe that, above all, in the existing potential of all these special organisations among the officials already there, there are enough both professional and young and experienced and capable people who can do the job and that it is not necessary to introduce that institution of conduct by the Prime Minister, because, as Col. Comic said, these are special officials who are only enough to be proposed by the Prime Minister, which is absolutely not a good measure, nor intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9296	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9297	Thank you. As we have had the opportunity to hear, the government has also proposed to the deputy directors of special organizations that persons who are also teachers of a higher education institution may be appointed. If we take into account the current position of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who insists that one man performs one function, which, in my opinion, is very justified, because if you want one function or job to do right, then you accept that one job or one function, and you don't accumulate them, because nobody is superman except one. What is being raised here as a question is this – is it really possible that we do not have enough professional people who could be appointed deputy directors of special organisations? If the answer to this question is yes and if we really do not have enough professional people in Serbia, then I ask you why you are predicting for the deputy directors of special organisations to be appointed exclusively and only persons from the order of teachers of higher education institutions, and not from other types of professions. Since I haven't received an answer through the Government's decision on amendments to these two questions, I don't think you have the right to be angry if we ask you a question about where the picture of the candidate is going to be appointed, because that's all that's missing to round up this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9298	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment per member, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted these amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9299	Thank you. The proposal in Article 3 reads -- the head of the administrative district is a functioner appointed and resolved by the Government for four years on the proposal of the Minister in charge of the affairs of the administration. Along with my colleagues, I have suggested that this change be deleted and an explanation why the Government refuses to give up the idea – the amendment is not accepted because the government considers it of utmost importance that the Head of Management has at least the political influence that other members of the board of directors have: the mayors of cities, the president of municipalities, since he is in office as chairman of the board of directors. What did you tell me about this argument in the State Administration Act? That political influence doesn't have an officer as he's the district chief by now. Of course there isn't and shouldn't be. What else did you tell me? That doing professional jobs in the county has the only basis for political influence. The whole idea of the district chief not being a functionary is that as slow as we, unfortunately, as a society, provide resistance to departisation, depolitisation, removing political influence from the state administration sector, is as slow as it should be, but that it is there without political influence. That's why he's in charge. That's the whole idea. The result of this is 29 new officials. I don't think there's any legitimacy or legality in the political party's position -- I'm going to set up my 29 strong people, they're going to be officials, and then they're going to have political influence. It won't work. Don't let because you have elected people who think they have a big influence, so they won't talk and negotiate with the district chief, to tear down a system that's set up properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9300	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9301	Thank you. I agree with the argument made by Mrs. Comic. I would add that no matter who appointed the district chiefs when they were called districts or now administrative districts from the '90s, when that function was invented, through post-five-octobaric authorities to the day that it was wrong. It's a function without function. So far, the district chief has been in charge of his secretary and his driver, and after this change, it remains the same, with him getting the honorary call of officials. He does not co-ordinate the work, nor can he do it, whether it is the detached republican authorities, primarily with inspections at the level of his district, and especially not in the free elections of elected presidents, the mayors of municipalities that make up the district. It's completely pointless to get such a high function. I think that through the reform of the state administration, the minister should go towards either eradicating that function from the law or giving an adequate function to the head of the administrative district. I don't see what that would be. There is no reason, and this council of the district, can be chaired by the president of the largest municipality or municipality in the alphabetical order or in any other way, only this should not be put at the expense of the state, at the expense of the citizens of 29 new officials. As I recall, the county's chiefs were recently employed in joint government services, which means together with drivers, coffee cooks, and it was practically their importance for the functioning of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9302	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Dr. Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9303	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I'm sure this amendment should be rejected. The reasons are obvious. The amendment promoter, in his explanation, says - it is unacceptable for the Commissioners, to quote, place and resolve themselves by the Government without previously precisely set criteria for the setting and resolution, and so on. Given that so far, the principals of the administrative districts have been elected through competitions to professionalise the public sector, etc., we believe that this is the way to do so. It is obvious that the amendment promoter, a group of DS MPs, has no knowledge of how the commissioners were elected during their government, so in 2008. According to the profession, these chiefs of administrative districts were lawyers, which is fine, economists, which is not controversial, but were also technologists, engineers, veterinarians, psychiatrists, and all of the ranks were actually functioners of ruling parties who found no arrests elsewhere. I wonder, and I ask you, by what criteria are they selected, and what is the professionalization of the public sector that you are talking about in the light of this amendment? The head of the administrative districts have just been elected by party criteria. They had no instruments to carry out their duties under their jurisdiction. They were just a month's notice, and besides, they were getting big paychecks. This amendment introduces the Commissioner as a official, who has clear instruments for the exercise of his competence and which will be a kind of connection between the republican government and local self-government. On the one hand, it will implement the government's policy, and it will help local self-government communicate with the executive bodies of the republican authorities, especially in the realisation of joint projects. This introduces the purpose of the existence of the Chief of Management. This system works in some countries in the environment. I will give you an example of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it has proved to be a great system of mutual communication, i.e. they are district managers, mutual communication between the Republic and local authorities. Therefore, we who know how the administrative districts functioned, especially the chiefs of the administrative districts, realize that it is logical to refuse such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9304	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, with a correction of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9305	The amendment to Article 5 is a consequent amendment. It is inevitable to submit if you change one of the ideas of the law, which later in other members produces consequences on how it will be applied. It's about transitional and final provisions. Article 5 of the proposed text states – the head of the administrative district will be appointed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We suggest that this member be deleted, since we have already suggested that we do not make one of the chiefs of the management district functionator. It will be interesting to monitor these next 30 days, i.e. from the moment this law comes into force, the personnel lists and proposals for the head of the district. And that's the only thing that's gonna be interesting. The way that this doesn't happen in the state administration is to accept the amendment we've given, as well as not to make 29 new officials in Serbia. It will not bring any good or functioning of the district itself, nor will it bring good, as a public echo, that some congregation majority, regardless of whether we vote for or against such a law, whether we are for or against the amendments, essentially the National Assembly considers it important to strengthen the influence of political parties in the local environments and in the districts. We believe that it should be reduced to the right extent and that it needs as much professional work as possible in local self-government and in administrative areas. That is, of course, why we are against the head of the management district being elected officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9306	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to prove once again that I'm reading these materials. The amendment submitted to this member, which was proposed, was accepted, through the amendment of MP Zoran Babic, to Article 5. The draft law, which reads, will be laid down within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law, so that this amendment adopts a solution proposed by and an important proposer who has just explained this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9308	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9309	It's been wiped out for 60 days. So please, it's not long to read. Our amendment is to delete the selection of chiefs. The amendment that has been accepted, I did not deliberately mention that an amendment has been accepted that representatives of the ruling coalition are looking for 60 days. You know, we political parties can't figure out who's gonna be in 30 days. Give us 60 days. We say, delete. When it's deleted, it doesn't exist, and when it's 60 days, then it's chosen. So this amendment is not that it's not accepted, it's not that close. Thank you for your opportunity to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9310	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9311	Thank you. Although we understood what we had in the discussion, about the principle of the law, because of the rapid changes to the Law on civil servants, we felt that it was necessary to respond urgently to some necessary changes and we had an understanding of that. On the occasion of amendments and additions to the State Administration Act, we have no understanding of why this is now and why such an important law is being changed with regard to a few members, and those who radically change the system so far. As we said in the principle debate, it is necessary to start with some facts that the meaning of the law, but also this bill, could be understood at all. In Serbia, according to the Regulation on administrative districts, there are 29 districts. In these 29 districts, according to data available to the public, there are 285 employees and the total amount of money allocated from the budget for the functioning of administrative districts is fourm euros. The task of the district's chief is to develop the government's policy on the ground through the government's policy and through the district councils, which the president of the municipalities enters, solve problems related to the economy, infrastructure, to act in emergency situations, as well as to communicate with companies. According to the current State Administration Act, in the work relating to the heads of the administrative districts, Article 40(2) states that the Head of Management of the District shall coordinate the work of districts and monitor the application of the directives and instructions that have been made, monitor the implementation of the plans for the work of district units and take care of the conditions for their work, monitor the work of employees in county district units and propose the launch of a disciplinary procedure against them, co-operate with the regional units of state administration bodies not educated in the district area, co-operate with municipalities and cities and carry out other tasks of a certain law. According to the Regulation on Administrative Circumstances, Article 3 states that the Authority of State Administration is allowed to decide in the administrative district on administrative matters in the first degree, to decide on the appeal, to solve public authorities in the first instance, to supervise the work of public authority holders and to carry out inspection tasks. As we can see, these are very serious competencies...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9312	Mrs. Malovic, just to let you know, your time is up. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9313	I have a time-limited representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9315	Like I said, it's about the serious powers that the Chiefs of Management have. Accordingly, it was also envisaged in the current State Administration Act that the Head of the Management District should be appointed for five years on a proposal from the competent minister for the tasks of administration under the law governing the position of civil servants, which means that the criteria for selecting the head of the Management District are equivalent to the criteria for selecting state officials. According to the draft law we are discussing today, this position of members of the 40th is changing and says the head of the administrative district is an official appointed and resolved by the government for four years on a proposal from the competent minister for the affairs of the administration. We do not see from this article, nor is it prescribed which criteria are for his choice. For reasons of law-making, therefore, the reasons for the proposal itself states that the position of the head of the administrative district is necessary to settle in accordance with the importance of their duties and functions in the system of state administration. The proposed changes are further said to be the pandemic of the government's secretary-general, who performs the same tasks at the central level as the head of the management district performs at the administrative district level. It is then further said in the explanations of individual solutions that the proposed solution overcomes problems in practice so far. This does not indicate the problems. In the debate in principle, we have pointed out the possibility that the commissioners and current chiefs of the administrative districts under this proposed law will be replaced and that is where we expressed concern. This fear has also come true, because according to the amendment you have just read, which the government has adopted, which will be an integral part of the law, there is a provision that the governors of the administrative district will be appointed within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Accordingly, as a lawyer, I would like to interpret that all 29 district chiefs or individual district chiefs will be changed in a manner similar to the government's position. In order not to do so, we have proposed an amendment that envisioned that until the current district chiefs will remain in office until the mandate expires, but the amendment has been rejected, which is very clear, given that the second amendment that is contrary to this has been adopted. Like I said, our fear that it will come to this has been accomplished. I believe that amendments to the State Service Act should be made to a more fundamentally expressed view and the government's goal of reforming the state administration. I agree that it was necessary to consider and possibly change the powers of the head of administrative districts, or to add certain powers to the government's position, but that it was not necessary to do so in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9316	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Vesenovic, you no longer have the time of the parliamentary group since we have completed the review of the amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft law on details. Since we have carried out a law search in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality. I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 15.00 hours, about the 7th item of the agenda. I thank the Members of the People. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue on the seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Notification of the invited to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of a principled review on the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Djukić, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, and Doc. Dr Ferenc Vinko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, also Gordana Pocanin and Bojan Potjevica, state officials at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. People's MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Article 1. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9318	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Professor Djukic, the Honorable Professor Vekic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have been talking about the problems of our citizens for several days now, the problems of replacing health books and I will talk about it today. Through this amendment, I tried to draw attention to the fact that as a Assembly, as a Ministry of Health, and as a Republic Fund, we should have done this job in the period prescribed by law. Since the law we voted in the Serbian Parliament on 28 July 2011, which was published in the "Official Messenger" on 1 August 2011, came into force on 9 August 2011, which clearly gave them a three-year deadline for the Republic Health Insurance Fund to adapt the health care system, to network our healthcare institutions, to allow the IT sector to enter into with the application of electronic health books. Unfortunately, we have failed to bring about the introduction and replacement of health books within that envisaged legal period. Today we are considering the possibility of delaying that deadline for another two years. In the amendment I proposed, I asked that the deadline be reduced through the amendment, since the introduction of such health books brings some good things and some newspaper for our insurance companies, for our citizens who suffer from various diseases. My amendment was rejected because of what is said – we believe that the deadline for a full replacement of existing health card documents is prescribed by the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act on 31 December 2016 is optimal, given all the necessary activities that need to be implemented in order to fully introduce it into the health insurance system. I would also read to you the reason for the law we passed in 2011, the same explanation was that, in order to make better and clearer use of our health insurance, our right to health insurance, Serbian citizens should receive these health books. Three years behind us, unfortunately, Serbian citizens do not have these health books that would allow them to have a more quality, faster and more efficient health appointment, to have a clear electronic prescription, to have clear access to their doctor's examination, to have a clear opportunity with the health book to be reviewed wherever in the state of Serbia. That's why the amendment was started, to say that if we give the deadline again, such a big deadline to the Republic Fund, we're just rewarding some people who probably aren't able to finish their work within hours. I think we should send together a message on the responsibility of each individual in the state system, which in our own opposition, anyone who speaks must bear the consequences of their spoken word, as well as of the work that is in a job of some person who performs. For three years, no one could have introduced those health books, and now we're giving a two-year deadline. If we say that a million and 200,000 health books have been made, there is one smaller number of these health books that we can do in a relatively fast time to deliver to the citizens these books. I don't know who failed in the system and who hasn't done it in three years, but now I'm giving them two more years, I don't agree. I know what I'm doing and how I'm doing, and I can't accept that someone's made a commitment doesn't. We've had our chance here to extend the validity of passports and ID cards, and it's all an indicator of one non-functional administration. So, let's not reward these people by mostly postponing problems, not sanctioning their stupidity for the sake of, unpreparedness and unskilledness to do this job for which they were assigned by the National Assembly, by the Ministry of Health and by the Republic Fund itself. When we talked about health books the other day and about a million and 100,000 health books that had already been printed and done, I had one outstanding question left. When it is said that they are free health books and that they will be allocated to the citizens who are the poorest, I believe that all citizens of these health books should get free of charge. They should get them at home by mail, as every bank speaks to its client and sends them through mail. I believe that the already printed health books we printed in that previous period were printed on the cost of the Serbian state. So they're from budget users, their money's been used and it's practically done. So we need to get out of this one vicious circle and say that this time we need to be more efficient, that this time we have to tell the citizens of Serbia that there's a possibility of a shorter deadline, to say that many clinical centres, many health centres already have their networked computer structure and that it doesn't take us so long to wait that we're now two years to give someone who hasn't done the job properly and in time. I think in talking to the Director of the Republic Fund that the biggest problem with health books is readers of health books and that's not some amount, I thought it was a much bigger sum. In a conversation with Professor O'Donnell. I received information from my grandmother that the sum ranged from 50,000 to 60,000 euros at the republican level for all health institutions. And that's no reason to say we can't give you two years to do some work. I think a year is enough. I believe that we need to force one positive approach by individuals who are in charge of something to do this job within their legal deadline, which is provided for both by the Assembly and that this deadline, which has already been three years, is no longer being extended. What's more important when we talk about the extension, is maybe the reason that those two years are wanted for the introduction of an electronic chart and an electronic recipe, I think it's the accompanying documents that make up the electronic health book of that real health book. The same thing that I have left with me is an unexplainable position regarding health books, is this health book going to be one health card, is it going to be like in many European countries? Since I spent two years in Switzerland, I had a scholarship from the Swiss government and I worked there one research project, I was an insurance company at that time in Switzerland, I had a health book where my generals stood, and all of my examinations were standing before I entered the Swiss hospital in Zurich, and that card was valid to me in the entire territory of Switzerland, wherever I was, wherever the patient found his data regarding x-rays, laboratory data, pathological findings were being drawn and the doctor predicted whether the family or the emergency center or the KC, which examined the patient had the opportunity to see generals in some previous period, a year, two, three, five, and not as we do now. When they send a patient from Vranj, we do not recognize their scanner in Nis, when we send from Nis to Belgrade the same patient who has already done the scan in Vranj, and we in Nis, and then in Belgrade do not recognize and re-work, is it unnecessary to spend money, is it unnecessary to irradiate patients, is it unnecessary to harass patients in that one system? Is it important that this health book can, within two years, predict that these things that are very important and that are moving towards Europe, since European countries have such health books, do we or will this health book have only one home number, the name of the insurance company and the number under which they are led to the RFZO? If there is such a health book, it has no meaning that I think it should have and it is not that connection to Europe. And then I don't know why the deadline would be two years. These are things that I have left unclear, and I think we should explain them. What I repeated on the Health and Family Committee this morning, you were not present, was Professor Vekic, I will repeat. I believe that when the RFO informs its insurance companies that we need to change our health books and that the deadline is two years and that we have to pay 400 dinars for it, I've asked you a question, and here I'm asking you a question, i.e. The application, the question, the request, I don't know how to formulate it either. Previous management, both at the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund, predicted that the health book should be three years, we are extending it now, but predicted that the health book would cost five euros and 16 cents. The current leadership, under you ministers and the Republic Fund, says the card will cost two euros and 96 cents. So two euros less. I asked a question, in addition to this two-year term, I'm grateful that you cut that price, and that's good, but I asked you a question, can we find out the names of the people who were in that Republic Fund? I don't want to join any party member, but someone made two years ago a price that costs two euros more. It is about 12m euros higher at the Serbia-wide level. I believe that this is an option, as much as my colleagues criticised me two days ago not to mention names and to speak casually, based on ordinary mathematics, I see that you saved 12m euros in this act with a price offer of three euros, and there were five euros and 16 cents. Someone added 12m euros to a higher price two and a half, three years ago. I asked to finally find out one epilogue of an affair. Whether it's well-intentioned or malicious, someone added a higher percentage. I don't know where that percentage would go, whether to finance a party or for his personal wealth, but I'm sure he was at the expense of Serbian citizens, and I think that's absolutely, at least the two of us, agree. Let's say once the names of those people who made that tender, as I now praise you that you have made a better price, to save 12 million euros, to say who these people are. It doesn't matter, if they're from the DS, tell them the names, if they're from G17, tell them the names of those people, so we can see who those people were in the Republic Fund, who made that astronomical price two years ago that they thought was no big deal. What, citizens, whether they will pay 600 dinars or 400 dinars, that is not terrible, and that is at the whole level of the Republic of Serbia 12m euros. Here's an affair. I don't know if you can go all the way, I'm giving you support as a colleague who wants to be honest and honest and still do his job, to say that it might be an attempt at some big affair. Not to cover everything up as "Gallenika", as "Torak", as we know something, but we don't know. I guess this is where you know the names of that tender commission, the people who suggested this health book. These are the things I asked for on the Committee on Health and Family and I'm very bold and here I'm saying that something stinks in this whole supply attempt, and I think we owe it to the citizens to say specifically about that price. Another thing that I also stressed on the Health and Family Committee today, which is my opinion that Serbian citizens should receive a free health book. I know you'll tell me, Mr. Becic, that's the theme of the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9319	So I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9320	If you'll excuse me, I can speak, since that's the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9322	Since the price of 400 dinars, when you say 400 dinars, and the law clearly defines it, that's true, 400 dinars should pay for the replacement of health books. I believe 400 dinars are not some sum of money, but for the average citizens of Serbia, for a vast number of Serbian citizens, I can say as much as 90% of Serbian citizens are the problem. When we talk about a health book costing only 400 dinars, I'll tell you that the average Serbian family is four members. So the average Serbian family should pay 1600 dinars, not 400, but 1600 dinars to replace the health book. So, 1600 dinars is your weekly average consumer basket for the average Serbian family. We here a few months ago had the opportunity to attend a session where Mr. Lazar Krstic, a former finance minister, boasted that he had found, along with RFZO executives, a surplus in the Republican Fund and then 300m euros changed from one poor health sector to a pension fund. And then, you weren't there, I said – you prejudge your future health minister for very difficult work, because you take 300m euros for the poor economic situation he has in the health sector. It's a huge amount of money for France, let alone Serbia. That's when it's said -- we have a surplus. Then we talked, we were against it, Mr. Lazar Krstic was talking about how savings happened and how this amount was transferred. I don't think the surplus was made so right, I think the surplus was made in some failed tenders and some slow public procurement and we try to get those 300m euros back to our health care system. What I'm saying is, the RFO needs to find some savings, some way to try not to charge Serbia's citizens, that, as banks send their cards to people at home, that we also apply in exchange for health books, that Serbian citizens don't have to collect some papers again and come to the counters of the Republic Fund to change the health book, but that for the first time they respect these human rights and that a replacement health book comes to their home address and that this health book doesn't cost them anything. I think 400 dinars, if you say it's not much, I tell you it is a lot, because a four-member family pays 1600 dinars. If 1600 dinars aren't much for someone, I think the Republic Fund must find some savings in an item to allow citizens this free health book, which will allow them, as we said, better quality health care and everything else. As for the health book itself and the debate on the subject, I think that the introduction of computerisation into all our hospitals is very important, I think it's a good thing, because that makes the use of drugs and the necessity of rationalization to see what a particular hospital needs, what we have extra, and that's how we're going to get. The electronic recipe is the same thing that we're going to save, the same solid percent of the money on unnecessary waste of paperwork that every doctor has to prescribe, write a specialist report. You relieve doctors, because doctors are not the administration that has to write every day, but doctors are there to treat with a health book, an electronic health card and an electronic prescription we move forward. I support that, but I support that if these conditions are met to reduce, it means that the administration is forced to sort out its work like you and I, we don't ask when we enter the O.R. when you go out, will you go out for 15 hours when your time is up, but when Professor Djukic completes an organ transplant, when you complete the operation. Let us finally put some responsibility for the people who are in this sector, and let us say – you must do and it is a year. I'd like that. If so, I understand that the assembly majority will vote on the opposite proposal and that it will be two years. Please, even if you vote for two years, don't give them time to eat locusts for another two years and change the law over two years and change the deadlines again and say, we're moving the deadline for another two years. Serbia has no time. Serbia, as far as health care is concerned, has to work a lot faster, and I'm going to finish, and I'm going to say hello to you for taking some steps that I, at the beginning of what you're doing, like, I'd like them, but I'd be stricter on that administration, so I'd give them a year. As far as the Republic Fund is concerned, I would find a way to provide Serbian citizens with free health books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9323	Thank you, Mr. Milisavlevich. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9324	Here's the thing, so if we weren't protecting something, hiding something, not wanting to publish names, I'd like to inform you that after this session, i.e. By tomorrow, all contracts and what exists will officially be handed over to the authorities, because I'm not an investigative authority, I can suspect as we all here suspect where those 12 million could go plus a million and 200 free. So it's not just 12 different prices, it's plus a million more and 200 going free. It is much more than 12m euros which, we all agree, for the country of Serbia are the money we dream of. So, I want to follow procedure. Tomorrow I deliver the contracts to the authorities, and it's up to them to decide what it is and how it is. I'll let you know personally which answer I got, because I'm asking the question. As for the questions about the data that will be in the book. I have to tell you, 31 years ago today, we haven't changed the Law of Records. That's the first law we'll come to the congregation with. You can't if you don't change the law to put everything we've listed, which you need to stand in that book. We have to change, the law is already at the end, the next one coming to the Assembly. It's basically that we would have all of this in the book, and we'd also have an electronic recipe and an electronic chart, because we don't want this job five times and we don't want to do it without it being finished. I am convinced that these books will be realised, even though it is seven million books, that they will be completed before this period we have given. We live in the country of Serbia, and we want to change, but I don't want to get into a situation that I promise so that it doesn't, I prefer that we end it earlier so that we know that we're done than to say – well, in a year, we'll remind ourselves of seven million people, it's about what you said about the bank sending the cards to home address, these cards, ask how much they cost, how many citizens they pay, and who arrive at home, from the bank or from anyone. They have their price. So, we're going to this period for a reason, because with 1,200,000 cards, we went to the most socially vulnerable, but since we have people who we agree that 400 dinars, 800 dinars, a serious budget cost, that people can plan that cost, because I remind you not in one contract so far, it didn't cost that those cards would be paid by someone else, the state, the fund, anyone. In no contract, no annex said anyone else would pay, and you know when the contract was made. So this gives time to our families, threatened to be able to plan their budget, and we also give time to some savings, or rationalization, not to tell the savings, because we need to talk openly. It's just that we mentioned that we've reduced something. We all know where that money went. Whether we say it or not is something. So that was the difference in real price and the price at which something was sold. That's what the sparrows on the branch know. I'm convinced there's still room for us to come to real prices, and when we get to real prices, surely one of the priorities will be, where we rationalize, not save, that there's money for some more categories to pay for them books. But I prefer that we do it more than make a pompous announcement, so it's either out of it or out of it. So that's the principle we follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9325	Mr. Minister, he apologizes, but you, as well as the MPs, have two minutes. Because of the seriousness of the debate, I've allowed a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9326	All right, but that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9327	Thank you. The People's MP, Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, the Honorable Guests, I have four notes directed towards Mr. Loncar regarding the amendment that he has tabled here and Dr. Milisavljevic. The first note concerns something Mr. Milisavljevic also mentioned in his speech here, which is an explanation for the draft laws or for amendments coming from the government, which in this case is, for example, from the Ministry of Health. I would only ask Mr. Lonchar, once again, that would be the third time, that in the future, what was it, but that in the future we have arguments that clearly present attention to the language we are serving. I think I've illustrated a kind of negligence towards the language twice here, and for me, this kind of negligence towards the language of negligence towards the Assembly, towards the citizens, and in this case, perhaps for some patients. In this home, I mean, it's necessary very precise and accurate to use words. Just please, in the future, we don't have that kind of negligence. The second thing, which goes to the heart of what Mr. Milisavljevic's proposal is about efficiency. Mr. Milisavljevic told you here and this amendment actually suggested, that it would be good for that deadline to be something shorter after all. I agree with Mr. Milisavljevic. You've announced that there's another logic that it might be good to give some longer time not to go with pompous announcements, so if we do something sooner, then it'll be okay. I prefer the choice of these two types of roads, yet I prefer the path of Dr. Milisavljevic, because if we follow this path, we give a longer deadline, Mr. Loncar, then we could conclude this way – well, why didn't we put that cards to apply on December 31st, 2020, and there's a lot of time, we'll probably end up early, we didn't pompously announce, and what would be the consequence? The result will be, that people will be dealing with it and see that there is plenty of time until then. Surely they will not be very committed to this issue that is now important to us for the change of our plan. That's why I think this position that Dr. Milisavljevic offers, which is a position that rests on the principle of efficiency, is much better for our work here together. In other words, that some shorter deadlines are given, that all people who do so are of course more dedicated to their work, and of course we all try to achieve what is common to us, not only the goal, but also the interest. The third thing, Mr. Lonchar, I must now point out to you, is the card for which the amendment here is now making a reduction in time for application, and you think it should start to apply on 31 December 2016, the card is just a reflection of some of the principles on which it is based, for example. transformation of the health system. We have suggested here that perhaps you should appear in the Assembly with a proposal of these principles on the basis of which we can see how this health care system will be reformed, for example. I believe that you agree, and there is no doubt about it that one of the greatest fears among humans is fear of inability to treat. Couldn't we today and when we talked in principle about this bill, agree here that this fear should not exist with the citizens of Serbia, so that we can tie one of these principles to these cards as well? Then let's tell the citizens -- citizens, that you know that the Ministry of Health is now working on primary health care to be free of charge for everyone. To apply a system that will allow citizens not to have that fear of inability to treat. Now citizens are directed to see if they will have to single out 400 or 500 dinars for one card, and now we hear for example. that these cards can't even be applied because they have to be aligned with someone else, third or fourth. I thought it was important that when I talk about these cards, we get attached to some principles, so you can announce what's all this reformal stuff you're preparing. The last thing, Mr. Becic, I see that the finger is already on the taster, it stands out for five minutes, the government should have, Mr. Loncar, come and say, we've committed a violation because we're a month in lawlessness, and then to discuss the bill, that would be the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9329	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot of what I intended to say was said by the minister. I like it when there are some things that are interesting, general practitioners, as my colleague has just discussed, topics that are not so close to him, believing he knows every topic. We have discussed this amendment very extensively today, I think we have illuminated it from all sides, and that almost unanimously, with one vote against, we have agreed that the government has absolutely rightly done what it has rejected this amendment. It's about one thing. The government, now run by Aleksandar Vukic, is a very responsible government that takes care of both what it says and what it does, and the promises it makes to the citizens of Serbia. The deadline given until December 2016 has been recognised as a real deadline for all the jobs needed in connection with this card to be completed. This means electronic recipe, electronic cardboard, means networking of all health institutions, health homes, etc. and any accompanying techniques required to introduce this card into the system of use. This deadline isn't fixed, it's not said to be over then. There's a chance we can finish this sooner. So, as responsible people, as a responsible government, they've given a reasonable deadline by which it will surely be over, but they're also keeping the possibility, which I hope, that this deadline will be over early, means that this whole job will be done sooner. So there's no room, as responsible people, to say now we'll do it in a year, and then we'll meet again and extend the deadline for another year or a year or a half, which, in any case, is not what serious people do. I think the insistence is that we give a deadline of one year, it represents more than one such political demagogue, to put us in a situation where we kind of embarrass ourselves with it, and that this is more reasonable, much more comprehensively what we've already proposed. I don't know if I can talk about the next amendment, i.e. about the price of the card?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9331	You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9332	I can't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9333	Professor Vladimir Pavicevic reported in his own words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Becic, in relation to other situations, this may be less important, but still important, since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think he's just been injured by article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when Mr. Mijatovic said in his speech very clearly to me that I am a debater of general practice. I think it's a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it says in that article, Mr. Becic, that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. This means that each MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the second MP, thus respecting the dignity of the National Assembly as a whole. I would ask you to remind Mr Mijatovic that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have repeatedly repeated this here to some other MPs, that this is not a professional body, this is not an office, so when Minister Loncar comes here and suggests something from the health care system or health insurance system, that only one doctor can talk about it, for example Dr Mijatovic. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Becic, please transfer to Mr. Mijatovic, is a central political institution in the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia. This means that the only decent behaviour of the MPs is to take part in the debate on all the points of the agenda for which they are being prepared. I am prepared here to discuss every item of the agenda, and even when, for example, Minister Loncar proposes to amend only one member of the Health Insurance Act. I believe this represents a dignified respect and I think you should warn Mr. Mijatovic that he has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9335	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm sorry I didn't hear in Mr. Mijatovic's speech that that's how he qualified us. If I had, I would have warned. Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9336	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I am fully in agreement with you that we must stay away from the flat-rate and hasty decisions that have often been made in the past, so we now have a problem of human resources in the system of health care. This deadline that you have offered by 31 December 2016 is considered optimal, because when we talk about replacing a health document by electronic means, we need to know the procedure of that replacement. I'd just like to remind you that, for example, the replacement of old-age forms for new health books lasted three years. This project replaces the health documents by electronic means is a comprehensive project which is not solely dependent on the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but also depends on the insurance company and I believe that the Government and the Ministry have rightly rejected the proposed amendment of opposition MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9337	I thank Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9338	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, members of his team, honourable MPs, above all, I would refer first to what our citizens are most interested in, and that is that the deadline for replacing health books does not affect the right of insurance providers from compulsory health insurance. So, as long as this procedure lasts, replacing paper health books into electronics, all insurance companies will have insurance and health care in the same way they had until then. Also, I believe that the deadline provided by the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is 31 December 2016, is optimal for the service of making personalisation and distribution of health cards, but I am also convinced, as well as Mr Minister, that the deadline for implementing this project will be significantly shorter and I am convinced that the procedure will also be transparent, so in this sense I really do not have a dilemma. As for the contract that was made by the opposition colleagues, I'll just say that the basic contract and the two annexes, whose price is defined, I'm talking about the price of the electronic card, were signed during 2010. As I recall, the contract was signed in February, the first annex on 8 March 2010, and the second annex on 10 May 2010, when the prices for electronic cards were defined. First, there were 5.16 contracts, then 3,87 and then 2.96 euros without VAT. All contracts were signed during the ruling of the DS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9339	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9340	Dear Chairman, as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, I have only come to mention the presentation of Mr Laketić and the mention of the contracts made during a period when there was another set of people in the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health. I think you heard me correctly. I am clearly and publicly looking for the names of the people, no matter from which party. I have no intention of bearing the responsibility of some of the past. So, I know my cheek is clean, I know which family I come from, and I'm looking for the names of people who have sinned, people who have wanted to put 12 million euros in either their pockets or the pockets of their political parties. Let's just say we're actually going to fight corruption once. Don't mention it again. It's their fault. Let's hear those names and process these people. I didn't say anything else then, and now I repeat publicly and clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9341	I thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is proposed by the amendment of Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished professors, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the Health Insurance Act and to Article 1 which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which says that part of Article 52 is changing. The Health Protection Act, saying: “In three years from the date of entry into force of this law,” replaces the words “until 31 December 2016”, where the Ministry of Explanatory is, I will read you a few sentences as the MPs know it, but the citizens do not know, to bring them into the story of what I wanted to do with the amendment and what I think about what the Ministry is, i.e. the Government rejected this amendment. It is an amendment to the deadline for the completion of the action to divide or process the distribution of electronic health cards to Serbian citizens who are insurance providers of compulsory health insurance. He says, "By postponing the deadline for the replacement of insurance documents, as well as special means for the use of health care with a health card until 31 December 2016," I remind you that the applicable law requires all of this to be completed on 31 December 2014, "providing a technical precondition for a timely replacement of insurance documents, as well as special means for the use of health care with a health card, thus ensuring the smooth exercise of the rights covered by mandatory health insurance, as well as the functioning of a compulsory health insurance system". That's not true. He further says: “For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic's 2014 budget, as Articles 112, paragraphs 3 and 4, are to be added to Article 112. The health insurance law is prescribed under paragraphs 3 and 4 that the cost of issuing a health card is borne by the insurance undertaking for itself and family members. With regard to the position of the 5th said member, it is prescribed that he is an exclusive obligor of the payment of contributions, i.e. another legal or natural person, or the Republic Health Insurance Fund, may take the obligation to pay the cost of issuing a health card, the means of implementing this Act for 2015 and continue to be donated in accordance with the balance options of the Republic, as well as in the framework of the financial plans of the Republic Health Insurance Fund." As far as I understand it, this has given the Ministry the possibility that the Fund, i.e. the Republic budget, would pay the card. I have made an amendment that reads, leading to what I received from the Government and the Ministry of Health - In Article 1: "until 31 December 2016" is replaced by the words "until 31 December 2015" and I add that a new position of 2 is added after Title 1 – Costs of replacing the insurance document, as well as special instruments for the use of health care under Title 1 with a health card, fall under the burden of the Republic Fund. Position 2 so far becomes item 3. I have explained that I am of the opinion that the deadline for a full replacement of existing medical card documents is prescribed by the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act on 31 December 2016, which now corresponds to me on the basis of the rejected amendment, that this deadline is optimal, given all necessary activities to be implemented in order to fully introduce it into the health insurance system. In particular, all necessary technical measures have been taken into account when proposing the deadline. So, the ministry reiterates that technical measures should be done, as if nothing has been done so far on this matter, which is accompanied by the procedure of issuing a health card for about seven million insured persons of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and especially the services of making, personalisation and distribution of health cards. We are also of the opinion that the above-mentioned amendment in the part relating to the costs of replacing the insurance document, as well as the special instruments for the use of health care, cannot be accepted by a health card for formal legal reasons. This is meant by my proposal that the Republic Fund, i.e. the budget of the Republic of Serbia in a translated sense, because the Republic Fund is part of the Republic of Serbia's budget for the current year, cannot be accepted for formal legal reasons because the issue of the cost of issuing a health card has been fully regulated by the Health Insurance Act in Article 112(4). Mr. Minister, I have no doubt that you have an honest intention at all, but this is more about your associates giving you this signing act. That member also has an attitude 5. It's the same member of that law. It is prescribed that the cost of issuing a health card is borne by the insurance company for itself and by members of its family. Also, the issue of the cost of issuing a health card is not the subject of the proposed amendments to the law. As far as I know, distinguished colleagues, we form laws here, we write laws, and everything that comes from the government becomes a law only when we adopt here, that everything that the National Assembly adopts becomes a law. If we agree to the Republic Fund, i.e. The budget of the Republic of Serbia should bear the cost, it becomes the law. I don't see how it can change a part of the law that applies to the time of the issue of cards, and that's where we can change the law, and when we have to change that insurance companies don't pay extra cards, then we can't change the law. Dear colleague, I would ask you to draw attention to your associates, because yet you sign this, and behind you is signed by the Prime Minister, to take care of what is sent to the National Assembly, because there are MPs, and I believe the vast majority, who reads very carefully, and if they do not know what they read and if they are not lawyers, she asks the lawyer to explain it to him. Now I'd like to explain why I think it's possible to accept my amendment. As the debaters have repeated several times, the electronic card or health insurance card, it is a professional name in the Republic Fund, is part of a system that contains three things: electronic cardboard, electronic prescription and electronic health card. What is the benefits of these three elements that we want to introduce into Serbian health care? Benefit, firstly, saves the material costs of the Republic Fund, i.e. insurance companies through the Republic Fund, pay for everything called health administration. That's one thing. So, no more shopping for cardboard, prescriptions, instructions, all that is used in offices and hospitals, as regards the recording of disease, disease flow, protocol and various other papers used in administration. So there's no such thing. Secondly, what's very important is that there are no more written recipes, no more recipe purchases by the Republic Fund, no possibility of abuse of counterfeiting, correspondence, although they are now protected by bar code, but completely excludes the ability to manipulate recipes, so that there will be no more possibility of a patient wearing a prescription, but a patient with his card goes to the pharmacy, they read his bar code and exits what his doctor prescribed and gets it. Thirdly, very important for the Serbian health care system and today's treatment in the infirmary is to save the doctor's time. Doctors of their time, especially in primary health, use it for administration. First, it types into the electronic chart what it was doing, which the recipe it needed, and then puts it all in the paper file that the Ministry requires through its inspectors to continue to be present in health institutions, although there is an electronic chart. They even go to that level of mistrust with doctors, or it's so prescribed by the law on that data, that they demand not to print the part that they type into the computer, but to write it by hand, because they don't believe that what is printed is true and that something isn't manipulated by it. Instead of going to the fact that the sooner we reduce the administration, free the administration doctors, we want to give it two more years. This is where the Ministry says there's a reason for technical possibilities. Through the DILS program, it's a program with our friends abroad, we've computerized the maltene health institution in 100% of the cases. When I say: maltenes in 100% of cases, I mean, first of all, big cities, big centers and where it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9343	Mr. Bradich, with all due respect, I'm just asking you to get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9344	We will, so I'm talking about the subject. I'm really sorry, I'm not talking about agriculture, I'm talking about health care. If you're not interested in what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9345	Mr. Bradiche, but you've submitted an amendment where you're asking me to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9346	No, I'm talking about technical possibilities, because the Ministry said for the reason my amendment was rejected that technical measures should be taken, i.e. that there is no technically equipped Serbian health care. I say yes, that's what I'm talking about. I'm sticking strictly to what I got in response to the government and the Ministry. So, technical measures are being met, and more than that, I don't know about other cities, and they probably have, in the town of Nis, at the Institute of Public Health, I said two days ago, there's a server that needs to support the networking of all these electronic systems. What is missing and what I believe the Minister through the Republic Fund will implement very quickly is an electronic chart universal, uniform, whatever you call it, which will be the same for all of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't. Each institution ordered for itself a special electronic chart, in order to have one central base, must be unique to that electronic chart. Anything else can. So, the technical possibility of refusing this doesn't exist. What needs to be bought is readers, as my predecessors have said. This is a negligible sum for the Republic Fund, 60,000 euros for the level of Serbia as a whole. Why do I insist that my amendment be accepted to be completed by the end of 2015? It's not another year, it's another 16 months. For the simple reason, that year's paperwork Serbian health, i.e. The republican fund costs about three million euros. These three million euros can be used by the Ministry in a much smarter way, in a better way, than they will be given again in the paper and in double administration, because health institutions, despite the electronic system that they have, which is being introduced, are still forced to, and that exists in your clinics, to write their reports by hand and to have in paper form, which is not necessary. Why do I say it needs to be free? Because all Serbian health insurance companies pay contributions to health insurance, because it's illogical for me to pay something as an insurance company to pay extra to use what I paid for. The Republic Health Insurance Fund receives money from an insurance company that, with help, By channeling the Ministry of Health, it's directed towards patients. Three months ago, my predecessors were saying, the finance minister, I mean that you in the government agreed that he didn't self-initiatively do it, he said there was a surplus, so two days ago we agreed that there was no savings in health, but there was rational spending, because that's how you do it, bravo for you, allal faith. But that money was transferred to retirement insurance with a note that there's no need to use Serbian healthcare anymore because there's enough money, so if there's enough money, then why do people pay an electronic card for another 400 or 500 dinars? I think and appeal to fellow MPs to accept my amendment, because this will first bring great savings to the Republic Fund, which can be much smarter used than to be given on paper and paper. On the other hand, I urge you to accept the amendment for reasons that there is no need to burden the citizens of Serbia who are the insurance companies of the Republic Health Insurance Fund to pay extra for their card. What has been said so far about the tender and abuse, just to point out, I am also in favour of having to examine, that this was called in 2009, that the contract was signed in 2010, that the tender was won by the Banknote Bureau, that the annexes were created so that the current valid price repromated the price of the electronic card. So I don't see where it was. Maybe there is, I don't know, that's what you're gonna find out. I don't see any reason for the manipulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9347	I ask my colleagues to allow Mr. Bradic to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9348	I'm really trying to get every speaker in this room, no matter how much I talk, whether in the topic or off topic, to listen very carefully, from 10.00 hours, to the session. I think colleagues should listen to their colleagues, so they just thought the diametric opposite of me. I'm using the time of my mandated proposing and two minutes after the amendment. From 2010 to 2011 i.e. In the first half of 2012, when the government determined the price of the card, I would ask you to read the exact data. So the contract didn't set the price. The contract determined the cost of production, and the price per capita was determined by the government, not the Republic Fund or the Ministry of Health. I don't give a shit about anyone, but those are the facts. I think what you were supposed to do from 2012 to 2014, and you didn't, as your associates say, for objective reasons... I've asked three times what objective reasons are, I haven't heard. To remind citizens, this congregation majority has been headed by the Ministry of Health since 2012, not since 2014. Here sits one former minister and one former assistant minister. I don't see what the problem was, because under that contract you were supposed to share 100,000 cards in Valjevo, which was supposed to be a test series, to see how it works in real life, you divided at the end of 2013 into only 600 cards. I expected you, Minister, to say what the reason was, why it wasn't finished by the end of this million and 100, 200 grand, because there are different data that were already done in 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9349	Mr. Bradiche, time's up. Fifteen minutes plus two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9350	I thank you, and I hope you will support my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9351	Thank you. Mr. Milisavljevic, you've applied, but I've made it possible for you to explain this one as well, so I'd like to ask you if... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9352	I was going to say that I'm using the time of the parliamentary group, given that my colleague Bradic is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9353	I know, but I understood that you would...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9354	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9355	I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9356	My colleague, I agree and support this amendment. I support and repeat the idea that insurance companies, to allow citizens of Serbia to have a free health book equally. When a colleague Bradic spoke about this amendment, we mentioned that a million and 100,000 health books had already been made and that they would be distributed to the poorest citizens of Serbia. I'm asking, since I don't have the information, has the state of Serbia made any social cards to share her medical records with? How are we going to share those health books? What are the criteria for the division of the poorest citizens? I'm telling you that 90% of Serbian citizens are poor. What's the limit? Do we have social cards and how are we going to share these health books with the most vulnerable and the poorest? That's why, I repeat repeatedly, it's not just a health book of 400 dinars, it's for a four-member family of 1,600 dinars. A great burden is 1,600 dinars for someone who has to give at one point, when they have 20,000 or 25,000 dinars of salary, or pensioner, to provide for their family these health books. The third question is, I don't understand how we're going to distribute these health books to insurance companies, by mail or by coming to the counter of the Republic Fund? It's also unsettled. That is why it is necessary, that the proposal that I made in the previous presentation, that a new health book should arrive to Serbian citizens at the postal address, through the letter. Please and I support the adoption of this amendment by my colleagues, Bradic, and to provide all citizens of Serbia with a free health book. Once again, as a parrot, 400 dinars are much for the citizens of Serbia, especially for the four-member family, who is due to pay 1,600 dinars for extracting new documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9357	I thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich, for your correctness. The word has a minister in the government, Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9358	I said last time, that in co-operation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, according to a set of criteria, will get the most socially endangered, according to the criteria that exist. It's the only way to be transparent and to do it according to the protocols that we currently have. We can't invent new ones, we can't now I don't know what to do, but according to the ones we have, we'll be led by the ones who are official. I don't know what data you're working on, but we've heard the fact that we've done 98%, DILS projects and so on, we've created an information system in Serbia's healthcare. I have to tell you, according to the budgets that exist, we've spent so much money we could do that system, but I don't know how you can say it here that we have that system? If we had that system, we'd be Switzerland. That there is, what you tell the citizens, that we 98% of the DILS project have done and that there is this system. Not to say how many computers are missing, not to say that this system isn't connected, not to say that this system isn't compatible at all, not to say that we bought one system for infomedis, that one system was a path of cure, that the third system was informational, and that for each system we bought by computer, and now we have three computers on the table, one for infosystem, one for the cure and one for the third that we had a database. None of them are networked or connected. The fact is that so much money has been spent that it's supposed to work by now, and you're right. I'm interested in one thing. Why didn't you stand up for it in 2010 and say that the books were free when you signed the contracts when you passed the law? At that time, the price was much more expensive and there were no million and 200 cards to go for the most socially endangered. What happened, so today you stand up so hard, and then you don't stand up for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9359	The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9360	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected professors, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, which lasted about one member of the amendment to the Insurance Act for two days, I can say that I am personally pleased that we all agreed on one, and that is that the initiative of the Ministry and the desire to move on to electronic health that path and one civilizational fluid to which we, I hope, will come as a country. We all agreed that the introduction of an electronic card, an electronic recipe, of an electronic cardboard is something that will help our patients a lot, but also doctors in the work, to avoid the vast administration that began in 2000 when a series of different decisions and laws burdened doctors and nurses in the review became totally unbearable. Therefore, we are now talking about how this should have been done earlier, I agree, if it had been fortunate, such electronic health would have been brought to life by 2001, 2002, 2003 or 2004, as has been done in the EU and some other non-EU countries. But talking about speed and how to work, I think it's absurd, because only what's well done is done quickly. If we had set the deadline and it was until June 2016, then probably someone from the opposition would have said – not until June, give it until May 2016. We can push everything into absurdity, but the bottom line is that someone calculated it very well and optimally determined it for a while. If God wants it to be sooner, that's better. And bid now in months and search and call for some great savings, which are certainly going to be, and those savings were supposed to be much, much earlier than they came today, especially from those who have been in health care for 12 years, I don't think it makes any sense. This demagogy is expressed at that price of a book or card, which was supposed to cost 400 dinars. A million and 200,000 free cards have been set for our most socially endangered citizens. At the time of 2010, the price was 700 dinars. Now imagine that absurdity, that someone today advocates that it should be cheaper than 400 dinars, and once advocated to be 700 dinars. I hope that through the social map we will be able to release another number of our citizens and that there will be no such burden. I'm against being freed, especially by people who can pay, because it's a kind of solidarity for other people. Personally, I wouldn't let me not pay for that card, or I want to pay for someone else to get it for free. And not just me, but many others, too, who can do it. The job of getting these cards and the whole technical thing about personalization, about division, I think that this country, which has decided to work very professionally, pedantically and responsibly at all levels, and especially the Ministry of Health, which has been affected by the quality of the work of our health, you have seen in specialization, in transplanting, in bringing foreign experts to train our staff, that this is one meaningful strategy that goes forward, step by step, and that will give its results. Don't worry about it at all. Don't worry about it, you who brought us here to be the last in Europe when it comes to health care. Let us return that healthcare, if anything, at least in the middle of European knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9361	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9362	Dear Vice President, Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Minister of Loncar, I have one question for the chairman, if not a problem, within the time of the parliamentary group. I see that all MPs here are ruling coalitions. Something seems to be happening. We didn't get any notice. There can only be two reasons - is the Prime Minister coming, Mr. Vukic, or is it a vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9363	Mr. Vesenovic, I informed Mr. Bradic before the break that we were expecting sometime after 4:00 p.m., when we have finished this second amendment, the vote on this set of laws and that we should finish this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9364	Mr. Bradic, by all accounts, has not been able to pass it on to us. We're getting ready for a discussion. But it would be quite common for the heads of parliament to get a notice, at least in the morning, that there would be a vote that day. This is unusual. Two days in a row, we have an ad hoc vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9365	Mr. Veselinović, another announcement. Technical secretaries in your parliamentary groups have been informed that a vote is expected around 1600 hours. If that didn't happen to happen to your technical secretary, I apologize and that failure will never happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9366	So it's still a vote, not a prime minister coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9367	You'd love to see the Prime Minister here, but he's in very important state affairs, you know where. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9368	So this question, Minister, about not accepting this amendment is in some way a paradigm and a state of health and condition in our society. I'll tell you why. A colleague before me, Mr. Milisavljevic, said that there are no social cards and that it is not quite clear on what criteria you will share free health books that will be made by 2016. The situation in relation to the time of law-making has changed. The citizens are impoverished. They will be further impoverished by wage cuts, and 400 dinars will not be small enough to pay for health books, especially if they are multi-member families. You always mention a million-and-200-free medical books. I'm afraid, Mr. Loncar, that this number is at least twice as large and that the number of those families that are socially endangered in Serbia is close to three million. In this regard, I believe that you should have accepted the amendment of your colleague Bradic and I believe that all citizens of health insurance should have received free new health books. I'll tell you a comparative example, so you might change your mind and accept this amendment. In another case, it was done the opposite way. According to Prime Minister Vukic's promise, the television subscription is now free of charge. So, on the one hand, we'll pay for the medical books, and on the other hand, we won't pay for the television subscription. Tell me, Mr. Lonchar, I'm not sure, I don't think you're from that profession, but maybe your colleagues know something about it, does watching television have any healing properties, so maybe that's why this is free of charge, and your health books aren't free of charge?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9369	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, not to make such comparisons and not to go with such qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9370	Mr. Becic, what's unworthy of this? So, television subscription is recommended by the government and the decision of this Assembly does not pay, and health books will be paid. Let the minister draw his own conclusion whether it's a priority for a citizen to have a health book or if it's a priority to watch TV for free? So I ask the minister. In that sense, it's my question. I said I wasn't an expert, and probably not him, for that, but that I was to assess. In that sense, I believe that this is an additional argument, Mr. Loncar, with this comparison, to advocate that citizens' health books get free of charge. Because if they don't get them for free, the question is, will they be able to buy them? Even, the word - they buy, for a health book somehow doesn't work. So, you buy a health book. If, as colleagues have said, the salaries of health insurance are certainly the right to that health insurance is verified through the health book, which is required to provide the healthcare provider, and in this case the Health Insurance Fund, which collects income. On the other hand, I think that you should have accepted the second part of the amendment on the deadline until when it is necessary for these new electronic health books to be available to all citizens and that it was enough for this to be the end of 2015. Someone listed some of the benefits of electronic health books. They don't mean carrying a prescription to a pharmacy. In the pharmacy, they should already, when the doctor does an electronic warrant, have a record that this person has the right to lift his meds. In some countries you do not need to go to a doctor to get a prescription for medicine. It's enough to contact your doctor by phone and say that you feel that way and that you feel that you should get a cure for the next period. An electronic doctor gives a warrant to all the pharmacies in the system and you can lift your medicine anywhere. It's the benefit we're talking about, and I don't think we should wait for that end of 2016, Mr. Lonchar. In that sense, I suggest you accept this amendment. If you do not accept it, I suggest that the MPs vote in favour of Mr Bradic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9371	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9372	First, I want to tell you that I am in this government because I am absolutely sure that the goal of Prime Minister Vukic is for our people to live better and to do everything, wherever they can, to make it easier for them to live better and have less costs. But I openly say what kind of situation we're in, what our real options are, what we found and what we need to do to make ourselves better. It's very open. I'm asking you one more time, with all the facts you've made, just tell me why you didn't put that item in 2010. And then everything was paid for, but you put it to the insurance company. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9373	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9374	Since we are already far away, and we should vote, I will be very short because of the citizens of Serbia. I think it's already clear to the MPs what this is about, and I wouldn't be dealing with the political marketing and demagogue I've heard so far. Serbian citizens should know one thing, which is what the minister said and what it is, which is that a million and 200 cards will be distributed free of charge to those who are socially endangered and who are unable to pay the health book. However, this figure is not nailed, this does not mean that if there are more people who are socially endangered and unable to pay for this health card, they will also be given a health card free of charge. So, they're going to pay the card for those people who are financially able to pay for that card, as we've so far paid for all the documents we've had to pay for, and so is this. Not and not the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund will be burdened with sharing free of charge for some demagogue reasons, but will be bought by people who can do so, and those who are unable to care, will get cards free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9375	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9376	Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you and all my fellow MPs why the JS Parliament Club will not support the second part of Mr. Bradic's amendment. For the simple reason that this parliamentary club respects the Rules of Procedure, which is the work of the National Assembly and cannot vote against the Rules of Procedure, because it says in the Rules of Procedure that amendments cannot be made to draft laws that are not proposed by the Government when it comes to amending and supplementing the laws. Therefore, the government did not propose a price, to change the cost of making and who would pay the e-cards, but only suggested changing the date and please do not discuss it. I am sorry that someone who has been here for ten or more years has had these experienced MPs, cannot and will not read the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say so. Mr. Chairman, I didn't want to call to advertise Article 106(2). Rules of Procedure. You've been violating the Rules of Procedure all afternoon since 15.00 hours. You let everything and everything be talked about, not just the subject. Today we lost an hour talking about prices, some other things, and this is not the subject of a proposal to amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act. When it comes to the agenda, we'll discuss it. Since television is transmitting, and then we need to take care of the citizens all in order based on common sense and logic, here I am, based on my common sense and logic, saying that we should read the Rules of Procedure and literally apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9377	The People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic came forward. You're right, Mr. Petrovic. Now I'm going to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly. Who doesn't talk about the subject according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask all the lawyers in positions and opposition to listen to me for two minutes so they can say I'm wrong because it's been said that I'm not in the topic. In the light of the Government's proposal, I received in the work, a colleague, who says - a percentage of the financial resources needed to implement the law, that on the basis of Articles 112 and 4 The Health Insurance Act is prescribed that health card costs are borne by insurance and family members. That's what it says here. It was signed by the Prime Minister. The next indent – given that the position of Article 5 of the same law is 112, on which those who propose this, the said member, is prescribed that an extremely binding payment of contributions, i.e. a second legal or physical person, or the Republic Health Insurance Fund, may undertake obligations to pay for the issue of a health card. Funds for the implementation of this 2015 law are further planned in accordance with the balance sheet options of the Republic, as well as in the framework of the available funds planned for the financial plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund. Dude, you don't read the material. The chairman, the colleague did not read the material because he followed my discussion last time, i.e. On the previous day, I said that there are 500 million dinars in the budget of the Republic Fund in place – health books. So, the Ministry of Continuity, because you've been in power since 2012, has foreseen 500 million dinars for paying the books that you have in place, the adjunction for books, and here you say that the republican budget for 2015 can predict a further payment. It was the basis for me to suggest that he be free because I think it makes sense that people don't pay twice what they pay through contributions, and there are lawyers and let them say if I'm wrong. If I'm wrong, sin on my soul. One more thing to tell you, the time of the parliamentary group, I have asked and expect an answer from Mr. Secretary. Mr. Minister, I know you've been here for a few months, but you're in charge of inheriting the duties of the previous ministers, no matter what he does and the obligations he's made before the minister and the actions he's done, you have to follow it until the facts change. You said by hiring the current leadership of the Ministry, you and your associates, a six-million-euro note-making office was prevented because of the lack of payment by the Republic Fund, that this was avoided and that the Banknote Protection Office, so I realized, gave it to the Ministry i.e. It's a 1.2 million print-off fund. Who put the pressure on something that was paid by budget means to make up for the insurance, because it's for insurance. Those cards? Who made the decision to pay the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget because the Banknote Agency is working on the basis of the Republic of Serbia's budgets? Who made that decision? That's the first question. Is there a new card-making tender being opened or are you working on a contract signed in 2010 with both annexes? That's another question. Third question, i.e. my answer to what you said – am I sure. I said that most health institutions, I guess 90% in mass, and more is that if Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis provide computers, a large part of the computer is needed for Serbian health care because it is not the same as a Nish and a Nish. Whether it's a computer with an adequate program or not, I don't really know. I can only do what I read, and that's your job to get in line for what you have the support to do if you do what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9379	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you can't return one amendment. I apologize and Dr. Janko Veselinović, Mr. Bradic has wasted his time and you have no more time. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. On what grounds? You have no right to a replica. You can use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been in the Assembly for a long time, but for the first time, I've heard that as a MP, I have to decide and make a decision on the arguments. So far, I have decided on a draft law by individual members, amendments, etc. Explanations for a bill or for a proposal to amend and supplement the law can be good, less good or bad. We MPs will assess what they are, but we, when we press these tasters – for, abstention or against, we decide whether we will vote in favour of the law, for amendments to the law, and not whether we will vote on the argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9381	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm just asking you not to use the Rules of Procedure, because you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9382	Chairman, Article 107. I thought I'd have time, so within the time of the parliamentary group, I'd look back at what Mr. Petrovic said. I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you had to have Mr. Peter Petrovic, whom I sometimes accidentally, and sometimes deliberately mention, when he said the MPs were speaking because there was a television broadcast. The MPs speak because they were chosen by the people to represent their interests, whether they were televised or not. Personally, if I had my own TV, I wouldn't talk and I wouldn't be forced to talk here. To take the opportunity, if possible, to just give an answer to the minister, that's half a minute. So, Mr. Minister, in 2010, it was not estimated that citizens should receive free medical books for the reason that their economic situation was better. In the meantime, she got worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9383	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have been asked some questions that have nothing to do with the law. It doesn't need to be a top-notch lawyer, and I'm not, not top-notch, but I'm not a lawyer at all, to see that the application of this law really doesn't require material resources. This law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act has two members. In the first article, for Mr. Bradic, without a desire to challenge the replica, respecting the expertise of Mr. Bradic, but you can see the prolonging of the deadline for the introduction of electronic health books. Is this the kind of decision that financial resources are needed? No, they're not necessary and they don't have to answer to lawyers. It's enough to answer common sense and logic and read the law. What is important in this law and why the SNS will support amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act are two concepts, two policies, two relations with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One relationship is that these health books are agreed to cost 5.16 euros per piece, correct me, Mr. Minister, if I'm wrong, without VAT. Now, according to the second concept, according to the responsible government, for responsible people run by the Ministry of Health, that amount is 2.96 euros. Under an irresponsible relationship, no one, whether they were socially endangered or not, predicted that they would receive any free medical books. By proper negotiation, by the serious relationship that the Ministry of Health has, not only with this problem, but also with everything he has been entrusted with, the million and 200,000 most vulnerable citizens of the Republic of Serbia will get these books for free. That's the difference in the view of politics and that's the difference between trusted resources. Therefore, the SNS, I believe in the next few minutes or ten minutes, when we approach the vote, will support this legislative proposal because it is more favourable for the Republic of Serbia's budget, because it is more favourable for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it sees the reality that unfortunately there are people in Serbia who are socially endangered, because it paints reality, because we do not want to go out to Serbian citizens and say – in 2012, there were no social threats, and there were only because of cheap political points. That is why such things will always have support in both the SNS and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-10-0.u9385	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 10 September 2014, starting at 16pm and 45 minutes, as a day for voting on all agenda points of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2014, except for those points of the agenda that the National Assembly had voted on earlier. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 153 MPs are present in the hall at the moment, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v – 10, abstentions – one, did not vote – two, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of 164 votes, has adopted the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs of Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović to Article 2 with correction, academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, members 17 and 39, Dr. Vladimir Orlic and Mirjana Andrić to members 21 and 42, Zlata Đerić, member 40, as well as amendments to the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, to Articles 17 and 36. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 161 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandar Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – one, the abstention – there is no, no vote – 165 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – four, against – one, with abstention – 174 of all 179 MPs present. He finds that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandar Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shajip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—176 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—171 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted – 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm canceling the vote because there's been a technical error. Please, I'll repeat the vote. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 171 of the total of 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 179 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic and the joint MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic and the joint MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 178 of the total of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 173 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic and the joint MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 166 of the total of 178 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Milena Bicanin, Ljiljana Nestorović and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 17th amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Korac to Article 24. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo and MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment with corrections was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – 11 abstentions – there are no, four of the 177 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Civil Servants Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – 10 abstentions – there are no, three of the 177 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendments of the People's MPs: Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 12, Zoran Babic to members 16 and 30, and Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanović and Balša Bozovic to Article 27, as well as amendments of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Members 19 and 20. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the Third Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 175 out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted an amendment to Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 25. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted an amendment to the article. Three, four, five, six, nine, and 25. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 167 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to the Fourth Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 171 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three against – 170 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – 170 of the total of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 173 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—167 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—167 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 174 of the total of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 168 of the total of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 170 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—172 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted the 8th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—166 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—166 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—166 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Milena Bicanin, Ljiljana Nestorović and Dr. Muamer Bačevac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—ten, against—no one, the abstentioned—one, voted—164 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 169 of all 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four, against – no one who has been abstention – no vote – 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balža Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –10, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 166 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – three, against – 173 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 175 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote – 167 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs, together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olga Batic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four, against – no one who has been abstention – no vote – 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment with correction was brought together by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted – 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Meso Omerović and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 175 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Balša Bozovic submitted the 30th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for—seven against—no one who has been abstained—no vote— 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senić and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of all 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – nine abstentions – there is no, no vote – eight of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. We're moving to a decision on the fourth item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote – eight of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP, Blagoja Bradic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – 10 abstentions – there are no, five out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in general. We move to the Fifth agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments to the law on salaries in state bodies and public services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on salaries in public authorities and public services, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – 10 abstentions – there are no, three of the 175 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstentions - none; 172 of the total of the 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 10 against – no one who has been abstained; 165 of the total of the 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on salaries in state bodies and public services, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – 11 abstentions – there are no, two of the 175 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Law on salaries in state bodies and public services. We move to the Sixth Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, one of the 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Members of the 2nd and People's MP Zoran Babic to Article 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MP Dragan Jovanovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, with the correction of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 171 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 163 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Konstadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – four of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – none, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle, by most votes. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 163 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill amending the Health Insurance Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – 12 abstentions – there is no, no vote – none, of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Health Insurance Act. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s People’s Reports, may be required, without an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a Search, be made known in the day of voting. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 4 September 2014, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted three - 138, out of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 4 September 2014, at 15 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has voted – 135, of the total of the 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Janko Veselinov, at a session on 8 September 2014, at 13 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 130 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 8 September 2014, at 19 hours and five minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 130 of the 130 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vuceta Toskovic, at a session on 9 September 2014, at 11 o'clock and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 130, of the total of 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vesna Marjanovic, at a session on 9 September 2014, at 11 o'clock and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 129 of the people's messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 9 September 2014, at 12 hours and six minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 131 of the total of the 131 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 10 September 2014, at 11 o'clock and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 132, out of the 132 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2014. Thank you.
