ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I'm sorry, I've been informed by MPs that they don't have any new cards that have been shared, some have not. We'll wait one minute for the service to finish that part of the job. We can keep working, the MP cards are split. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5679	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first of all have a few questions for the Ministry of Finance. My first question is when, how and how can doctors who are private residents actually own private offices as well as veterinarians, who have lost absolutely everything in May floods, can pay taxes and contribute when absolutely no one pays anything at this time. I mean service providers, and also the state. Drugs, consumables, gasoline, etc., could invariably be listed, all of which they have to buy. So, the services have to be provided, and no one pays them. The aid was not received, and as far as veterinarians were concerned, they were not paid in May, June, or July for a state-run livestock protection programme. That's what they did before the flood, and that's why there's no infection. My second question about this is, for what reason has it almost become a practice, not to say manners in the last few years that veterinarians in the name of services performed are constantly late on payment and usually up to three or four months? Those of their employees who have not fired, I speak primarily of Obrenovac, but also of other flooded areas, the veterinarians began working on the eighth day after the flood, while doctors began working 15 days after the flood. They have to work, they're forced to do it, but their charges are gone, for some reason, the commoners, they're lagging behind. If the state does not pay the veterinarians 90 days, mentioned in May, June and July, which has become a practice and become a manners, then it would be good, and it is also a proposal for the demochrists to contribute to the state of pay only when the state pays what it owes them. Otherwise they'll close their offices. The villagers will be left without services because there is no public veterinary service. So far, as we know, vets who have private offices all their obligations to the state have been orderly reconciled. Especially in Obrenovac because of the general known condition they are no longer able to do so. Furthermore, as far as doctors are concerned by the same owners of private offices in the Obrenovac area, they have already referred their appeal to the General Secretariat of the Government and the Ministry of Health, but all through the Serbian Medical Chamber. It is not difficult to read the Health Protection Act, which requires its provisions that private practice can temporarily stop working, by performing certain health activities if it informs the RES, which is the Ministry of Health about the reasons for temporary termination. I don't think there should be any reason here, because there's only one reason, and that's now common knowledge. On the other hand, the same Health Protection Act prescribes that when private practice does not meet the conditions regarding equipment, as regards space and medicines, the Ministry of Health can adopt a solution to the temporary ban. All of this, with a letter from the Ministry of Health, stated in response to the Serbian Medical Chamber, for one simple reason, and this is because doctors are generally subject to those regulations governing the private enterprise area. So the question I'm asking the Ministry of Finance is very simple, so the doctors of private practice after the flood don't have the equipment, they don't have the rooms, they lost that elemental accident. They've got a bar that can't work right now, because they don't have the conditions to get that drive to work, and it's the easiest thing for all the employees to fire and shut down the private office, but it seems to me like everybody's losing something like that. My question is what will the Ministry of Finance do in this case and is there any possibility that the state can somehow link the internships in these very listed categories, so entrepreneurs for a while, until conditions are obtained, of course, for their re-work? In addition to the Ministry of Finance, of course the answer to this question could also be given to me by the Ministry of Labour, since it is resolute, in addition to work, also in charge of employment, as well as for combat and social issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5680	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5681	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the government, and it concerns the questionable and totally incorrect data on the number of Albanians in Serbia, and above all the number of Albanians in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja to be presented in an official report by the Republic Bureau of Statistics on the 2011 census. The report for these municipalities under the footnote states that the data refers only to the censused population. When it is known that under the conditions of the Albanian population's boycott, municipal census committees did not function, the first question is asked – how did the Republic Statistics Institute come up with absolutely incorrect information that there are only 416 Albanians in Presevo Municipality and only 244 Albanians in Bujanovac? Since this is totally incorrect data on the number of Albanians in Serbia, they have started to apply since the beginning of 2013, by drastically reducing the funding of the Albanian National Council, and the information that the Presevo Municipality is now showing itself quite incorrectly only with 3,000 inhabitants directly affected the Municipality of Presevo by the General Court and before that the Public Prosecutor's Office. The question arises whether the government agrees with the policy of drastically punishing the Albanian national minority over the above-mentioned boycott? In this context, the question arises why is the recommendation of the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe on a more flexible approach to the use of the mentioned incorrect census data, so as not to negatively affect the reduction of minority rights of Albanians in Serbia? Finally, I ask the question why is it being manipulated by an alleged decision by Albanian political leaders to freeze talks with the government and in the context of further recommendations from the Advisory Committee that alternative sources of data on the number of Albanians in Serbia are being reached in dialogue with Albanian minority representatives? First, it is known that the Republic Bureau of Statistics constantly monitors vital events and population movements throughout the country, in all municipalities, and by ethnic criteria. Secondly, why is it still necessary for the government to continue to use a flimsy phrase on allegedly frozen dialogue by Albanian political leaders when there are now two representatives of Albanians in the National Assembly instead of earlier, when local authorities in Presevo and Bujanovac, who currently have more Albanian national minority committees than in previous councils, as well as the National Council of Albanians, are constantly addressing the central authorities to help solve very difficult life problems? Of course, the Albanian population in Serbia, as well as all citizens of this country, do not need political farces, and it is really necessary to finally stop playing games without borders and to move on to concrete measures and concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5682	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5683	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of Transport and refer to the creation of a wild dump along the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. The Law on Public Roads, Article 7, also provides for road protection, Article 15 provides for a public road manager to provide road protection, and Article 29 defines protection belts for all categories of roads, so that it is 40 metres for the highway. Article 30 of this Belt prohibits the opening, among other things, of waste dumps, i.e. waste dumps. Just like this one dump, not small scales, spreads to our eyes and increases along the highway on the stock before turning for the New Banovci. A fence in the length of over 100 meters has been destroyed. I ask the question of the Ministry of Traffic, or the Minister of Transport, how does the manager of "Serb Roads" perform his work, the highway manager when this detour creates this dump where trucks and other waste trucks come freely, and other private persons who put waste there, when it is under the responsibility of the one who runs the roads, which are in this case "Serb Roads", it is his obligation to daily, says Article 45, to perform road protection activities? My question also relates to what the Road Inspection is doing, which is in the jurisdiction of this same ministry, and should there be an accident or any other incident or when the dump reaches such a situation that after cleaning it, a real balance on how much funds for such a purpose have been spent, and we don't actually care to prevent it? One more thing, I would like to remind you that in this same law, a fine of 200,000 to 1,000 dinars is intended to punish a legal person if the belt of controlled construction opens up a waste dump, or garbage, in this case would be "Serbian Roads" which should be punished. I wonder what the Ministry is doing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5684	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5685	My question will be addressed to the acting Minister of Industry, Mr Vujovic. In this high house, we are discussing laws that are important for the functioning of the country. Because of Serbia's public and for the debate on these laws, it is very important that we have complete information when it comes to some system laws. For example, it is very important that we have received accurate information on how many employees are employed in the public sector. We have data on how much the company owes for unpaid taxes, utility and other taxes. We have data on how unemployed young people are. But my opinion is that we lack some other very important data and information, and because of the public and citizens of Serbia, but also to discuss the system laws that are on the agenda these days. That's why I'm going to ask Minister Vujovic a few questions. First of all, I'm interested in what is the amount of preferential and subsidized loans that are not recovered? When will the exact amount for these loans be determined and measures taken against those who have not returned them so far? That is, their responsibility and when these loans will begin to be returned. The second issue concerns some 60 people working on the lease, which is in all Serbia, and most of all in high-profit NIS. That is why my question is addressed to Minister Vujovic – what will become of them? What's their status? The third question – Serbia is in 144th place in the world following violations of the rights of small shareholders. How many new law on privatisation and bankruptcy, which we are going to discuss these days, will be able to fix this infamous place on this issue of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5686	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5687	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia how he will apply Article 25. A government law that has the edge of taking over the power of the minister to whom the term of office has ceased, the election of a new minister? In point 2, the member said, "The Prime Minister is obliged to propose to the National Assembly the election of a new minister within 15 days of the end of the term of office of the previous minister," he said, "the debtor" and the fact that tomorrow expires 15 days after the term of office of former Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, whose resignation was established on July 15th, so I ask most well-meaningly, the day before the deadline laid down in Article 25, how will the Prime Minister respect his own law and will he do so? If he won't, I think we need an explanation as to why this deadline won't be fulfilled tomorrow. If he will, we look forward to electing a new minister and holding a session within the business period. The question about this is the fact that former Finance Minister Lazar Krstic was in the media and here in the Assembly talking about a billion dollars or euros in credit, that yesterday and today we heard about the signing of 517m euros or dollars, depends on the media, so I am looking for an explanation that is suspected, how is the credit signed and is it true what Minister Krstic announced, or is it true what we see today about the loan needed to fill the budget deficit? The second part of my address is dedicated to the request, to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and it is a requirement to provide me with a 2013 report on the compensation for the use of mineral raw materials, clay and raw materials for the brick and ceramic industries, ceramic clay, brick clay, wood, fire-stalled clay, kaolinised granite and felspad. In 2011 and 2012, there is also a Government Regulation on the amount of compensation for the use of non-metallic raw materials for the acquisition of construction materials, with the amounts of prices: for ceramic clay 27 dinars, for brick clay 16 dinars, for wood 16 dinars, for fire-resistant clay 22 dinars, for kaolinised granite 27 dinars and for felspad 27 dinars. From former Minister of Mining and Energy, Mr Bačević, I asked for a report on how the revenues from these fees are distributed: 40% of the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, 40% of the local self-government budget on whose territory is exploited, 20% of the ministry's own income, and I ask the minister to order me to submit a 2013 report on the application of this regulation and to charge non-metallic raw materials compensation. The question has been asked for a lot of good reasons. Since it took until 2012 to convince and fight for the use of clay and non-metallic raw materials in general for fees and for it to be known that such raw materials are exploited in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is an exhaustive, limited resource and it is therefore important that we know whether the appropriate compensation is paid according to the relevant regulations in the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5688	The word has a folk MP, Dr Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5689	Thank you very much. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government, all in light of the facts and new situations in the City of Valjev Assembly and the decision of the Administrative Court that annuls the resolution of the President of the City Assembly, Prof. Dr. Mihajl Jokic. Namely, what happened? On February 28th, at the meeting of the City Assembly, Professor Mihajlo Jokic of the city's president and the same session, the majority of the headed SPS, after a brief procedure, resolved all other SNS officials, as well as directors of institutions and public enterprises appointed after the four-year competition, without the opinion of the Supervisory Board. The Administrative Court decides and makes a decision on 19.06, which annuls the City Assembly's resolution on the resolution of Professor Jokic and the decision made on 19.06 does not affect the position of the ruling majority of the leading SPS, which holds sessions on July 2nd and 4th, where a number of important decisions are made, I would say dozens of important decisions, and among other things, the decision on budget rebalancing, changes in the work of the Directorate and all other damage-related enterprises that took place in the floods. We learn from the media and unofficially about this decision of the Administrative Court 24.07, and since I am also a board member in the City Assembly, as well as all the committees are not officially informed. The administrative court's decision has not yet been respected and Professor Mihajlo Jokic has not been returned to the post of president of the City Assembly, nor has he received any document from the City Assembly. Worse still, the congregation also makes a number of other solutions that are not in line with the law, such as the decision to appoint the Director of the Public Enterprise ‘Colubara Stubo-Rovni’ for the fourth time as acting director, although the law strictly states that this is only allowed twice, or once, and the second time in special cases. This all says that there have been a number of irregularities in the work of the City of Valjev Assembly, and that majority led by Mayor Terzic has actually lost every legitimacy. What is interesting and what interests the citizens is, what will happen after the Court of Justice's decision, since after 28.02 five sessions of the city's assembly were held and made for dozens of important decisions. Therefore, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Administration and Local Self-Government and to what is it going to do about this new factual situation, and by referring to this decision of the Administrative Court and whether it will introduce an inspection and finally respond to the citizens of Valjev what happens to this majority that rules the city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5690	Since none of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Jovanovic, Snezana Malovic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic, Meko Omerović, Branko Djurović and Bojan Kostreš. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda laws set out in the Government’s request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, besides the representative of the proposing Dr Dusan Vujovic and the Minister of Industry, I have called for the session to be attended by Nenad Mijailovic, Assistant Minister of Industry Marijana Radovanović v.d. Director of the Privatisation Agency, Master Ivana Matic v.d. Director of the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, Zvonko Obradović Director of the Agency for Business Registers, Dr Branko Radulović Prof. Faculty of Law in Belgrade and Branko Radovic, adviser to the director of the Privatisation Agency. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the meeting of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the 7th Extraordinary Session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a Privatisation Act, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, 4. Proposal for a Law on Public Information and Media, 5. Proposal for a law on electronic media, 6. Proposal for a Law on Public Media Services National MP Katarina Rakic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vulnerabilities and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Procedure of Registration at the Agency for Economic Registers (paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Agenda). Then, a joint principled search on: a proposal for a law on public information and media, a proposal for a law on electronic media and a proposal for a law on public media services. Does MP Katarina Rakic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that 142, against 12, abstentions, did not vote 20 of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Privatisation Act; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers; 4. Proposal for a law on public information and media; 5. Proposal for a law on electronic media; 6. Proposal for a law on public media services. We're going to work on the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the proposals for the laws of the 1, 2 and 3 items of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you, to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Procedure of Registration at the Agency for Economic Registers. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Dusan Vujovic, the minister of industry want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5691	Thank you very much. I am taking this opportunity to say briefly what is the essence of the laws that are now on the agenda, which is the basic objective of these laws and what we expect to achieve by implementing these laws. As you know, under the old Privatization Act, 2,288 companies are privatized, it's a positive side. On the other hand, in the privatisation process, 161 companies ended up in restructuring status, so they failed to pass through the privatisation process and were in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. In addition, more companies have been found in the Agency that have never even tried privatisation but have found themselves in a property status that has so far not had a good solution in legislation. Of the 584 companies currently in status, i.e. in the portfolio of the State Privatisation Agency, there are huge costs. It is estimated that the annual costs are about $800 million. These are direct budget costs and indirect costs on missed income, missed employment, missed exports, without talking about effects, tax effects on regional development and Serbia's economic potential at all. The purpose of these two laws, the Law on Privatisation and Change and Complementary of the Banking Act, is to cancel this process, to finally complete the process of restructuring, the status of restructuring, and to, in fact, move in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court into a normal situation in which property rights will be protected, in which trustees' rights will be protected. As you know, we have extended that deadline by making the amendments and supplementing the 20g law, and in those deadlines, we are now passing this law that will allow us to end the new Privatisation Act in an orderly legal manner, I would call it the purgatory that we called restructuring. The character of this law is such that it has once again the status of a special law, a special law, "lex specialis", to remove obstacles that may arise from contradiction with other laws. The key feature of this law is that it offers a more flexible choice of models, methods and measures of privatisation that will allow companies to find potential partners, investors, customers and return to business life, if possible, to seek a solution in bankruptcy, if not possible. The main principles of the law we offer today are respect for fair market conditions in all processes, in the process of assessment, in the privatisation process, in the process of realisation and privatisation, or bankruptcy. The aim is also to protect all key market institutes, especially the Institute of Protected Trustees, the Institute of Property in general. We expect this law to achieve the synergy of all the state bodies involved in this process and to co-operate with other laws. Also, the law stipulates that the Privatisation Agency can be a promoter of bankruptcy and liquidation and also defines the deadline of 31 December 2015 as the deadline for transforming social property into private property. The aim of these laws will be implemented, as I said, by applying appropriate models, methods and measures. What's this about? In addition to the sale of capital provided for by the previous law, which often faced obstacles in situations where capital has zero value or even negative value, this law provides for the possibility of selling assets. The assets can be sold in any situation and may be sold if the relevant conditions are secured to comply with the value of the claim that exists. In addition, the Law provides for a strategic partnership as a model of sales and transfer of capital without compensation. The transfer of capital without compensation is also known from the old privatisation laws where it has been used to transfer 30% of social capital without compensation to workers, in this law it also extends to potential partners in privatisation, in order to control the privatisation process through transfer of property, i.e. to give incentives to future owners to achieve those objectives they have committed to in privatisation contracts. Methods, we only left two methods in the law. One is a classic collection of offers, so-called. the tender with auctions, or competition afterwards, and the second is simple to collect offers. And, finally, in the measures followed, or preceding the privatisation process, we foresee the possibility of write-offs in order to bring the assets into line, and the possibility of converting debt into property, into capital, into an equivalent, which, as I said, will be able to control this process and free the companies of the restrictions that exist in this process. The new Privatisation Act enables all interested partners and investors to submit valid privatisation programmes, i.e. economic restructuring of firms in difficulty, to be adopted within a short period of time. The goal is, therefore, that businesses have the market to have the possibility of economic survival, and that they have found solutions to the financial debts and other problems faced by the companies, which were not possible under the previous laws. In parallel with the Privatisation Act, we propose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Banking Act. As you probably know from statistics, the average duration of the bankruptcy process in Serbia was between three and four years. After the suspension of automatic bankruptcy, the company rarely sought solutions to pre-prepared restructuring programmes. The aim of this law is to increase transparency and prevent abuses in the bankruptcy process, to increase trust rights. So far, trustees have played a secondary role in the process. Trustees bear the burden of bankruptcy, loss of property, loss of claim. They must therefore have greater responsibility in the process. Also, the aim of the law is to remove a whole series of practical problems that have been seen in practice. A faster, simpler, more transparent process should lead to an increase in confidence rates that connected persons who have often served as a way to avoid obligations and extend business and conditions of bankruptcy will receive adequate treatment, i.e. will be in the fourth payment order, so that they will, as well as the basic capital holders, only be entitled to residual value in the bankruptcy process. A three-month reporting obligation shall be introduced during the bankruptcy proceedings. It limits the level of advances of micro-economic companies, they have so far had quite high costs in this process. The direct selection of the bank manager by the judges is disabled. So the judges have their role, but not necessarily to choose bankruptcy managers, sometimes against the wishes of the trustees, who, as I said, bear the highest cost in the process. It introduces a trustee's obligation to propose a bankruptcy manager, but either to agree to the appointment of a bankruptcy director who proposes a court, or someone else in the process. There's an extension of time when you can do it. The rights and obligations of hostage creditors shall be established. Publishers have special treatment in all market economies, so so do we. I think it's one of the important features with us, but they're shutting down from the vote. They guarantee rights, but they don't vote in the process. The reorganisation is accelerated as a way of resolving the problems of the bankruptcy company, reducing costs and removing the problems identified in practice, such as the obligation to provide the necessary data, the obligation to inform the court and the bankruptcy administrations as the existence of the guarantee and other institutes. The third law that we are going to discuss today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration procedure in the APR. The changes are quite short, if there are any concrete questions I am prepared to respond to them in the process of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5692	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5693	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have had reform laws ahead of us, and it was high time for these laws to be passed, because the agony of these companies that are in restructuring and that privatisation has been going on for a long time. As we've heard from Mr. Minister, 584 companies are portfolios, at the Privatisation Agency, waiting for this privatisation to go as quickly and efficiently as possible. Of these companies, we have 161 enterprises in restructuring and they are in a lot of this process and we should deal with it with this law. As we have heard from Mr. Minister, we lose about 800 million dollars each year from the budget we invest in these companies, and it is high time to cut this cost. The SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws. When this law enters, after eight days of publication in the Official Messenger, new investors have 30 days to submit their programmes, and then the Agency for Privatisation or Minister of Economy will have the opportunity to approve those methods or models that are best for the companies that submitted their demands. As we have heard, this law is a "lex specialis", meaning a special law if it overlaps with other laws, then it has an advantage under other laws. This law does not apply, does not apply to sports organisations, media founders, companies that produce arms and military equipment and companies for professional rehabilitation, employment of persons with disabilities. It's one positive thing, since we have other laws, I mean this other package, so we'll sort out the media problem somehow. As far as the Privatisation Agency is concerned, it has a significant role to play, because it will carry out and control the entire flow of privatisation. If we look at customers, now the customer can be a foreign physical person, from our country the investor, anyone who meets certain conditions, means that it has been executed or has no outstanding obligations to the state. If we're looking, we need to ask for consent from an organization that controls money laundering. This law provides for four privatisation models, sale of capital, sale of assets, a strategic partnership and transfer of capital without compensation. In addition to the model, we have two methods, as Mr. Minister said, public data collection with public competition, there is a model for selling capital and property and public collection, I mean offers, which is for a strategic partnership model. As we've heard, we've got two measures, there's a write-off of debt and turning debt into a permanent stake or so on. conversion. It is the same newspaper, because the government will decide on these measures only if the subject meets one of the conditions, such as the strategic importance of the entity in that region or the size of the entity's assets, or the size and number of employees. So one of these conditions must meet the privatisation subject in order to introduce these measures. These are actually incentives for new investors, so-called "subsidies", and so far we have had subsidies from the state to investors in the creation of new jobs, but with these we also give the possibility that we have more interested in privatising these companies that are before privatisation. Therefore, in the case of a debt write-off, the Government may decide that state creditors of the privatisation entity write off the debt with effect on 31 December 2013, provided that the privatisation entity operates in whole or majority, social or public capital. So the write-off of the debt can only be done if the entity is privatised by the sale of capital or by a strategic partnership through the recapitalisation. As we have read, this law provides for a period of time for privatisation. The deadline is 31 December 2015 and investors have the same deadline to submit their programmes and proposals after the entry into force of the eighth day, after the entry into force of this law and then the Privatisation Agency will, with the advice of the Ministry, determine which model and which method will be achieved in relation to privatisation, certainly the combination is possible. So, for privatisation entities operating with the majority capital of the Republic of Serbia, the model and method is brought by the Government, and if the autonomous province or local self-government has a majority capital in the company then the competent authority of the Autonomous province and local self-government brings methods to do the model, of course on the basis of the proposal from the Ministry of Economy. If we're looking at Vojvodina alone, since I'm an MP from Sainta, from a Vojvodina town, I've taken out some information about companies that are preprivileged in Vojvodina. There's about 95 companies. If we just watch how many employees these companies have, about 10,000 workers, because about four and a half thousand workers are in those companies that are privatized and about six thousand workers have those companies that are ahead of reconstruction. The largest number of companies in Vojvodina that expect privatisation from construction work, totalled 18. We have a lot of veterinary stations from Subotica, from India, from Sainta where I come from, and here are agricultural land and society, there are about 10 of them. Here in Vojvodina the most significant company and the largest company is who has more than 1000 employees is Pančevačka azotar, but we also have such companies that have more than a hundred employees and are also waiting for privatisation, it is the agricultural good “Doža Đerđ” from Backa Topola, “Postije Precise Liv” from Ade which has 100 workers or 103 workers, then “Potijski vodovi” from Horgoš, “Gornji Banat” from Kikinda and I will not continue to list these companies. We hope these companies with this law find their investors and finally get on their feet and start working for the market. As far as the bankruptcy law is concerned, this law provides for the liquidation and reorganisation of the company itself. We hope there will be more reorganisations than liquidations. As Mr. Minister said, the practice so far was that the company that did not pay the debts was automatically going into an automatic blockade, and then bankruptcy, so another company, Ki firm, opened up, by the way, to transfer capital to "family" and so they worked in practice. We will do so with this law, hopefully, to prevent and increase transparency of the entire bankruptcy process and, as Mr. Minister said, trustees' rights will have or will increase their rights. One of the key proposals in this law is related to related persons, which from now on will not be members of the Committee or the Assembly of Trustees and are placed in the last fourth row, the payment order. It's, I mean, one of the most positive newspapers in this law. We also had problems in practice with the selection of bankruptcy managers, and this law under Article 3 makes one amendment to Article 20. The bankruptcy law, which erases this attitude. So far, there has been a practice that the competent court could choose with the method of random selection from the list of active bankruptcy managers, the bankruptcy manager, from the jurisdictional court, but there was also a law on such an opportunity that the selected bankruptcy manager from the list of active bankruptcy managers from all over our country was used by judges and then the so-called bankruptcy managers. We will address this problem with a special act and method of random selection with one algorithm will work and I hope that in practice it will bring about the positive, as provided for in the law. As Mr. Minister has said, from now on, bankruptcy managers must give their reports three months ago, but not only to a bankruptcy judge, but also to a trustee's committee and in writing, in electronic form, to put it on the website and then this if the transparency of the entire bankruptcy process increases. As regards trustees' rights, as Mr. Minister said they would improve, so they will have more rights and bear and burden of bankruptcy themselves, the Trustees' Assembly is elected at the first confidential hearing and at that hearing is obliged by the bankruptcy manager to share the list with the present trustees on the review of the claim of the person associated with the bankruptcy debtor. This is how we will avoid, so as not to choose these persons in the Assembly and the Committee of Trustees themselves, because, as we know, it was one bad practice and they were holding back the bankruptcy process themselves and as well as the adoption of a reorganisation plan, so the procedure itself has been braked like this. As we've heard, the Committee of Trustees has a longer period of 30 days, that they're looking for the replacement of a bankruptcy manager, because these 30 days haven't been quite enough to get to know the work of a bankruptcy manager, and I think that's a positive thing to do. This law further states that a trustee's board can hire an expert to monitor or carry out an analysis of the business of the creditor himself. The important question is still that clear and public trusts cannot be chosen either by the board of trustees or by the Assembly. It is important that I cannot even vote in favour of the reorganisation plan, but the law states that their rights cannot be reduced or changed with this reorganisation plan. As far as the reorganisation plan is concerned, it is positive that the precise date is when it is to be adopted and the implementation of the reorganisation plan begins and as far as it is possible to make objections to this plan, because the objections only delayed the adoption of the plan and this led to bankruptcy in infinity. The reorganisation plan itself is now being published in a high-pitched list. So far there have been three lists. Another positive thing, the obligation to obtain the Commission's consent to protect competition in the adoption of the reorganisation plan is lifted, but it certainly does not apply to medium and large legal persons. As we heard the statistics, it's a very bad statistic about bankruptcy. Our bankruptcy lasts about two years on average, but some five years. I think we have too few supervisors overseeing a bankruptcy manager. If I read correctly, we have about 330 active bankruptcy managers and only five supervisors. We should increase the number of supervisors. What's important and what we need to say is that this law doesn't apply retroactively. So those bankruptcys that start with another law, with that law and end bankruptcy. Another statistic. According to the Agency, we have about 1,400 active bankruptcys that are privately owned by those companies and 557 active cases in state-owned entities. Like I said, bankruptcy has been going on for a long time -- two to five years. I hope with this law we can settle this long term. That should be done within two years. So far we've had a lot of opportunities or those who've been bankrupt, in bankruptcy we've had problems with those facilities or property that are in reconstruction and it's not a big deal to launch bankruptcy was a lot of money or a lot of dinars. It's now reduced. So, I can go into bankruptcy easier, with less money, and we think that if we look at bankruptcy as a process ourselves, we shouldn't just think about bankruptcy, but it would be better if these companies went into reorganisation or went back to the market, to come back to life and, of course, live on. That would be best in this law, and that's why we're voting for this law. The Alliance of Duke Hungarians will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5694	Thank you, Mr. Peck. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5695	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is simply no rescue from bankruptcy in our country unless we renew the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund by the end of the year and make huge savings in the public sector. It is clear to all of us, I hope there is no longer any dilemma here, regardless of whether it is a position or an opposition, to make foreign reserves worth about 7 billion euros and after which spending is followed by a scenario that will be worse than Greece. In order to make a favourable arrangement with the IMF, it is necessary to adopt, among other things, the laws that are in front of us today, which represent a very important step towards Serbia's economic recovery. The new solutions we are discussing today should allow privatisation to be completed under market conditions in 584 social enterprises and finally resolve the status of 161 firms in restructuring. The work that needs to be done must be transparent, completed by the beginning of 2017, and the government's cash register should be more full by about 760m euros, as annual allocations are for all losers in Serbia. The law on bankruptcy even before entering the congregation procedure brought public attention. We've all witnessed a number of signs in the media lately, which, of course, is good, because our public needs to know some things in bankruptcy proceedings. It is good that changes to the law will limit the duration of bankruptcy to two years, because now there are bankruptcys that last for years, and bankruptcy serves only to meet the material needs of bankruptcy managers and quietly devasting the bankruptcy mass. Out of all this, creditors remain short sleeves, among them, of course, workers without earned wages. And then I'm going to go back to this example, because I think this is one of the most important points or one of the most important topics in these amendments to the law when we talk about bankruptcy. Otherwise, I will dedicate most of my speech to the amendments to the law on bankruptcy, because on the one hand, I think they are offered to MPs today more than good solutions when it comes to amending the law. On the other hand, for practical reasons we have three very important topics, at least I think of these three united at one point, and I think there may have been little time for us to be able to talk more specifically and more seriously about at least one discussion of such important topics. I think it may be more useful for the ruling coalition whether, the ruling party, the largest party, the SNS, we are talking about this issue today, because the solutions offered are very good and we can say that it is only unfortunate that these solutions were not previously in the assembly benches. Unfortunately, in the previous period, there have been numerous examples where individual companies were deliberately brought into bankruptcy with the aim of buying them from a very specific person, tycoons, and thus obtaining valuable assets from a creditor. In particular, the possibility of selling the assets of a creditor to a direct contract managed by bankruptcy managers was used for this purpose. Since then, I think big stories have started, i.e. The topics concerning the bankruptcy mafia. I've kind of been through this way of handling myself started to appear in public. In such non-refundable cases, some of our famous brands, agricultural businesses with thousands of acres of oracies at a boughing price, and we all know that the value of farmland is growing and only in the coming period will it grow as close as we can to full EU membership. In this way hundreds of millions of euros have been poured into individual pockets. A special case is the bankruptcy of banks and other financial organisations, as some last more than a decade. I think it is necessary to pay attention to cases where the bankruptcy of a single company is caused by the owners themselves through connected persons, their other companies, and thus protect themselves from creditors, who, to say peopleally, have been fed up by hundreds or even billions of dinars. Despite an advanced reorganisation plan, they practically continue to mismanagement of businesses and continue to draw capital in favour of their own bank accounts, often abroad, as we have had the opportunity to see. Everywhere in the world, there is a bankruptcy path for the rapid elimination of the economic life of a poor economic operator and the start of a new work on sound grounds, and only with us is the current bankruptcy to avoid obligations and continue to destroy the economic operator. I hope that was the case so far, i.e. until the moment of adoption of this law. In the whole bankruptcy story, we can't avoid the subject of bankruptcy managers, perhaps even the most important subject, and among them are Superman, Batman, Spider-Man, who run these proceedings in over 30 companies, and there are those who, at the moment of obtaining an adequate licence, remain only bankruptcy managers on paper, because they never got a chance to run any bankruptcy, even though they had more than good references, but apparently weak references when it comes to party books. In many companies the bankruptcy business is run by the Privatisation Agency, and this is a special topic that we could talk about and I think my colleagues, who have dealt with these topics... In the first place, Aleksandar Martinovic, who had the opportunity to face all the problems, when it comes to the Privatisation Agency, and in some ways try to solve huge, accumulated problems that no one has solved in years. It should be said that it is not clear from these amendments to the law that we have made some kind of clear change here in relation to the current situation, because the conflict of interest of owners and creditors in the past was more than clear. In the current practice, it is particularly concerned that in the largest number of bankruptcys, after the sale of assets, not all trusts are settled, and it should not be that way, and this clearly speaks of the poor conduct of these proceedings and they are in fact turning into a process of liquidation of companies. There are different examples, and I think we should also talk about them in public, because somehow we're just obsessed and bombarded with all those negative things, not only when it comes to this subject, but when it comes to the whole economy of our society. I think the emphasis of those who work positively, who have come out of this whole process as clean, and have completed the processes so that everyone can be calm, so that everyone can be happy... Such examples are very few. Such examples are said very little in the media. One of these examples is, from the town where I come from, from Somboro, the bankruptcy of the company "Rade Končar", where the bankruptcy manager managed to sell the property of the creditor, calm down all creditors, despite the fact that there is still a substantial amount of money left in the bank account of the creditor. Unfortunately, these examples are very small. There are many more examples where the individual paid for himself, because he could have done so by law, in one company, in compensation for good and quality work, 42 million dinars. Forty-two million dinars at a time when the minimum is 16, 17 thousand dinars and people survive with 100 euros a month. It is not clear to anyone, and in particular it is not clear how these people could survive to this day without being called to account. These are mostly people who have the support of individual political parties, I would not say what political parties they are. All the parties in power were being staged, and it became one system of values that no one wanted to disturb, from which the hand was deeply in the pocket of all the citizens of this country, and the care of the general good was not interested in anyone. I think that responsibility for what has been done so far is one of the most important things that we have to deal with, both us MPs and, Mr. Minister, the people in your ministry. I said that one of the biggest problems, in practice, proved that the procedures for the adoption of plans and reorganisations in some cases lasted indefinitely. The amendments to the law are limited deadlines for the adoption of the reorganisation plans, my colleague spoke of allowing the company to survive, continue to carry out its work, reprogramme or conversion of debt into capital. The lack was, as has already been said, what any trustee could have made remarks on the proposed plan and there was no deadline until it was due to be completed. These were widely used by the trustees, and it was an infinite process. Now it's all decadently determined, and it's a constituency group from which I welcome. The reorganisation plan shall be submitted within 90 days. Now the failure of the previous law has been removed, and objections can be delivered 15 days from the day of delivery of the plan. After that, there is no longer any delay, as is now happening, that the judge in April schedules a hearing for November, December months, and then the holidays come, and then it is delayed again and so indefinitely. The deadlines for each step of the bankruptcy proceedings have been set. They're not long, and we welcome that. The problem is if the property is not sold, if the bankruptcy manager doesn't organize the sale, if there are no interested customers, but there are no amendments to this law that can help. Delaying the bankruptcy of companies that rent out their business space and other assets at exclusive locations from which they collect revenue, where no one is in a hurry to end the process. That was the case so far. As I said myself, I can't remember any example that someone who's worked at the harm of the state and to the harm of citizens, workers have been brought in or answered by the law so far. It was mostly covered up. The huge capital was drawn, either for individuals, or for tycoons, or for the bankruptcy mafia, political parties. Unfortunately, very little we could hear that someone was complaining about it, and unfortunately very little has been said about it in this House. What is a particular burden is insurance companies, where bankruptcy lasted over 10 years. The comparisons, as the privatisation process took place in the accelerated process, we had an example of banks... Now we have a situation that when this process lasts for so long, the disabled, the people who were injured 10, 15 years ago, who are in a wheelchair, incapacitated, can't pay for the damage until the bankruptcy of these insurance companies, which is absurd, because these are the people who need help and who need the most to be cared for by the state. Speaking of banks, I'd add that we have six state banks, and that's optimal, as said in the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy, I can't remember exactly, two or three. We need to find a solution to non-refundable loans, legal and operational solutions so banks can get rid of them. It will facilitate the development of new companies and their lending. It is clear that resolving the issue of state banks is not at all a naive and easy job, but putting off this job creates uncertainty in the financial system, and you know that, Mr. Minister. For years, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party have been alerting back to problems that we can have due to years of irrational and even arrogant spending of state finances, especially in the period from 2007 to 2012. We are constantly talking about the reckless robbery privatisation that everyone knew about, especially when we talk about agricultural enterprises in Vojvodina, where with sacks of money came to various auctions and took away citizens' property. She was very quiet to the Privatisation Agency. It was a very quiet police force, and it still kept the courts that made this case go on forever and allowed this kind of privatisation to end so that in every city of five-six state-owned enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and so forth, which the tycoons had completely destroyed, and ended up with their unquality personnel living in these companies, I have to say, under the umbrella of the Privatisation Agency, where you can't clearly blame anyone, but the leaders of the Privatisation Agency, who came from political parties, obviously did not rely on the knowledge and quality of people working at the Privatisation Agency, have already spent more time making their political parties. Unfortunately, this was most apparent from 2000 to 2012. That's why today we're in a situation where bills have to be paid. Unfortunately, as it usually is, these accounts usually go over the back of citizens who have lived in a difficult, unexplainable situation for years. The good news is that today's decision makers are aware of it, and I believe that the new government, Mr. Minister where you are, will do whatever it takes to avoid bankruptcy, because we've never been closer to it. Of course, I believe that these warnings that the government is imposing on itself, for the first time telling citizens clearly about the situation we are in, is just a step that will lead to the healing of our nation because, let's be honest, no one will help us if we don't help ourselves. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will support these draft laws and amendments to the laws that are in front of us today, with the desire to make these laws as soon as possible, not only adopted in the Assembly, but also implemented on the ground. We have had opportunities in the past to see that we have passed many good laws that are in line with European regulations, which were reform laws, but unfortunately they have not been implemented. I wish you, Mr. Minister, all the happiness in what awaits you, because in front of you is one very serious task and guilt for what has happened, of course, is not on you, but you will probably measure every move you make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5696	Thank you, Mr. Gojkovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected representatives of the government, the Agency, privatisation probably as no other topic has had a bad response in the public over the past 20 and several years, and whenever there are problems in the economy, the privatisation process is always blamed. I don't think that's quite the case, since since the beginning of that process, the institutions and the people who've been carrying it out have had no support from the rest of the system, and not only that, but they've had an active obstruction. To talk about this process the right way, I think we need to give a certain retrospective from when he started. It started when we all watched those famous “Danasti” and “Dalas”, so we thought we'd all live as they live in those shows in the late '80s. Then Ante Markovic and the famous reforms came and practically just implemented what was already in practice as self-government, i.e. The shares were distributed to the capital bearers at the time, and these were employees of enterprises. Unfortunately, the process was quickly completed because the reforms were halted by nationalist elites in the former republics and that is a different, long and sad story that has long passed today. After that, the 1990s came, and in my opinion, there was a real privatisation, i.e. the mass robbery of social enterprises, and it took place by pulling the price and galloping inflation through scissors from social firms, because only the privileged could do business with them. Inflation has galloped, obligations have not been paid, and privileged individuals have acquired enormous wealth during that period. Revaluations of previously implemented privatisations also came, as the state realised it lacked funds to wage wars, so state capital was re-established in companies that were then privatised. Some survived, and fortunately to this day they do well, but there were very few. I mean "Hemofarm", "Synthelon" and only a few such cases. After 2000, the process went very boldly, during the government of Zoran Djindjic, and it is probably the only period when privatisation was implemented systematically and in the right way. The aim was to produce economic growth, generate foreign and direct investments, reduce losses that burdened the entire economy more and increase efficiency and competitiveness. In the 1990s, markets were lost, technologically lagging behind, and practically when privatisation started in 2000, I think that the economy was in extremely poor shape, some of these companies continued to operate by getting new owners. Some unfortunately aren't. Whether it's only the ones who bought these companies or not, that's the thing for some deeper and more detailed analysis. Unfortunately, there have been some negative effects, which is that mostly the only crucial one was the price, so you could either charge the budget or the investments could end up in the economy. In my opinion, it couldn't have been both. The economy needed investment, but then the state that was facing bankruptcy mainly forced a model that was excessively and primarily important to achieve as high a price as possible for that capital. Social enterprises are state-owned and the state has a sovereign hold on that capital, which is also questionable, was that the best model? What may have also been a negative effect is that future capital holders were mainly those who acquired funds to participate in the privatisation of the 1990s, but since they were mainly involved in the traffic of excise goods and food products from Hungary, in the meantime they could not study management and finance, and they did not know how to manage companies that have thousands and thousands of employees and that this was one completely different level of responsibility. If you have money doesn't mean you know you're investing it properly and the negative effects are further derived from it. Since 2005, I think the process has stopped both certain party and some other elites have been mainly for the privatisation process to be stopped. A good part of the company has entered a gray zone and here we can say that these are restructure companies, that these are enterprises where privatisation contracts are broken and some large systems that are eternal losers. They've been under some state patronage for reasons of hiring a large number of people. In my opinion, privatisation did not take place the same way in all parts of the country. I come from Vojvodina, and I think we can give some examples that if there was a political will in different ways, it was handled by different companies, for example. The PIC "Becay" was privatised, while the PKK was declared to be some kind of state well-being of unknown importance. It was also sold to the DDOR, while the Danube Insurance remained as a state because we must have a state-owned company. In both cases, this was sold from Vojvodina, and the other is in Belgrade. "Yugormedia" was sold while Galenika was declared a development locomotive and remained state-owned. Then, "Vojvodjanska Banka" and "Panonska Banka" were sold, etc., while "The Commercial Bank" remained state-owned, which is also in Belgrade and is also of great national importance. If I didn't move on, but let's say Boril and Zastava had the status that the state invested hundreds of millions of euros and gave large subsidies, while the Matroz which was in my municipality and which was the only producer of cellulose and paper in the former Yugoslavia, besides Krško, was released into bankruptcy and the state never gave a penny to try to survive the company. So politics has mainly dictated the way this process will be implemented and the effects are more or less known. Today when we talk about this process, I think we should welcome the intention that it ends as soon as possible, I don't think we have anything else to wait for and that the offered institutes in this law that you have proposed are more or less familiar. I think they're good, if they're going to give the desired effects, I don't know. The public offering with the competition is some model of a mixture of what used to be auctions, selling through the contract is something that was previously called sales through a public tender, replacing the fulfillment and sale of assets and a stock fund, which is previously active, and selling on the capital market are increasingly more and more models that existed before, so what is important is that when we pass this law, what is done sooner and in the right way is applied. It is precisely the problem that still certain structures are not responsible for the privatisation being implemented until the end, because there are a large number of enterprises that are in the gray zone and are managed in a very non-economic way. I don't want to name all of them right now, but they're both operationally in good shape, but I don't think there's a desire for some political structures to privatise them. There are models that have been applied in the region. That's where I'd like to say "precisely Romania," which made the fund management company and introduced some foreign funds. I think that's the case with Frank Templeton and some others who manage a state-run activity, but they do it in an economic way, where capital is then placed on the market, public offerings are made, etc., and the whole sector is grouped, the entire state-run assets are grouped into several of these funds, and then there are emissions of securities of value, etc., etc. You probably know that better than I do, but I think the capital market is something that's completely neglected in our country and it practically doesn't exist, and we're going to have a hard time doing real privatisation until the end, unless we pay attention to that aspect. As far as the Privatisation Act is concerned, we have given several amendments as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and are exceedingly related to the distribution of funds from privatisation revenues, and how local self-government and the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina came to those funds, which existed in the Draft, later expelled. I don't know if you can explain it to us, but it's extremely important to us, so if our amendments are accepted, we could vote for that law. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, the situation is also extremely complex and concerns the duration of bankruptcy proceedings, referring to the possibility of bankruptcy managers to conduct bankruptcy at all. In the vast majority of cases, they do not have the means to implement them to the end, nor are they staffed to carry them out. You're in a paradoxical situation that when bankruptcys open up, the bankruptcy manager doesn't even have the means to publish an ad in the paper, let alone hire appraisers or anything else. I think that it should be taken into account how bankruptcy is opened in the first place, or whether when it is opened, the person who is bankrupt can carry it out to the end. Also, pre-prepared reorganisation plans, it's one segment that should simulate what's called in America the famous chatter left, but I don't think he's had that kind of success with us and should protect the company from the trustees, that is, that the plan and the reorganisation are being implemented later. In our case, it is mostly a list of good wishes and is proposed by the current owner of trustees who are completely uninterested in actively dealing with it. I think the state here had to take a completely different approach to this problem in the sense that all the bad assets of the banks, and that we talked to some previous finance ministers, that the whole bad assets of the banks would move into a new entity and then the state would appear as a trustee, where some charters would be broadcast on the other hand, like the bonds of old foreign currency savings, etc. Anyway, I expect from the financial sector that you will be restructured by the real sector is completely unrealistic and I think that today we have an exceptional problem, that we have 30% of bad placements in bank assets and that banks have no way to deal with these problems at all. Then we come up with these famous, pre-prepared reorganisation plans that are just a dead letter on paper, probably none of them will ever work out. Companies that can operate operationally are failing, but for reasons of over-indebtedness, they can hardly do so. In any case, as far as we are concerned, as far as the SDV League is concerned, if our amendments are considered and accepted, we will vote in favour of these legal proposals, if not, we will vote against, and I wish you much luck and I hope some of these solutions will give some positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5698	Thank you, Mr Stojsic. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5699	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it was finally time for these laws to try to change the current very difficult economic situation and the consequences of very poor privatisation so far. These proposals, which go towards achieving the objectives in the further privatisation process, under conditions, say fair market conditions or towards achieving social stability and ensuring economic development by ensuring the preservation of existing jobs and, of course, the search for new jobs, are probably the basic objectives to be achieved by this reform. In Article 4. The Privatisation Act provides for principles, i.e. the principles of privatisation that are clear, very acceptable. However, it is very important to ensure that the principles are met in practice. The question is how to prevent the continued negative practice in which earlier social and state property was sold into depravity, which even in this direction I think what is mentioned here, that privatisation without compensation, even so far has been present. When absolutely with very low, ridiculous prices you sell very solid and good companies. In this case, it is very important to prevent catastrophic situations when privatisation meant firing workers, and moreover, failure to meet the basic obligations to pay out contributions to PIO and health insurance and creating from workers very difficult social cases. They're literally people being expelled from the firm, from earlier social enterprises to the streets. How to prevent the total lack of transparency from privatizing assets, such as in the case of the company "Brothership" in Presevo, from setting up an illegal condition in the tender for auction privatisation that the buyer must have a four-star hotel? Imagine, trade firms, there should be a four-star hotel. This prevents interested customers from Presevo from using the company's business space anyway. Legal actions have sold the company to a buyer from Vranja who has provided an agreement on alleged joint business with Hotel Maestral in Budva. Presevo merchants continued to use business space at far more expensive rental prices, of course, in the new boss, and later they had to buy shops with three to four times the price compared to the price paid by the resourceful shopkeeper, with a four-star hotel, by the Privatisation Agency. The apparent corruption in this example of auction sales has not been prevented by law so far, although I have repeatedly asked parliamentary questions on this subject. What to say about the company "7. July" with 150 workers in Presevo, who was sold to a private with only five or six workers, who failed to establish production? For a miracle, even after the privatisation was annulled, he was able to buy the same company at very low prices through action. Finally, he managed to drive all the workers away and transfer all the machines to the headquarters of his company in Leskovac. An even more drastic case of the sale of Elektrocontact from Presevo is for only 2,500 euros, although the company's capital is valued at over 500,000 euros. I hope these laws will ensure the creation of conditions for the development of the economy, because so far it has been impossible. It's really a huge question of how to ensure an improvement in the current catastrophic situation in which in Presevo municipality the unemployment rate from earlier 45% rose to almost 80%? The drastic economic downturn and devastation and such undeveloped municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, and other similar undeveloped municipalities of this area, took place with the presence of the government's co-ordination body, which did not address this problem at all. They have some more interesting things, some of their free ideas, but with such life problems so far, with the exception of last year and this year, something with private subsidies helped, but in the privatisation process they absolutely weren't involved, as if it absolutely didn't care about the government's body at all. It's very important in these moments how to prevent further destruction of non-privatised companies, as well as firms that went under bankruptcy, which have not worked for a long time. After the bankruptcy, despite certain initiatives, it failed to establish production. There seems to be some short circuit, a lack of connection between the Asset Agency where this property went under bankruptcy, local self-government and bankruptcy courts. For a miracle, despite the interest in such an undeveloped area to run production, so far absolutely no concrete step has been taken. However, in the post-border situation with Macedonia, after a new situation with Kosovo, the business climate has been demoted there, it is far worse than at a time when these municipalities also had undeveloped status, but after these, I say, historic events, there has been a drastic devasting of this area and has not been able to establish at least a basic operating climate. I asked the question here a few times – why is there no Serbia with Macedonia alone, certain funds from IPA funds for cross-border co-operation with Croatia, with Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, with all sides of the budget, and with Macedonia still not? Earlier, all the companies in the area had a natural co-operation with all the companies in Skopje, Kumanovo, all the way to Ohrid. If we add all the obstacles that have been put in place with Kosovo in the meantime, then the new demoted situation in which nothing concrete has been done so far in overcoming this disastrously difficult situation, to try to at least increase employment, because the 80% rate is incomprehensible for other environments, but it is very present in Presevo. I hope that these new legal solutions and provisions will create more favourable conditions to prevent, in the spirit of a more intense process of economic transformation, that this wave comes to this area and that the current process of destroying and increasing gaps between these highly undeveloped municipalities will be prevented from being developed compared to an average in a country that is, however, lower than before, but this area is even more radically underdeveloped. In that direction, I welcome these efforts and I think these bill proposals are acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5700	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5701	Dear Representatives, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my presentation in front of the JS parliamentary group from the third law of this united debate, which is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedure of Registration at the Agency for Economic Registers, and I will say that we as a Parliament group will support this law, because this law is in fact the technical application of the already existing Accounting Act, which simply forced it to change this existing law, in order not to regulate the same area with two or more laws by means of the same law. When it comes to these two laws, the Law on Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, the JS parliamentary group will in principle support, for the reasons we consider these laws to be merely a continuation of the government's work on the adoption of reform laws aimed at improving the economic and economic situation in the Republic of Serbia, to create the possibility of hiring new workers, and to preserve the existing jobs of workers working in certain businesses. To talk about this Privatisation Act cannot without mentioning the Privatisation Act that was passed in 2001, with certain changes. It seems to me that nine or ten times the changes and additions of an existing, now applicable Privatisation Act have been made. It is known that we all expected, in 2001, that by adopting the Privatisation Act, we would create an economic boom in the Republic of Serbia, by moving certain companies from social to private capital. Unfortunately, in many cases this has not come true, and even many at that time, at the time of privatisation, good companies, have come into the situation that they have lost their assets, other jobless workers, have found themselves in the employment offices, somewhere with severance, somewhere without severance, but in any case without a job, without a job, without a job, without the right to earn, without being able to support their families from their work and from their earnings. It is also known that in 2001 we privatised what was best then in Serbia, such as cement factories, tobacco factories and other factories, not to mention them. We know what we got behind it ourselves. In all these factories, unfortunately, there has been a reduction in the number of employees. The profits, as far as we know from the J.S., weren't exactly followed, at least in some available amount of earnings that workers who worked in these companies had abroad by those who bought them. But it's a good thing we don't stick to much of the past, it was, it turned out to be bad, and that's why this government has decided to offer us a new law of privatisation that we expect to create an opportunity to improve the economic environment and economic situation in the Republic of Serbia and to create opportunities, as I said at the outset, for faster employment of unemployed young people and educated people, as well as for the preservation of existing jobs. What is very important to us from JS is that even after the application and adoption of this law, the privatisation agency must much more closely control the contracts that will be concluded with new social capital buyers, because so far we have had the case that many times there have been delays in the application of the contract, the giving of some new deadlines, and all this was meant, unfortunately and the consequences, that workers have been out of work, that for months and even years in some companies they have not received their profits and that they have simply brought themselves into a state of social need. If this were not to happen in the future, after the entry into force of this law, we from the JS expect that the Privatisation Agency will monitor faster, safer, more responsibly and professionally the application and implementation of the contract by the customers who buy this social capital. What's good and what we welcome in this bill's proposal is that we now have four models of privatisation, that's what Minister Vujovic said, but I would particularly highlight this model of selling property and particularly parts of property. This is something new, and we now have a situation that in certain and large enterprises that are in a very bad situation, with large assets, but an asset that none of the customers are interested in, but is interested in part of that property so that they can use the purchase to design some production and hire a certain number of employees. That's good, and I wouldn't mention those big firms of ours that are in the restructuring process, so I wouldn't forget one, so that's what needs to be taken care of. We welcome it and consider it good, as is the method of selling shares, capital, via tender etc. What is also very good is that it is finally armed and we hope that this deadline will be respected and will not be extended to 31. 12. In 2015, the process of privatising social enterprises, i.e. social capital in the Republic of Serbia, ends with the following fact, which is that today we have 584, if I remember the figures well, the companies that are not privatised, and of which 161 companies are located in the so-called ". restructuring procedure. There simply from the budget, in few cases, they have to touch these companies so they can pay how much money they make to the workers who are left to work in these companies. However, what Mr Vujovic would ask you to do through the Ministry, and to make an account through the Agency, there are many firms in restructuring, there are a number of workers where workers receive certain, I would say very modest earnings, and that management receives abnormally high salaries. My information says there's a manager in some of these companies, a manager, to call them whatever you want who receive 500, 600 thousand dinars. We at JS ask how they're not ashamed to carry home 500,000 dinars and his employee receives 25,000 dinars? What are the results of this management's business in such companies? This should be taken into special consideration in the next period of time. What you said in law is that by applying this law, you need to privatize and bring back to life companies that have so-called companies. a sustainable business, i.e. companies that have a future business in the Republic of Serbia and that they can, by selling, or by buying, simply resuscitating the company, that workers can work in the company, hire new people, etc. Unfortunately, what is not possible will have to go into another bankruptcy, liquidation, etc. I would no longer stick to this privatisation law, I simply said and I repeat that the JS parliamentary group will support this bill in principle, because we expect and will always support those laws that aim to reform the economy in Serbia, to create economic conditions and economic environments, to hire people, to preserve existing jobs, to create conditions that can finally, normally, live from their work, or from their earnings. When we talk about bankruptcy, and at the same time I would say that what I'm about to say concerns the Law on Privatisation, simply in addition to the economic conditions they had, they simply forced us to force the government to propose this new law and to amend and supplement the law on bankruptcy, are also legal obligations, and that is the fact that the Constitutional Court has disputed in several of its decisions certain provisions of the existing law on bankruptcy and of the existing privatisation. This is now also some alignment with these decisions, and also from the application of existing laws and the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Banks, convinced that there should be some changes and additions to these laws, that there is a new text of the Law on Privatisation, and the existing Law on Banks of Banks amending those provisions, those members where it has been seen that application does not give good results, that there are many concerns, uncertainty, failures, etc. It is important that these changes and additions to the Bank's bankruptcy law are done to the extent that bankruptcy can take place, that it cannot last indefinitely, no matter what the statistics indicate in Serbia, a very small number of bankruptcys take many years, it seems to me that two or three percent, but it should also be ordered to end it in a certain period of time and to say that it is that and then there goes liquidation or out of bankruptcy. There seems to be one provision, which is so-called. ahead of a bankruptcy procedure that will also allow certain problems to be resolved more quickly in certain companies that put themselves in a position to go into bankruptcy. What is particularly good and what particularly welcomes the JS, or MP club, is that it is now with the bankruptcy debtor from whom the obligations to have connected persons are placed in the so-called so-called “. ” The fourth degree of the right to settle their obligations, because in the past we have had many cases, I will not say whether there has been a breach of the law or whether there have been some dishonest actions, but in any case, at least in this way it is impossible for those connected persons to put themselves in a more favourable position than some other creditors so that they can settle their claims by a creditor. Also, in a clearer way, a better way of clarifying the rights of hostage creditors where there has been a lot of interpretation, and it is good that in the election of a bankruptcy manager it is now the right of the trustee to propose or give consent to the name of that person who will conduct bankruptcy proceedings in a company where they have some rights, or where they should exercise some of their rights, because so far there have been cases, and we have in practice such cases that for these or those reasons, and you see from the whole of my discussion, and I'm not saying that there have been any dishonest actions, because what I don't have evidence of, I won't even talk about it. But anyway, there's been a bankruptcy manager running at 10, 15 or I don't know how many companies and I'm just asking how physically it's possible that he can handle a quality, responsible, safe and professional bankruptcy procedure in so many companies? Based on all of this, it can be concluded that the JS MPs' Club in Voting Day will support this law and welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Industry and the complete government to create conditions for the adoption of new reform laws to create new jobs, to preserve existing jobs, to raise earnings to employees, to make more normal living in the Republic of Serbia than our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5702	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has an authorised representative, National MP Dr Vesna Besarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5703	Thank you. The proposed Privatisation Act is an important part of the reform law package, to which the government has committed itself and has now referred it to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. We are faced with the inability to effectively end the privatisation process for 584 privatisation entities in the existing legal frameworks, and of which the portfolio of unprivatised enterprises makes up 161 enterprises in restructuring. The total corporate liabilities of the privatisation agency portfolio were 31. 12. In 2013, about 6.6 billion euros, out of which are 3.2 billion euros in commitment to the state. The trend in growth of commitments continues in 2014, which requires a change in the legal framework by introducing transparent models for privatisation of capital and property, based on real market conditions. The proposal for a law on privatisation that is before us contains new models and ways of privatisation, but also revised solutions from good practice so far, which have been redefined, in order to meet the changed economic and social provisions. The aim set out in this proposal is to end the procedure by the end of 2015, with a strengthened and changed role of the Privatisation Agency, which should primarily ensure transparency and price formation in market principles. This is particularly important for companies that are now in a situation that is now in a situation, as we say – in heaven or on earth, and among them there are companies that could survive on the market. In addition to this first goal, which is to end the start and failure of privatisations, the bill should contribute to creating a favourable environment and to new investments, to be an incentive factor in economic development and the preservation of social stability. It should also be borne in mind that by carrying out successful privatisations that this bill should enable and promote, the rights of other participants in the privatisation process, I mean workers, creditors and minority shareholders, in some percentage which is certainly greater than nothing, which is now the case. The bill is in line with EU law and represents a significant part of the corporate and reform law corpus. The aim of the bill is also to minimise the negative fiscal effects and "clearing" the debts that companies in privatisation have towards state creditors. In discussions that preceded the adoption of the Privatisation Law, legitimate objections were expressed that not every company, i.e. that a decision on privatisation can only be made for the entity having a sustainable development perspective. Therefore, the assessment of the sustainability of business, introduced by the new privatisation law, together with information from letters on the intentions of potential investors, will serve as a basis or should serve as the basis for decision making on a model, method and measures for privatising an entity that is a privatisation entity. This means that for a company that does not have a sustainable development perspective, a proposal for bankruptcy will be submitted, rather than privatised at any cost, as the experience so far has proved unsuccessful. The list and assessment of the assets, liabilities and capital itself carried out by the privatisation entity is part of the measure on the way to implementing the concept of sustainable privatisations. The economic logic that the bill advocates is that all the businesses to which this law applies find the right model to be able to get out of the current situation and continue to operate – variant A, or to enter into bankruptcy – variant B. Why are we adopting this law by emergency procedure? Because it is a direct shame that 584 companies are not on the market, but under the auspices of the Privatisation Agency, which is about 800 million dollars a year, with salaries for about 100,000 people who do not work on market principles, plus missed taxes, contributions. Indirect damage is a negative impact of unprivatised enterprises on financial discipline on the market. Therefore, with changes to the Bank's law, for companies that have a credible sustainable development programme, a decision will be made on the method, measures and model of privatisation, and for companies that, unfortunately, do not have the chance, a decision on bankruptcy will be made. The new privatisation law introduces a privatisation obligation for social capital privatisation entities and for public-capital entities. Privatisation models are sales of capital, sale of assets, transfer of capital without compensation and strategic partnership. In the privatisation process, models can be combined, depending on the need. Models are selected on the basis of the expressed interest of investors and the financial and business position of the company that is subject to privatisation. The transfer of capital without remuneration for employees is also foreseen. We've had that before. But the transfer of capital without compensation for strategic investors is now foreseen in the case of positive results that they achieve in their business. I could also call that some kind of reward for investors, and it really represents a significant newspaper, provided that the legal conditions are met, which is a positive business. Of course, the decision is made by the government, based on the report on the results of the business. Privatisation methods are public collection of offers with public competition in the sale of capital and assets and public collection of offers through publication of a public call for the selection of a strategic partner, where the government determines qualifications conditions. I personally welcome that the earlier proposed method of direct sales, or direct contract, which was left out in earlier proposals or draft laws. I believe that this direct contract method contains quite serious deficiencies and can potentially open the door to various forms of illicit behavior. One of the new privatisation models envisioned by the bill is the sale of assets in the privatisation process, which, when necessary, has positive effects through maintaining employment, creating new jobs, increasing tax revenues and increasing confidence. As such, it has significant advantages over the sale of assets in bankruptcy where we have various other situations that we cannot control, when I say we, I mean the Agency, like. that the buyer is free to change the performance of the privatization entity. When it comes to sales under the privatisation process, the Agency may also set conditions that the partner must respect and have a higher degree of control than when all this is happening in the bankruptcy process. Since the alternative to privatising the company is a bankruptcy process, the new Privatisation Act offers conditions for the privatised company to become solvable or to be within a reasonable period of time, making it possible for the state to obtain budget revenues through taxes. It is known that the fiscal effects of the measure are not positive in the privatisation because the most frequent write-off is the demand of state creditors and the conversion of debt into capital, but if this is reflected in the position of further growth of the tax debt of the privatisation company, state subsidies and the cost of maintenance of an entity that does not generate income, then this is still a more favourable solution for the state and the business environment. In all this, the intention of attracting foreign investors and strategic partners who would be willing to participate in the privatisation of remaining capital and property in the privatisation entity is also seen. The attractiveness of this intention must rest on the new approach that the bill has, not at all costs and not for everyone, privatisation, but for companies with a sustainable development concept. This will bring economic activity back to life, employment growth, opportunities for workers, trustees and small shareholders, which I find very important, to begin with the exercise of their rights. Particular attention is drawn to how to regulate the strategic partnership as a privatisation model through the institutional relationship between domestic or foreign investors with a privatisation entity or the Republic of Serbia. The partnership is carried out through a joint investment, through the creation of a new company, a new business entity with the Republic, which is the role of the Republic, and this is a very new and interesting solution, the property that the Republic has acquired on the basis of the claim it has on the privatisation entity, which it has written off as a claim against the privatisation entity. Another way is to capitalise on an existing privatisation entity. In all cases, the Agency shall have the role of the supervisory authority based on the report of the authorised auditor. It is realistic to expect that the new regulations will provide a legal framework for the implementation of the privatisation process under new rules, which means an effective and transparent completion of procedures that have started on fair market conditions and compliance with other regulations, before the world, I mean the rules of the Bank and that we will succeed in launching the whole procedure, which means that the deadline foreseen by law, December 2015. Now a few words about the bill on amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law. The basis of the proposal for this law is to create conditions for "cleaning" the existing business environment and creating a good business environment through more efficient implementation of bankruptcy procedures. The application of the existing law pointed to inadequate legal solutions, not precise formulas that generated arbitraryness and lack of transparency in conduct. This allowed different abuses to be made to corruption as extreme or in a mild variety of unsustainableness, indifference to end the procedure as professionally better way by a bankruptcy director, a bankruptcy judge, and to creditors who have been passive in many procedures, which seems paradoxical, but we do have such experiences as well. The bill contains several important newspapers that need to address the perceived shortcomings and comply with the modern law on bankruptcy, and offer a more modern, more recognizable business environment to foreign investors along with the Privatisation Act. By public publication of all data during the bankruptcy process, the authorised organisation's website is one of the newspapers the law contains. The procedure will become transparent for all interested parties. Then the status of the connected faces that we have already heard is regulated, which is mentioned. Related persons are persons who are connected to the creditor in a new way, so that those persons are now in line with the fourth, last payment order and cannot choose, nor can they be elected, which is also important, in the Committee of Trustees, in order to prevent the revote of creditors by connected persons. It is also the new position of the bankruptcy manager, who has received new obligations. He is elected with the consent of the trustees, he has been expanded in part of the business, for example, to refuting legal actions when necessary, which has not been the case so far. Professional supervision of the work of bankruptcy managers by the authorised organisation shall be introduced and the measures to be implemented under the disciplinary procedure carried out. The reporting obligation of the bankruptcy manager has been redefined, as well as his responsibility for the damage caused. The papers are in the formation and work of the Commissioners' Assembly and the selection of the Committee of Trustees, as well as the way the Committee of Trustees decides. The new position of resolutional creditors, these are creditors who have the right to do things and rights, which are governed by public books, have the right to primarily settle from the funds achieved by the sale of assets. A significant newspaper is also a new position of hostage creditors, these are persons who have a right to things and the rights of bankruptcy debtors, and do not also have a monetary claim to the creditor, which is provided by the issuer's rights. The bill provides that the applicant is not obliged to apply for bankruptcy proceedings, but is obliged to notify the court of the existence of a stock on the assets of the creditor. The publisher does not vote in favour of the reorganisation plan, but the reorganisation plan cannot change or reduce its rights. The proposal for a bankruptcy law lays down the date of entry into force of the reorganisation plan as the date of validity of the resolution on the confirmation of the reorganisation plan. It is then limited to the level of advances for small or as the law calls them "micro" companies, in order to facilitate the opening of bankruptcy for them and to prevent arbitrary determination of the same advance. One of the newspapers is the abolition of the obligation to obtain the Commission's consent to protect competition in the submission of a reorganisation plan, which has so far existed, unless the bankruptcy debtor is a medium or large legal person under the law governing criteria for determining medium and large legal persons. The change also has justifications when it comes to small businesses due to savings in costs due to savings in time. The bill also contains new provisions on international bankruptcy, a new chapter, and by applying rules on the head office of the main business, which is the most frequently registered seat, foreign legal entities, which meet that condition, implement and must conduct bankruptcy in the Republic of Serbia under this law. The new Banking Act should remove the observed deficiencies in the bankruptcy procedure, for example, should be prevented. The challenge of deliberate bankruptcy, which we had in practice, to redefine certain issues, and all in the spirit of increasing confidence rates, reducing the cost of bankruptcy proceedings and speeding up the procedures that are now being conducted, whose average is between three and four years, in banks, it is much longer, we know, to a European standard that reads for one to two years. That would end the exposure. Finally, I would say that the SDPS will support the Privatisation Law and the Amendment Law and the Supplements on bankruptcy in the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5704	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5705	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we have legal solutions in front of us that touch not so few economic operators. The exact number I don't think we know now, not even those in restructuring, not those who are subject to changes in ownership structure or privatisation, but well, we'll agree on the number. We don't even know the exact number of employees, but it's not small. All these people are looking forward to this today. When I say they're waiting with attention, I didn't say they're expecting it, because these are almost a decade and a half in a state of expectation. The state of expectation leads to demobilization, disorientation and the opposite of what is the state of one normal expectation, which would be normal mobilization, normal economic activity. These companies are currently on the sidelines. They're in some economic twilight zone, and I hope we try to get these legal solutions back. I listened very carefully to Mr. Secretary. I was also helped by the presentation of an esteemed colleague. I've gotten a full picture of these legal solutions. I've read and followed a little bit, and I can express my confidence that this will be a shift in the solution to this, I'd say, big problem. A new legal solution speaks of the sale of assets by these companies says new legal ones. I would remind you, Mr. Minister, you may agree with me, that the way privatisation in Serbia mostly went in this direction that the property of companies was being purchased and precisely because of the purchase of company assets, our gross social product today barely reaches 60% of the one from 1989. The company's ability to earn money was second-guessed. The ability of these companies to work, to make money was irrelevant. This is important for the viewers who are following us. Most of the time, people have bought only the property of businesses before. It was interesting what had a business building that could collapse, and that's where we're going to build 100 or 200 thousand squares that we can't sell today. So, this legal solution, it's only legal, which was a practice. Dear Professor Jovan Rankovic defined it. He says the assets of the company were purchased, debts remained to the state, and workers received a social programme, which means a trip under the feet. I hope that these legal solutions will end this agony that these economic operators are in. We don't have any more time. We don't have time to wait 15 and 15 years for those hundreds of thousands of people, here I mean the enterprises in restructuring, to definitely know where they are. The Berlin Wall fell a long time ago. The illusions that all will be rich are torn down, but also the last ones, that they will keep their jobs. Looks like she's about to get knocked down too. Therefore, if these legal solutions, which I consider to be good, are late but good, let us apply, now, we come to that word – application, and the best legal solutions here have always been a problem, not as such, but precisely their application. As far as the entities to which these legal solutions are concerned, I think of the state authorities, that this is in practice realised, it will show time. There's an obligation on you, Mr. Minister, at the agency, on all people. What's good about this whole thing is that engagement time. We just put on a rapper until when and when we have to finish it. So far, that wasn't the case. As far as these bankruptcys are concerned, it's clear how they've been going, how they're going, in which way, in which time frames. We all knew that. This congregation has adopted legal solutions. There were people sitting here, and every time everyone was very happy with these new legal solutions. They were the best possible. Were they, speaking 24 controversial privatisations. I wouldn't worry about them whether they're controversial or indisputable. It's much more important to me than to someone who deals with the economy whether they were successful or not. The least important thing here is who owns it. It is important that we succeed in putting some of these businesses on our feet, whether we include them in the system, whether they will start to work, whether these people will be able to make their profits, and if Serbia's budget is adequately charged. That's the point. All we're doing is one means. The main goal is this – the launch of economic activity. We have a key and vital goal ahead of us. I don't think anyone in this room will be against this kind of solution. Of course, we also expect amendments to certain things that will contribute significantly. I think we should accept them wherever there's an argument that something can be fixed, because it's our common goal to bring this business to an end. This is not a political point for any political party, nor should it be. It's the rest of something, it's standing right here, and we need to figure it out as soon as possible. I wouldn't be long. The PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these legal solutions. They will closely monitor how it is implemented in practice. In the end, that appeal again. I appeal to you, to your associates, to certain institutions that it is not enough to declare it. It's the least important. It's important, of course, but as we're going to do it in practice, that's where we have to invest all the energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5706	Thank you, Mr. Krkobaci. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5707	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Vujovic, as I recall, you are the first time in the Assembly to defend a law. Is that right? This is not exactly commendable for this government, since this government has been talking about going through aggressive employment and we could have expected laws from your area of finance that would speed up that employment. You're here today to defend the bankruptcy law. Do you know what the bankruptcy law is called in practice, how it explains itself to students? It's the law on the legal death of companies. Is the law on bankruptcy that you give hope to businesses, the unemployed, people who have lost their jobs or this law, as well as the Privatisation Act, creating a new army of unemployed? Different estimates. Is that right? From 20 to 50 grand the Privatisation Act will be out of a job. No wonder the ruling coalition didn't give you a round of applause this morning, even on our notice, there wasn't a single round of applause on your exposure. There's a rather peaceful atmosphere going on, not to say a dreary one, in support of these laws. It is not clear that these laws bring good to Serbia. They are back on their noses made, two or three days before the end of 100 days of this government. Put in the procedure as 99% of the laws that arrived in this Assembly by emergency procedure and which of the MPs managed to read all these five hundred pages. The previous speaker, a PUPS official, says that he listened to your presentation, that he had read something a little bit, so that he could support a law that he hadn't read.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5708	Mr. Veselinović, don't comment on the presentation of other MPs. Go back to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5709	Please don't interrupt me. Is it enough for someone to get the position of director of a public enterprise, or to stay in that place... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5710	I shut you down. I asked you to return to the topic, not to comment on the speeches of other MPs and to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5711	Excuse me, Chairman, which member of the Rules of Procedure prohibits me from commenting on the presentation of previous speakers? You've got a message, you're listening. Is that right? The chairman warns you that you will lead the session. Is that right? So you have not explained to me which member of the Rules of Procedure prohibits commenting on the speech of previous speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5712	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5713	I've moved on, and I'll continue, if you'll allow me. Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5714	I've given you your time back, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5715	I ask – is it enough for someone to get or retain the position of a director of a public enterprise to support the law and not be listed as nine directors of public enterprises that were removed yesterday? Is that one of the mechanisms by which this government works? Will that bring new jobs? Will this allow pensions to be paid in this amount or will they be reduced in the coming days, as well as salaries? Are these laws on bankruptcy and privatisation? What is the moral value of someone talking about the past 12 years when some salaries and some pensions have been paid anyway, so that they now look back at that period, like the period in which it was bad? This isn't any reform law. There is no aggressive employment here, but opportunities for employees to lose their jobs. It's not the scariest thing. You're not giving them any opportunities, Mr. Minister, to get a job. What law did you put into a procedure that enables foreign investment and job creation? Who's going to make up for these 20,000 or 50,000 people who are going to lose their jobs? How are you going to hire these people? Do you have an answer, Mr. Vujovic? Have you prepared that response for these 100 days, how long have you been sitting in government? It's not easy for you. You're both the finance minister and the economy minister. Whether it's going to be the next few days we need to hear it, but you just don't have a solution for it. Every day we are a longer and longer country, with an ever-increasing deficit, with less and less revenue being collected by the state because of the black market and the grey economy, there are no jobs. What have you done, Mr. Vujovic? It's nice to drive from Belgrade to Nis. It's nice to play a chess game, but what do the citizens of Serbia have from that chess game, what do they have from the song they heard on that bus? Who can sing in Serbia after laws like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5716	Mr. Veselinović, I asked you to come back on the subject. Don't talk about buses, about anything else, but go back and talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5717	This is what we're talking about, which is to make it impossible for the opposition to speak. The fact that Mr. Babic warns you from the place that I am back on the subject does not oblige you to react necessarily. I'm very well on the subject, and I know very well that these people who are out of a job, according to this law, don't have a chance to get a job, because there are no laws that have created these conditions. Mr. Vujovicu, at the beginning of your presentation, you said this was a Lex specialis. This entails certain legal consequences. Lex specialis derrogates laws relating to the same matter and which could be the subject of this Lex specialist, and I mean the Privatisation Act. You will give me an answer, if possible, to Mr Vujovic, whether this privatisation law derogates Article 1. The agricultural land law, which says – the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. As you presented this law this morning, it's the fact that it derogates. So the owner can also become a foreign legal or physical person. I ask you: does this mean that land, agricultural land, will be able to become the property of foreign natural persons? The other day, you stated, on May 15th, that you had a good look at your safe and that you did not find a contract there concluded with “Etihad” on the privatisation of JAT airports. I can imagine you, Minister, going through that safe and then saying there's no contract where the contract is. Did you then call the Prime Minister and ask him where the Ethyhad contract was? Did you find out in the meantime? We have here a chronology of unfulfilled promises regarding that contract. Since 1 August 2013, Sinisha Maloko, then president of Belgrade's Business Council, Aleksandar Vukic, then Deputy Prime Minister Sinisha Maloko, again as mayor, Zorana Mihajlovic. The statements mainly apply in 15 days, seven days, in a month you will see the contract with "Etihad". This is about privatisation. This is about implementing the Privatisation Act. Mr. Minister, there are no new provisions in this law to protect against such privatisations, which you will conclude with a contract, not with a foreign company, but with a foreign state, a state in which the ownership of companies is by system – the state itself and with these countries is not prohibited from concluding a contract with a direct contract. We in opposition talk about it when we say that the possibility is not overcome. There is a possibility of a direct agreement with a foreign country. If this is in principle how it was done with "Etihad", with the sale of JAT airports, land in Vojvodina and Serbia, then we will have safes in which there will be no contract. We can't support these laws, Mr. Vujovic. Not only because we failed to see the legal and economic consequences of their application, we couldn't. So in 24 hours, 600 pages to read, six laws from different areas, that's not possible. Not only that, but because we have bad experience with your laws and bad experience with your staff. We mentioned before you didn't have a finance minister in the government. So who's the finance minister already? How many changes were there in the government? How can we believe that these laws do not bear some consequences that will be very bad for Serbia? How can you guarantee these laws, for their application, that they will not be at the expense of public enterprises, for example? The obligation of public undertakings to write off the debt of enterprises that are in restructuring, or undertakings that are to be privatised. Well, isn't it just a load transfer from one economic subject to another? So we have a privatized company, we have on the other hand a public company that writes off a claim on that company that is privatized, and what is the possibility? There is a possibility that it can be compensated through the prices of services that these companies provide, say, electricity prices, to increase electricity prices, to compensate for that loss, or to increase budget allocation for these public enterprises. It's a closed circle. No one benefits from that closed circle. We can't, Mr. Vujovicu, like you didn't get a round of applause from the people who chose you for this bill today, because they probably don't believe he'll bring anything new, because it's not a sufficiently precise role of the Privatisation Agency. It is not clear in which cases, or under what conditions, will the Government propose to the competent authority of the AP, the city, the municipality in general a decision to privatise a company? So there are no clear criteria for that. Great discretion is given to your ministry, or to a newly joined ministry that may arise from your ministry and the Ministry of Finance. There are frequent provisions that some questions will be governed by sublegal acts. It would be normal if we went to transparency to get these issues settled by law. We also have a serious problem with the conversion of government trustees to capital, because it also in some ways represents debt forgiveness. Because if the State forgives that entity's debt as a trustee, it again becomes the owner of that economic society on the basis of that conversion. And what did we get here? So the state did not get out of that company, but stayed there, captured some claims for capital worth or not. The draft bankruptcy law does not cover any changes relating to the accuracy of the majority of the trustee’s powers and is not clear when the trustee’s congregation can seek the replacement of the bankruptcy director if it is dissatisfied with his work. Neither is this law sufficiently precise powers of the Privatisation Agency. In amendments and additions to the law on bankruptcy, too much authority has been given to the ministry again, as provisions are being reintroduced here that say the minister will regulate certain issues by sublegal acts. And here we think it would be better if those provisions were incorporated into the text of the law. Dear ministers, therefore, you owe us MPs, but also Serbian citizens a response, what will past the phrases we have heard in the past month, the type of Belgrade on the water, the arrival of foreign investors who have no sign of a voice, new staff solutions in the public enterprises that are being announced, and then set up a VD of conditions that will take some time. What will you do in your jurisdiction to try to amortise the consequences of these two laws, amendments and additions to the law on bankruptcy and changes and additions to the Privatisation Act, which do not bring any news, which only regulate matters in a different way? It is not clear whether the Privatisation Act will speed up privatisation and whether or not we will complete the privatisation process for the next two or three years. The process has been delayed for decades. No government has been able to complete this process. One of the basic promises of this government was that it would solve this issue and not by sending workers on the street, the street workers were already enough, but by creating conditions for these companies to start working, and if they can't work to get those workers to work somewhere. Neither does the work nor the voice of it, Minister. What job is it, not open, but in the perspective of Serbia, which investor should cover and hire people who will be jobless? You have no answers, Mr. Minister. We won't get it for another day, and I'm not afraid for months. And perhaps as Mr. Finance Minister Krstic, whose function you are now performing, you will realize that you simply do not have a team that can solve these issues. I think you understand that personally and now, because you're a man who's been in the economy for a long time, and you probably understand what position you're in, and you're probably aware that this country with this kind of government has no ability to create conditions for new investments, to create conditions for new jobs. On the contrary, to create fewer jobs, to reduce wages, to reduce pensions, and to further collapse the economic system in the coming period. To these questions, Mr Vujovicu, Serbian citizens expect answers. Change in these provisions of the bankruptcy, privatisation laws, they don't mean anything. Here, Mr. Chairman, since they're giving you suggestions and probably asking you to intervene, I'll finish my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5718	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5719	Mr. Chairman, Article 106(1) of the school would have said, "Sit down, one" at the school after this exposure. Not that the subject is missed, but the classroom is missed, the subject is missed, and I expect from you, Mr. Chairman, not to allow any further humiliation of the reputation of the National Assembly, if the MP is discussing the law, and in advance he says he did not read it. So what are we discussing here? On the subject? That everyone can enter this hall and talk about what they want, about buses, about chess, about safes, about songs, about everything but what life means in Serbia. The facial smile on the face of the previous speaker means that 400,000 people he left out of work, who his regime, his government he supported, are laughing at without a job. And now he asks Mr. Vujovic where the jobs are. Now I ask Mr. Vujovic where the jobs are? I ask you, Mr. Veselinović, where are the jobs, the exact places you ruined, that you burned down? I ask you, Mr. Veselinović, although I do not have the right to speak personally, where are your answers? Where are the answers to those who are now criticizing and seeking answers? Where are the answers to 800m euros that cost, directly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5720	Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5721	... and indirectly how much are companies in restructuring, how much are companies that didn't privatize, how much are increased pensions, how much are increased salaries in the public sector of 68%, and we've had a decline in economic growth and a decline in production? Based on what? Just to win the election. And now complaining about this evil fate and seeking answers. This government of the Republic of Serbia, which has the full support of the SNS parliamentary group, not only whether it has applause or has no applause, has votes and has confidence, not only of the MPs, but also of the citizens of Serbia, has kept their promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5722	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5723	As a non-party figure, I'll try to answer some questions. Let me split them into two groups first, if I may. One issue concerns laws that are under discussion today, and another is issues that may be better discussed in the government's report than 100 days of work expected on August 3rd or 4th. Secondly, I don't want to get lost in phrases, let's talk about the essence. So if I start with your first assessment that it's a law on legal death, the old law was a law on legal death, dying in wars. We're trying to make this law of bankruptcy and the Privatisation Act become reanimation laws. We're entering a reservation where there are half-dead companies, where we're trying to get out and save what can be saved. Therefore, we can agree or disagree on whether we propose good things. Don't slow down the motive, please. Our goal is to try from these 56,389 workers in restructuring and yet additional 36,601 workers in enterprises located in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency to save the maximum number of jobs, activate resources that have not contributed to the growth of the social product for years, which stand and lose value. So that's our goal. Is this law a good solution? We can discuss this and ask you to reach the best possible solution with a concrete solution in the laws and amendments to these solutions. It's my appeal, a non-partisan appeal to what we're doing here. I think there's something beyond the interests of politics, the interests of individual parties in this situation. Another very important. By reason of the public on the work, we were going to start working on, as you know, we withdrew all the laws from the essential procedure of the moment when Parliament appointed us and intended to return those laws within 15 days, i.e. to work on returning those laws to the procedure. With unfortunate circumstances, floods, this work has been delayed for two weeks, and at the end of May, we set off for the job, not on May 14th, as we planned. We included all the ministries and the widest part of the professional public we could find in those deadlines. As you can see, on our team there is Professor Branko Radulović from the Faculty of Law who is one of the best experts in the field of bankruptcy, in the area of privatisation we have not only had our people and our experience but directly and indirectly included all the international organisations that have practically worked in this country and in all other countries. So we've tried every possible way to include the mind that's been available to us. We continue to expect today and as long as this debate takes to help us all with concrete proposals to apply these solutions in the best way in order to achieve the goal that we have set for ourselves. As soon as we finished this public debate was due to some administrative small waitings, documents were placed on the Ministry of Industry's website, the public debate was officially closed on July 14th, it lasted a full 20 days with four regional broad gatherings, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Belgrade, and five-six major meetings of professional ones where we tried to attract all possible people who had something to say about these laws. The public debate ended on July 14th, we worked day and night since then to include all objections, if you pay attention to what was put on our site and what appeared as a law in the Assembly, we have tried to rule out all controversial issues. Where there are other solutions in other laws, we tried to get out of this law so that we wouldn't hold back from things that could be controversial, which could be the subject of any political, party or other dispute. Our goal is that this law does not solve what it does not have to solve, to solve what is the problem, and the problem is these, as I mentioned, all together 92,990 people who are waiting for a solution and our goal is to offer this solution. To explain the point, I didn't want to talk much about it at first today. To move forward, we have a few big things that we need to put away, which are on our way, to move forward. You can't go with 92,000 people and claims, with total liabilities of 6.6 billion euros to go forward, it's on your way to the financial system, on the way to employment, on the way to everything the state is trying to do. It's not our good will to waste time on it, it's necessity. You have to remove those metastases so you can survive and move forward. We don't expect God to know what, it won't be easy. People who get severance will get at least something, what's very important, will get a clear signal that we want a new start, that we want people to understand that they're out of work, the moment they go into restructuring that they're going to lose their wages, but they're going to get social aid now and they're going to start with a new perspective on the future, looking for a job, looking for their own future. We want it to be that way. Does this law offer a solution? No, I don't. Surgery doesn't offer a solution, it's a necessary, painful path towards healing, and it's not by itself a solution. Is what we do parallelly, budget rebalance, and a deal with the fund, is that the solution? No, I don't. This is the way to turn this economic ship and the situation in which the debt is increasing, to stop it, to stop the deficit, to reduce it to a sustainable level by 2017 and to make it a new start. I can't answer all the things that happened from April 27th to April 27th. Believe me, I wish I knew all the answers, but I don't know. I said what I saw from the documents on handover and balance in the office, the safe I inherited. So I told the truth about it. What's going on right now? As you know, revisions of some contracts, additions, etc. They're in the government and there's procedures, the law and everything. Among other things, we removed a direct contract from the law because we felt it was being realised on the basis of interstate agreements ratifying this parliament. You're ratifying it, not me. These contracts have more power than individual laws, and therefore in this House it is up to each contract to ratify its analysis and its legal, social and other consequences, both positive and negative. Is this reform law? This is reform law as well as any surgery in a broader context. So this is a reform law as well as the Labour Act because it defines new conditions, new legal and institutional conditions to move into new investment. In order for investors to come, to invest here, in order for Serbia to maintain and raise its credit rating, she has to deal with some of the problems we inherited. Since I'm not a party figure, it's not my place to judge who's political, party or otherwise responsible, it's mine to try and find a solution and get out of this situation. If you'd asked me, I'd have answered your questions about public enterprises, as we're about to do. The next law in the series will be the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Investment Encouragement. One is once again focused on cleaning up the existing situation and on more efficient management of public funds that are not small in public enterprises. Professionalisation of governance, cleaning these companies and including responsibility from parliament, so-called State audit institutions that have well-organised public enterprises are the top authority that has to approve all of this will be the proposal at the heart of this law. Our bill will be that the DRI will be the main judge who will eventually say whether it's good or not. The Ministry will share responsibility. The economy ministry, whoever is at the helm, will determine how these public enterprises effectively use state property in the EPS, in the post, in "Serbia", in every place, and not just public enterprises. If you read the Ministry Act, which you passed on April 25th, the mandate of this Parliament and the Ministry of Economy will be to affect all state-owned enterprises. It means that we influence the quality of the choice of management, the determination of strategy, business policies, appointments and resolutions, supervisory authorities. Look at the law, it's all there. I expect that we will have a debate when we discuss how to do what is best and how to turn public enterprises into things that can be applied. So, I totally agree with you, I just think the criticism course is premature. We can't do everything in 100 days. What we did, we do things in order. Right after 100 days, we are expected to rebalance the budget, by next Saturday, and a draft agreement with the Fund, as a prerequisite for having a three-year programme that we need to reverse this difficult financial situation. We can't go from 8% of the deficit to 3% of the sustainable in one step. No one can do that, and that's why we're looking for space to do it in three years. So, within that, we're passing a law on stimulation, where we want to rightly stimulate real investment. That's my idea. As this is solved in reality, it depends on all of us. It's not just the law, it's up to all of us. As you know, the government's regulation is a discretionary decision to be minimized. Five ministers have been appointed to decide on all the stimulation and attraction of foreign investors. Each of your proposals to improve this, our proposal is to base this on professional proposals, not on discretionary decisions of individuals, but on real assessments of economic opportunities and opportunities of attracting foreign investment. What are we gonna do? That's exactly what I'm suggesting. We're going to do a combination of heavy short-term steps, parallel to short-term stimulations, so that we can rely on laws that travel the way to do it in three years. What are we doing in three years? The goal of what I'm saying is to minimise the painful costs for the population, for the employees, and to maximise the savings we can achieve in public enterprises and elsewhere. As I mentioned, the EPS losses in energy transmission are 18%. There are 6% to 7% in the world. The charge is 84%. Multiply 0.82 with 0.84 and you will get that Serbia is only two-thirds of the revenue generated by the energy that has passed from the high voltage network, which has been delivered. Just two-thirds. So we're throwing one-third at the start. How do we use that energy? Serbia has the highest share of electricity in the social product per unit of social product. The least we can do is use light bulbs that save energy seven to one, and everyone in the world does that. It's a cheap investment and it has huge effects, and we don't. Serbia has the opportunity to produce vacuum glass that saves energy of 30 per cent and more. We don't do that either. It is only one example in public enterprises that says Serbia can save several hundredm euros in health, education, salaries and pensions, instead of saving them, to save money from being thrown away, to warm up the air, and to throw away steam. My proposal is that in the coming years, by saving those things that can only hurt, you mentioned and others mentioned, high salaries of privileged people in public enterprises, who may not even know where their office is, and that what is better and what is the basis for the future is achieved at the expense of those savings. Thirdly, not a little bit important, it's very important that what we're doing be a well-founded step by step and that everyone believes us, that people themselves believe in us that they can no longer be unskilled and incompetent people to come to places where they decide about the administration of social resources. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying that there are no expectations that they will escape, that this thunder will pass and that they will avoid these things, but I'm telling you that it's our intention to do it. So what we're planning can't end in 100 days, not in a year. I didn't speak on purpose about the implementation plan at the start of the debate. Everyone here said that applying these laws is the most important thing. I agree, we have a very detailed application plan, but I didn't want to jump before I did and talk about it. We plan, if this is adopted by the end of July or early August, that within ten days, as soon as the law becomes legal, we complete the basic technical preparations and come out with a call for partners and investors interested in all 584 enterprises that are the main objective of this privatisation. Other privatisations will be based on other criteria. When "Telecom" or another public enterprise will be privatised will depend on a whole series of economic factors, where I propose that this parliament be involved in the decision-making process, but this is a long-term issue. This is now a question of solving what is called a burden of the past. It's inherited. I repeat, I won't get into who's guilty, but the fact is that's the way it is and that's what we have to solve. What's waiting for us? We are expected to expect that after 30 days, I expect by half or the end of September people to say – they are vacations, leave a few weeks, nothing will change. Nothing's going to change in those few weeks, to get quality suggestions and try to get as many companies as possible to find buyers, but it's most important to be the ones who can keep these companies on the market. Without it, these companies are not enterprises, they're social, they're just a channel through which we direct social giving. I'm not against social giving, but I'm against deception. We can't think that's sustainable on a longer term. Like I said, these people lost their jobs 15 years ago, and now they're gonna lose their pay, they're gonna get welfare. He'll lose his salary, but he won't lose his ability to get a new job if we do this the right way, believe me. So, that jump, it's like a skydiving jump. There's one moment if the parachute will open. I say - we offer some laws that will help us open that parachute and our goal is to minimise the cost, but to achieve something. Believe me, I've been doing this since Thailand in 1979 to a whole series of other countries. It works, but we all have to be at the same job and do the same thing. Finally, about predicting the role of the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry, etc., I want to tell you one very important thing. We can't and shouldn't eliminate discretionary decision-making, but he has to be held accountable. I'm not against discretionary decision-making, but the Agency must take responsibility for proposing a model, method and measure. You can't do it without it. There are no criteria they can do without the Agency and without institutions to function. What's important is that we know who suggested and why, did he falsify the data that there was a technology market, management, people, credit ability, an investor and that he tried to play the whole process. If someone signs it professionally, as will sign these large consulting houses to make sense, and then the Ministry assesses it and finds the investor, the investor offers money and a credible programme, I say it makes sense that I, as a minister, sign it on the basis of their proposal. So I'm not against discretionary decision-making with responsibility, but I'm against making criteria that doesn't know who's from where something decided, that some channels, which are completely unclear to you and me as a minister, something is happening, that someone gets some stimulation or forgiveness of debts or anything that happens without rules, without public knowledge, under some veil of secrecy. That's what we want to avoid. So I think it's amongst the steps to have some things that are specific, but they're leading us the right way. What else do I want to say? Specific suggestions. I think colleague Marijana Radovanovic and colleague Ivana Matic represent these two key agencies in these things. I think they're aware of the responsibilities they accept. They're asking us all to support them in this process. So we have to take off the Stigm that the Privatisation Agency serves as a place to launder money and make private deals. That's what you need to help us with. Here's colleague Mariana, the condition that she accepts to be an executive is that we know what we're doing and what criteria we're doing. So much for now, and specific objections to the law please deliver in the form of an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5724	I thank Minister Vujovic. The word has a folk MP, Krkobic, according to the Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5725	The goal of a corporation or a company is to be profitable, to grow and develop, to invest and be socially responsible to employees and its environment. This is a unique opportunity for Serbian citizens to hear me, to break some delusions. "Post" is not a monopolies, "Post" is a market positioned enterprise. The post office is profitable. There is a colleague, Ciric, who can confirm all this. The net profit, respected friends, from 2012 to 11m euros increased to over 25m euros in 2013, investments of 45m euros in own funds and all obligations towards employees were met. Today we have had the Supervisory Board and I can inform you that the business profit, this is also very important for the citizens of Serbia, this house is 6 months higher by 60%, the profit from the previous year. This government's goal, not just these governments, but all of us here are results and responsibility. These are the goals we can make moves with. Whether someone will be the director of a public enterprise or not, the Serbian government will decide, but will respect the results. As for me and the parliamentary group, our support is principled, our support is one concept established in this assembly, exposed by the prime minister, and it is too large to relate to such a small thing, such as the director of a public enterprise. It's an honor and responsibility for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5726	Thank you, Mr. Krkobic, for your time. The word has been given by MP Nedo Jovanovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5727	Dear ministers, respected co-workers, representatives of institutions, with these previous discussions that went beyond harsh criticism, I will return to a far more realistic discussion, by pointing out that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, the Law on Privatisation, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure with the Agency for Economic Registers, no doubt represent reform laws that must be passed in order to continue the process of bringing domestic legislation into line with European Union legislation. This is the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we must accept this obligation and, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, help to make the Republic of Serbia a permanent member of the European Union through the adoption of these reform laws. In that sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, not only for these reasons, but for the reasons that I will state in the later course of this discussion, and for reasons that will bring out my colleagues from the parliamentary group in their discussions, undoubtedly supports this legal act. In the voting day, we will vote for that legal act. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, the first thing to do is start with the law on changes and additions to the law on bankruptcy. There is no doubt that the existing Banking Act, which contains in itself both the norms of material and legal nature and the norms of a procedural and legal nature, is a good basis for these changes and additions to obtain quality improvements, which in any case will ensure that the objectives of bankruptcy and bankruptcy are achieved as a legal institute. And what are these objectives, Mr. Minister, during today's debates, that are constantly ignoring something that is a fundamental postulate of bankruptcy? That's two goals. The first goal is to achieve trustees' interest in the greater extent, through as high quality and to the greatest extent possible to settle their claims, and to achieve this through another objective, and the second objective is to form an effective bankruptcy process, and the process which takes as short as possible and with as little cost as possible is effective. However, these two targets go towards one goal. That one goal is to create a business environment. Let's not be wrong, the business environment in Serbia cannot be achieved only by these two reform laws. It is necessary to bring others, we have already brought one, it is the Labour Act, because that is the only way to provide legal certainty, both for economic operators in our country and for potential investors that we should attract. What is undoubtedly significant is that the focus of the public, both professional and general public, was on bankruptcy institutes. There are colleagues present and the general public and how well they know how many media have written about abuses, abuses of bankruptcy managers, abuses of bankruptcy judges, how many violations of a level playing field, how many times there have been inadequate interpretations of certain provisions of the Bank's bankruptcy law, which led to unequal case law, and this unequal case law generates legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty for both parties in the process and for all those who expect judicial protection. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group supports new solutions in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Banks, which prevents abuses, corrupt actions, as well as any other form of illegality. Given that I pay considerable attention to bankruptcy in my legal profession, I will give myself freedom on behalf of my parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia to make a personal point, which is that the changes and additions have done a lot, and much in the sense that one great quality has been achieved. This quality is manifested by the introduction of the fourth payment order in which the persons associated with the bankruptcy debtor are placed and, most importantly, those persons cannot be elected into bankruptcy organs. But for the sake of the citizens, let's explain what these are connected persons to the debtor, somehow getting away from it. Well, these are mostly close relatives of the creditor, who founded businesses, they're in the right line of children, husband in the improved line, brothers, sisters, their children. Those as natural persons and as founders of companies are connected persons with a creditor and there is a great possibility of abuse if they are in bankruptcy bodies, because they would overvote the creditors, damage the creditors for obtaining benefits in an unauthorized way. That is why it is a good solution and that is why the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will undoubtedly support it. What you should know, Mr. Minister and your associates, is that I especially appeal to Mrs. Matic, as the creator of this law, that she has something that is not systematized here, which is that the connected persons must in no way be buyers of property in bankruptcy proceedings. We have in bankruptcy practice, in business courts situations where husbands, husbands, wives, children, buy property of a creditor, and even buys and a creditor, as a legal person. Is this not a flagrant form of violation and abuse of the right to bankruptcy and damage to the trustees? Can you imagine a creditor being bought from a spouse of a creditor's owner? That's exactly the kind of situation that happens in court practice, and that's what court practice has identified. However, in any case, by reacting to such examples at the same time, we also point out that you have contributed much through transparency, the introduction of transparency in bankruptcy proceedings, simply because we will have the opportunity to spot in the most transparent way the work of the bankruptcy manager, the bankruptcy authorities, for the court I will not even comment on. Not wanting to convince the provisions concerning status, Mr. Minister's choice of bankruptcy director has been discussed, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I would like to make a well-intentioned suggestion. And that is to well consider that the future bankruptcy law does not systematise any single provision on bankruptcy managers, but rather to adopt a completely new law, as a system-based solution to be referred to as the law on bankruptcy managers, because that law will define all that is necessary, starting with obtaining a license for the work of a bankruptcy manager, to the choice of a bankruptcy manager in a bankruptcy procedure. Sanctions, liability for damages, liability for failures, so if we could pass the Law on Public Records, why can't we pass a law on bankruptcy managers? In particular, I would like to apostrophe the role of the Privatisation Agency, Mr. Minister, as a bankruptcy manager who performs business as a creditor through a trustee, and trustees are natural persons who have to meet the requirements prescribed by law in order to be bankrupt managers. What's going on? You have succeeded as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group supports that certain anomalies that have emerged as rules in the work of the Privatisation Agency are gradually being removed. In bankruptcy practice, it happened that the Privatisation Agency pays its creditors in a regular manner, or pays their fees, while at the same time exposes consumers to significantly higher amounts than the amounts paid in the name of the trustees' fees. In this way, there is a reduction in the bankruptcy mass, and by reducing the bankruptcy mass, believe me, they remain deprived of that part of the settlement. It is well, Mr. Minister, which you have recognized, so now this kind of abuse, right in privatisation agencies, is being removed and we strongly support the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against such anomalies. What I think, too, is that they should be affirmed through this discussion of the bankruptcy law, is that they are very precise, very clearly defined certain institutes that will help the courts in the work. In particular, the inability to pay a creditor is clearly defined. Now we don't have to prove it in our actions. The courts don't have to perform an excessive number of evidence. We will affect the efficiency of the work of the courts, and a decision will be made in the courts very soon. However, what besides the other institutes that you have well regulated, such as the distinction between the distinction to the hostage trustee, the well-regulated Institute of International bankruptcy, seems to be worth a special attention to a new institute, which is good, which is a request for correcting the error in the conclusion. What does that mean? In the event that the claim is disputed and it is due to be directed, whether a bankruptcy manager, whether a trustee on a lawsuit for disputed claims, we come up with errors by judges and judges, so the wrong way or the trustee or the wrong way to send the bankruptcy manager. So as not to suffer damage, neither the bankruptcy manager, nor the trustee, have the right to remove that error, to prevent the damage and to seek a request for correction of the error. But what am I afraid of? I'm afraid of privileged judges. Because we haven't prescribed any sanctions for them, so we can't imagine, let alone experience in court practice that the judge doesn't know who he's supposed to refer to. Well, that's unimaginable. In this case, we allow only the judge to remove mistakes, and where is the responsibility? Where's the responsibility for the damages? We don't have that, unfortunately, systematized, and that should be accounted for in some future legal act that will regulate this. In order not to convince all that is contained, I will in my discussion commit myself to something that seems to me to be good to consider the future work of both your ministry and the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. I must commend that agency as the only healthy body, the only healthy core in one system that was destroyed at one point, or at least tried to destroy, where the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Directors showed its strength and protected the bankruptcy managers. I'm speaking plainly for the sake of the citizens. What is it that isn't defined in this law, Mr. Minister? First of all, you see how well you know as well as citizens that in Serbia there is a return of property, i.e. the implementation of the restitution process. We have a huge problem, Mr. Minister. The property that is subject to restitution, which should be returned to citizens from whom it has been seized under the Law on Nationalisation, Rental Buildings and Building Land, is now in bankruptcy, is located in the property of a creditor. This is where bankruptcy proceedings are suspended. We have huge problems, we can't conduct bankruptcy proceedings because of it. That problem has to be solved. Another problem that needs to be solved is why the law does not provide for the authorisation of an appeal for the cancellation of the sale contract in bankruptcy. I just cited an example, Mr. Minister, that husband, wife, son, daughter, are buying from a creditor. Where the law requires that such a contract be annulled which is undoubtedly harmful, flawed, which has its own anomaly that has to be removed. Such a permission to sue, unfortunately, this law did not foresee. I hope that in some future legislative act, because bankruptcy is a variable category, it will adapt both time and circumstances, and especially by accepting standards of economically developed systems. I hope you will also accept this well-intentioned proposal from the SPS parliamentary group. What else isn't covered? It often happens that part of the property that goes into bankruptcy remains unsold, hasn't been sold whole, no matter what part trustees are calmed down. Why not provide for the possibility that part of the asset that has not been sold to the creditors, because the purpose of the bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings is to settle the creditors. Please accept that as well as you can. Furthermore, there are a number of bankruptcy procedures that last for over 20 years. Why? Because it is about bankrupt debtors, whose headquarters is on the AP territory of Kosovo. We and how well we know what these are reasons that make it impossible to sell those assets. We know what ballast it is for the Republic of Serbia compared to the EU, but it is ballast for both bankruptcy and bankruptcy. This is not about business courts, not about judges, but about a degree of tolerance when we talk about bankruptcy criticism and you understand the situation when it comes to AP Kosovo and AP Vojvodina. Finally, when we're talking about bankruptcy, since I'm going to move on to the provisions of the Privatisation Act, I need to draw attention to something that you should have in mind, which is something that's, by the circumstances, been omitted to embrace this law. It's so-called. a consolidated bankruptcy. I have to remind you in some way that there are a large number of bankruptcy situations where we have companies, holding companies, concerts, large systems, group systems, where in the event of bankruptcy, there is an abuse, because bankruptcy is opened over holding, and a deliberate part of that holding company is being saved, deliberately saving society with limited liability. We have to have a system that will regulate that question where the connections of businesses are through the connection through capital, and then it's logical that bankruptcy takes place according to all segments, holding companies, companies. I have to point out a very positive example. The Business Court in Užica just had a pilot procedure that was extremely successful in solving the holding process, by successfully completing bankruptcy proceedings and successfully bringing confidence to an end over the holding process, Vojin Popovic of Novi Pazar. Let this be an example of further work and systematicization of consolidated bankruptcy as a legal institute in bankruptcy proceedings. I hope you will accept these suggestions, the extremely well-intentioned SPS parliamentary groups, because they are responding and entering into the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pass reform laws, and as a party containing the basic principle, social justice, we want to affirm this social justice through these laws as well. When we talk about the Privatisation Act, I don't understand critics who have been so critical today that they haven't thought of any facts that no one can doubt, what has generated all the problems in the economy of the Republic of Serbia? There is no doubt that it had to move towards solving the accumulated problems generated by the 2001 Privatisation Act, and the reminders, the SAA was against the law and will always be against such legal solutions. Why? Because it was in 2001 that the destruction of the economy began, the taking of numerous businesses to a commercial death, with a huge increase in the unemployment rate, sending people to the streets, Bureau records and the National Employment Service without looking to be re-employed. The state is damaged. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is not filled, PIO contributions were not charged. How much is the percentage of successful privatised companies, and how much is the percentage of privatisations that have been broken or cancelled. That disproportion is huge. We can measure by one to ten the percentages of how successful privatized enterprises are, and over 90% or up to 90% are those who have passed scandalously, because privatisations have been broken and cancelled. Why? Because there were no control mechanisms, that privatisation was monitored, that the subjects were privatised to protection. Because no one saw the work, both the Privatisation Agency and the privatisation agency itself, which had to monitor the privatisation process, when it comes to privatisation entities. What's going on? It happens that disputed contracts are being concluded. Investors do not meet contractual obligations, do not invest, do not settle employees' salaries. What, then, is the consequence of such privatisation? Safe economic death of a privatization entity. The most obvious example, Mr. Minister, is the company Magnochrom from the King. How is this company privatized? Just like this scandalous way. The customers concluded the contract, none of the contractual obligations were settled, from the power plant of Magnohrom, everything was taken out of machinery, devices, appliances, technology systems and the rest of the shamlessly empty halls. What is the value of Magnochrom company now? Well, as much as the building value of the drive buzzing is worth, they're empty and they're ruined. How many of us have "magnechroms" in Serbia? As long as you want. That is why we support you as socialists in this bill, because you have recognized these problems and because you are successfully solving them, and therefore you will always have strong support for such a solution to the problem. However, what is somehow unaccounted for, and I would ask you that, in the course of this period, I do not have much time to answer, yes, the fact is that we have recently changed the provision of Article 20g and we have extended the process of implementing restructuring of privatisation entities in restructuring, and on the other hand, we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a decision of the Supreme cassation court to exclude employees from this ban on the enforcement of privatisation entities in restructuring. They have already been able to charge and to settle their claims in the execution procedures, they are a privileged category of executive creditors. What is happening now, given that we are adopting this bill, which we are truly unreservedly supporting, will we respect the Constitutional Court's decision and the decision of the Supreme Cassation Court and the employees still remain in the category of trustees that must be maximumly protected? I hope that your answer to this question will be positive because the MP group of SPS in a million cases pointed to this problem. I thank you once again and demonstrate my firm confidence in the SPS parliamentary group that all three legal acts of the SPS MPs will be irrevocably supported and thus supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5728	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5729	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Vujovicu, Mr. Chairman, we have two laws before the National Assembly which you are normally 31.30 in an emergency procedure, without real public debate, without considering any perspective of the impact of this law, above all on the employment process in Serbia, we urge you to show us, give any measurable representation of the impact of the laws that you propose to increase the employment rate in Serbia. That's what we asked your predecessor, or I don't know what to call him, Mr. Krstic, and I'm asking you now, to give us some number, any number, as much as you estimate that there will be an increase in employment in Serbia based on these laws that you call reform laws by mistake? Since citizens have to understand that, it's not reform laws, it's... (Vladimir Djukanovic throws out of place: Demagogy. We can only demagogue your demagogy. This is the first government of the Republic of Serbia, so the first government to adopt the so-called so-called government on December 30th last year. Radulovic's Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, so that, less than a month later, the first Deputy Prime Minister would decide to return the mandate to the people and ask for support for faster reforms that are not available. Due to the vote's call, Radulovic's proposal was withdrawn to appear on the Ministry of Business site in June 2014 as a second draft of the privatisation law, which has nothing to do with Radulovic's. Then you gave a new draft, a third one, that had nothing to do with the previous one, or the one before it. Then on July 27th, your government adopted that expressly and sent it to the Assembly to tell us something about it, which we're getting material maybe 24 hours before that. Three different legal texts in only 10 months. The economy minister has changed three times in two years, the finance minister three times in two years, the agriculture minister three times in two years, you're giving us the law, three different texts in seven months, and what does that tell us? In our opinion, the Prime Minister's cabinet treats the issue of privatisation as another cheap and one-time political campaign, called the fall-winter, an exclusive collection, once filled with bus rides and songs, and sometimes by fast-moving laws, as in this case, and of course only one who survives will talk about it. The reformers will, in our opinion, take 600 companies into total collapse, and the few people who receive the salary will end up on the street and in front of the soup kitchens if you don't privatise them, first of all. Perhaps because of these solutions that the government is proposing, some mixture of incompetence and bad intentions to end the project of shutting down the Serbian economy, which has been successfully implemented here for two years. We believe that economic policy, which is based on the layoff of workers and the reduction of wages and pensions, cannot be achieved and you will certainly not be able to get Serbia out of the crisis. Do you really think any serious investor will rush into Serbia because you've changed a few members of the Labour Act, of course in a very bad way, privatisation or bankruptcy, and at the same time you've raised all tax rates and in the next six months you intend to raise energy prices, from 30% to 50% and tell me which investors they will be, you don't have to say their names, you can tell their initials, you can give us their nationality, you can tickle our imagination, you can say they're very interested, just give us some projection. Of course not, but that's why we have models, we have empty promises instead of investments, and unfortunately Serbian citizens are increasingly unemployed and unfortunately constantly cutting wages, and here's the announcement of new pay cuts and new pension cuts or cuts, to correct myself. In doing so, the solutions you offer will only lead to mass layoffs, you do not hide it and that the implementation of these laws will lead to loss, about, circuses, as you say, 100,000 jobs. The strategic partnership that you propose through the recapitalisation and establishment of a new legal entity, by definition, is not privatisation, because the state, or social capital remains nominally identical, is not privatised, so it cannot be subject to the Law on Privatisation, but the Law on Economic Society, I think that someone has spoken here from colleagues and that the procedure is already detailed, as you know. For the first time since privatisation is in place in Serbia, meaning since 1989, the possibility of transfer without a fee of capital or property to an undefined strategic investor, as the most drastic example of systemic corruption, has been introduced for the first time since 1989. In this regard, it is not clear on the basis of which criteria the Government makes a decision on what is of strategic importance for the state and who can be a strategic investor, except perhaps some personal relationship, someone likes it so? That's what you were talking about earlier. I don't understand how the strategic partnership contracts are controlled, and the best example is that already called contract with Etihad, how we can even control the fulfillment of contractual obligations when no one knows what it says. We have this example with the Sisu factory, the Priboj and FAP. God knows what it says there, who made the deal. No one can say anything, unfortunately, but well, I'm not going to spoil the idyllic image you're painting for the citizens of Serbia. I think that my colleague also spoke of the fact that even the Minister of Economy had no insight into that contract, I would like you to tell the MPs here if you had any insight into that contract and what is it that you are specifically like an experienced man with Ethicada thinks about that contract, since there was this story of whether it was in your safe or not in the safe? You're saying, I even noticed with a dose of positive energy, how the method of direct contract was thrown out of this draft, from the bill, and you know that you did it because you were told by representatives of the international community. You said it was inadmissible and they told you it was unacceptable to have such a corrupt element in the bill, so when you said it, in my opinion, you should have said it – we threw it out, because it has a strong corrupt element in it, and not to say it – we throw it out, therefore this law is phenomenal. You have to tell us what you threw out? You said it was transferred to other legal basis of the treaty, to explain to the citizens of Serbia. Another legal basis is an interstate agreement with the Emirates that is unique in the history of contract law in Europe, international and private law or public law, which allows for the full status of a white bear for any private investor from the Emirates, who can do whatever he wants, which is contrary to the constitution. That's why you don't have a corrupt element here, because what you're going to do, you have an agreement with the Emirates that makes everything nice and smooth, and you know it's against the law and against the constitution, and trust me, it won't just go away. You know very well, very well, all of you, including the lady from the Agency, what you're involved in. Don't let it be later. We're not the advances. Don't be later. We're not the advances. We've been running. I'm sorry to the SNS. No, I don't. You're all sharing responsibility. In the eyes of Serbian citizens, no offense, I think that's correct, you're advanced, you're not there – we're experts. What kind of experts are you if the Prime Minister does what he wants you to do and you keep your mouth shut at the government session? If Prime Minister Vujovic told me, I would be offended. Can you tell him, Wolfie? I don't think so. I don't think it's correct. But I know you as an honorable man. This isn't the only dangerous paper in the law. For the first time, it mentions the possibility of privatising companies whose founder is local self-government, respected citizens, which is the introduction to privatising local municipal enterprises, abnormally raising prices for local utility services and further collapse and otherwise completely destroyed standards for Serbian citizens. There's even an idea to privatize, to centralize the tax system, completely, and that there are no original incomes at the bar anymore. Why don't you tell the MPs? However, it was not originally your portfolio and I cannot blame you for everything young Minister Krstic intended, but tell the citizens of Serbia until the end of what you want to do. What do we need local self-government for? You have proved that Serbia can also be led by the bus. Good luck. I don't insult anyone. But we don't need local self-government. What do we need it for? Remove everything from them, and there's nothing. Just get them to give up the plaque. What is also dangerous – for the first time the subject of privatisation is also agricultural land, colleagues have talked about it, if it is social, mixed or in business, which, apart from being essentially wrong, is also a violation of the Constitution, as we have already said. For the first time, the possibility of selling assets for a third of the estimated value is allowed. First time. For a third of the value. You've already tried this at Vršački Vineyards, so we made a little noise, so Radulović did a little lifting, so you stopped. But here it is, in law. You'll be selling the company for a third. Why don't you say so? We believe that it is economically unwarranted and completely pointless to sell a company below fair and market price. But now you convince me it's not. You're saying it was bad for Djindjic's privatisation. He didn't pay anything. Serbian citizens are not. And Mr. Vukitch says - now we'll pay only to come. How can you compare yourself to that? Instead of shortening the time limit for privatisation and restructuring, the law further extends until 31 December 2015. Why didn't you implement your action plan from June 2013? You make some plans and then you don't stick to them at all. You said all procedures must be completed by June 2014. That's it now. Nothing's finished. Who's responsible for not respecting an official government act? At least there's one. I have to say, by law, you've provided that a potential buyer in the company's letter of interest, wants to buy a company, lists a model of privatisation, indicative price, investment programme, business plan and number of employees, indefinitely, and all without a tour. So a man sends you, and he doesn't go over there with what he has, and he sees the documentation, well, which serious investor can do it? Here, tell me one. He'll send it all to you. Without seeing it. Without having made an examination of the paperwork. How can he do that? There are many other shortcomings, but, let's say, I'm interested in the following -- why is the Agency controlling the implementation of a privatisation contract that itself concludes? Why don't you just move that activity into the ministry or some other institution? Because it's pointless for the Agency's employees to control themselves. I believe that the new application for a request is another distraction of trustees, especially workers and former workers, who were invited to do so just a month ago. Just like two years ago, and now that same procedure, just under a different name, is being implemented again. You'd better honestly tell these people they're not gonna get a dime from their claims, instead of making fun of them. We will talk more about bankruptcy within the framework of the amendment process itself, we will submit a large number of amendments to both laws. I don't think there's anything new or revolutionary about it. Nothing speeds up, nothing ends. But you have software where you press to choose a bankruptcy manager. But it doesn't say how many times that guy can push. And he's pressuring him until a bankruptcy manager from the SNS gets there. Do you know that? Ask around. Minister, is there any way to disable this? That should be avoided, because there's no clear limit and a man can click as much as he wants. Secondly, you said there would be no more, as you say, "moving, furniture and lapping". That's what you said. I'd like it to be that way, because I was happy at first, knowing you and knowing where you worked. However, I did expect from experts from the World Bank and the third economy minister for two years. So much for a certain business and everything. But you have denied me this law, because it is precisely the Law on Privatisation that enables these complex economic procedures, such as "moving, setting and polishing". It's this law. It's just that he's a little focused, I'd say, in one side, internationally. Now that I know that the attacks on DS on privatisation are about to begin, I'd just like to say a few things. Only one of the 24 privatisations was conducted during the DS authorities. The privatisation is called "Sartid". And no charges have been filed there. I ask a colleague who will now stand up to list a company that we privatise from 2008 to 2012, carried by personal burden of knowing that the Government of Aleksandr Vukic wants to sell out EPS, Telecom, Airport, Lutrija, Parts of "Serbiagas" and "Dunav Insurance". Otherwise, dear citizens, insurance companies have honored you with a 45% increase in compulsory insurance for vehicles, which no one can explain. I'll be back on the subject. In any case, we believe that this is how trustees are resiliently extended, even though the Constitutional Court's ruling on 14 May, which found them unconstitutional earlier provisions, we had Minister Selakovic trying to explain it here. In fact, you bought five months and nothing else. The law now postpones the right of creditors to collect claims for an additional 60 days from the date of the decision on the privatisation model, Article 94. Before that, you leave 45 days, then you have 30 days and you have 30 days. So, 30, plus 30, plus 45, plus 60, that's 165 days or five and a half months of dizziness by tens of thousands of trustees, waiting for the payment of claims, which have support in the Constitutional Court's decision of Serbia and the court in Strasbourg, and since this government's concept is the collapse of all institutions and their independence and the decommissioning of the rule of law, then this is not surprising, it's just a question – what will citizens conclude about the reforms of your government when the next progress reports are written, and what will the international community say? Under the proposed privatisation law, Mr. Minister, privatisation is based on the following principles: creating conditions for the development of the economy, reducing negative fiscal effects, public security and transparency, preventing corruption, creating a selling price according to fair market conditions and creating conditions for social stability. That's what these friends of the majority have already listed to you by thanking the law. None of the six objectives you have declared will be achieved, given that the current economic policy of this government, the disharmony, the political hopelessness that is present in the government itself and the desire to give tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land in Vojvodina to firms from the Arab Emirates. You know this is a big problem, here, just on the case of a strategic partnership between JAT and Etyhad, what the objectives of this law look like. The creation of conditions for the development of the economy, your first goal, and you define the conditions according to the criteria of a company called "Etihad", by subsidising for a number of reasons a foreign company, you place it in a privileged position compared to other carriers and thereby violate the basic constitutional principles and what it says in the Constitution, that Serbia's development rests on the market economy, open and free market. You are declaring the principle of reducing negative fiscal effects, the loss of JAT, which Mr. Mali and Mr. Vukic successfully restructured in 2014, is 73m euros, while in 2012, JAT recorded losses of 36m euros, twice as much as before the arrival of Etihad. Is it true that every citizen in Serbia pays 40m to 50m euros a year in Ethyhada subsidies? Is it true that nothing lives at the airport pays? Is it true that you're arresting the director of the airport for other companies, not this one? Because this one is privileged. Are you aware that this is against the constitution? Are you aware that you cannot give the country in Vojvodina to an Arab investor past the Constitution and the law of this state? Are you aware of what field, figuratively speaking, are you entering? The principle of public and transparency tells the fact that from 29 January to 20 February, the contract has never been published for six months, etc. Disabling corruption in the AIR Serbia Committee is sitting Mr. Dragan Djokovic. Do you know who that is? Mr. Djokovic is an adviser to the fight against corruption in Mr. Vukic's cabinet. There's nothing suspicious about them. How come they don't smell corruption and they're sitting there on the board? (President: Time.) So, there's still a lot of things, and my time is running out in about ten seconds, Mr. Chairman. I have to say about earlier privatisations. Let's all deal with it now, for example. Beopetrolom, which was privatized while an important part of the Agency was led by Mr. Sinisha Mali, and was later the director of Beopetrol. Now let's talk about it, let's say, let's talk about it, and we can talk about other things at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5730	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5731	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, since several times the government of the Republic of Serbia's grudge was expressed because it is being driven by a bus, we are proud to take the bus, instead of expensive, angry cars, the boastful spending of the previous government until 2012. It is not difficult for us to get on the bus, and we have both cheeks and honors to enter city transport and we are not hiding from Serbian citizens in armored cars or anything else. I don't see what's wrong with it, riding a bus. I do not want to deal with the prophecies of the “grandmother Vange” spoken in this congregation, which have been going on since 2012, that there will be cataclysm only when someone else comes to power, who will sell what, who will reduce how much, who will do what. These are very strange interpretations that have not occurred in the past two years, however said. We heard a kind of lecture about taking responsibility. The SNS never ran away from responsibility. It is our responsibility for both the previous and this Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I would like Mr Stefanovic and DS to finally take responsibility for the period until 2012, not to point a finger at the SPS for anything that was not good, so point the finger at Dinkic, but just not the finger on the forehead and think carefully about everything they did until 2012. Does this lecture by Mr Stefanovic mean that DS and Mr Stefanovic are responsible for 400,000 people who have lost their jobs? If that means it's good, even if they're pointing a finger at the forehead. We heard the last 20 minutes of a good literary paper, probably written in "Ces Mekon", probably written where all the privatisations were made by 2012. (President: Time.) I'll finish, if you'll excuse me, with one sentence. I see the ideological wanderings of some parliamentary groups and some parties here, I also see in the statements of the president of these parties, I see that the DS is giving up the European path and the European perspective of Serbia, because the laws that have received support and the EU's consent, as good, life laws, are suddenly not good for the DS that becomes more Serbian, but what the European future wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5732	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5733	Dear Mr. Chairman, I expect a minute more for me. So we're not giving up the European path, but I'm not going into it at all. My questions weren't any literary work. I've asked very specific questions, Minister. I made some comments. I tried to be polite, not to cause that reaction with you. All the privatisations in our time were tender. All the privatisations were controlled, through their adviser in Belgrade, by people from the World Bank where Minister Vujovic had a prominent post, and Mr Sinisa Mali led the commission of the Centre for tender privatisations. So if you're getting up to say that, please, friendly advice, you have to first understand that you're not criticizing me, but you're criticizing the people who are sitting in your government right now. If it was a robbery, and I'm looking for it, past Sartida, for which you can't say, tell me one from 2008 to 2012. You can't tell me. It's not a subject. The theme is this. Don't call us for it. We paid the price twice in the election. You say when you'll take over. We took responsibility. Our citizens were disastrously defeated, and they rewarded you, but they rewarded you for your promises, and they defeated us for our mistakes, because it's very easy not to make mistakes when you're not doing anything. Mr. Granny, think about it. What is certain, in this government is sitting Mrs. Mihajlović, the minister who was the adviser of Mr. Labus, Mr. Vujovic, one of the founders of G17, then you have Ivica Kojic, who runs the cabinet of Mr. Vukic, and was the right hand of Mladjan Dinkic, you have Mr. Siniš Mali, director of the Centre for tender privatisations conducted under the auspices of the World Bank. Here, your man is sitting right here. Please, let's see what's wrong with the law, so let's talk about it. Not every sentence again – in the previous period, in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5734	The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, by the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5735	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not making this assembly a courtroom. Dispute privatisations are handled by judicial and investigative authorities, those who have a job to do. That tossing gloves in the face – go ahead and say so the judges will say. Here, about "Azotara", the judges said. Let's not list the ministers who ended up behind bars and who are in court disputes. Mr Stefanovic, there will be few sessions to list all members of the DS who have wronged the law, but I do not want to assume what the National Assembly does not have the right and should not. You didn't take responsibility. You are now responsible for Sinisha Mali, but not you. Again, that finger, which was supposed to end up on your forehead, ended up in your pocket and in the wrong place, Mr. Stefanovic. We won't talk about the bad things of this law because this law irons all the bad things from the previous law. What was your concept? Why didn't you finish your privatisation? Why do we have 584 firms in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency? Why do we have 161 firms in restructuring? Why do we have an annual cost of nearly 800m euros on these restructuring firms and companies that are not privatised? Is that a concept to create some kind of virtual social peace? Because of the lack of political wisdom, courage, ideas, because of the incompetence you've shown, that's why we have a weight around our necks, around our legs, and you're asking us to run and make world records. We want to take those weights off. Under these laws, reform laws remove weights, create an atmosphere for people to come to Serbia, invest, buy these companies and start living and working normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5736	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5737	I was forced to report by article 107 and article 106. Mr. Chairman of the Privatisation Act was adopted in 2004. So, because of the citizens of Serbia, we have to make that clear. Don't let it get out like that, so it was changed after, but it was brought back then. The second thing, I asked specific questions, and I didn't get an answer on specific questions. If the minister could at any time answer at least a part of these, I'd really appreciate it. I don't want to get into this mud and this rolling thing when it was. So I'm interested in the answers to these questions. I'm interested in the answers, so please, Minister, when I already have the chance, if he gives me the chairman that's five seconds, so this proposal has no provision to allow money laundering control. And this proposal remains uncovered again, and control of the execution of the contract after privatisation. That's what Mrs Jelisaveta Vasilic said, she is a member of the Anti-Corruption Council. You know about that statement she made. I wonder how this control will take place.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5738	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5739	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, Article 107. Rules of Procedure, refer to the way you conduct the session. Namely, you have an unequal approach, Mr. Becic, compared to MPs of position and opposition. You made that clear today by giving the head of the SNS parliamentary group a chance to tell them how many times he wants, and by whatever means he will, and whenever he calls you, you give him your word. I asked for the right to a replica. You did not give me, although I was in Mr Vujovic's discussion and discussion, the truth Mr Vujovic was talking about the subject, I had the opportunity to refer to his presentation. Mr. Babic himself told the lie in his statement, that I said I hadn't read the law. I didn't say I didn't read the law, I said the previous speaker who publicly admitted it. You didn't give me a word of that. On the other hand, you've begun to share the opposition. Mr. Stefanovic mentioned the bus twice, and you didn't warn him, I only mentioned the bus once and you took away my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5740	Mr. Veselinović, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You yourself said that after your presentation, the minister spoke about the subject, there was no reason for me to give you a replica. You know, you have no right by your Rules of Procedure, which is why you tried to say what you wanted to say in your replica. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5741	I point out the violation of Article 107, relating to Parliament's dignity. We have one MP who reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, says who is a member, and then doesn't speak at all about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but puts a political theme on the wallpaper and leads this kind of discussion. It is indeed an insult to this House, because you are trying to mock the mockery of the Rules of Procedure itself. By the way, speaking of which, I simply have to say, about these privatisations, we are not accusing you of being robbers, this has been accused by the European Commission and Verica Barac. They told you that the 24 privatisations they asked to investigate here were muggings. You have to think about it, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5742	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5743	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, although at some point sessions are held and someone can talk about whatever they want, someone else can talk as long as they want. Member of the 107th National Assembly, the National Assembly has its legislative and control role as the most dominant, but the National Assembly certainly has no role to play in fighting Serbia with any other country in this world for days we have been listening to the circulation of opposition MPs, not the whole, but led by the aggregate states of the DS, as they are bothered by the investment from the UAE, as they are disturbed by "Belgrade on Water", as they are bothered by Belgrade being launched, that Serbia is employed, as it bothers them when Arab companies they have, and everyone in this world knows what resources and how much resources, and they have kept quiet and did not bother with the resources of Darka Saric. There was no problem. These were direct investments. As were direct investments when Miskovic sold his company, it was a direct investment. But just to get the respectable, world-class UAE companies to come to Serbia instead of waiting for them on the red carpet and open arms as expected, people who invest, who leave funds here, who create new values, who open jobs, no, from this National Assembly, by the DS of any aggregate state and any part of it, are being sent hate messages, non-welcome messages. You had the right National Assembly to do that? Do you have the right as chairman to listen and tolerate such a thing? Of course you don't. That's why I think the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5744	Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5745	Since Mr Stefanovic asked for a direct answer, I will now briefly answer a few of the things he mentioned in his presentation. I thought we could leave that for later. The first question of the impact of the employment law is one analysis which is written in an explanation which, together with the law, is made available to everyone in the public debate and later on committees this morning and today, which explains the necessity of the adoption of the law, the systemic character of the law and the law on bankruptcy. An economic analysis that I'm guessing isn't clear enough and I accept your suggestion to do a more detailed analysis, I can give you the basic sketches. From the thesis of how much these companies cost today, that they hold about 100,000 employees who do not actually create anything, and count on social aid, wages and other things, imagine that about 100,000 have a missed social product. Now that we've been doing flood assessments, out of one billion 525m euros estimated, total flood effects, half of them are direct damage, and half of them are economic losses because economic resources are out of operation. Imagine how much the sum of 800 million is included in resources that are not used. I accept your suggestion and we'll try to run an analysis as soon as possible and assess how much it works. Indirect effects on Serbia's reputation and that investors don't want to and banks don't want to work in an environment where money disappears into a black hole, in restructure companies, because they don't pay neither utility services nor loans, it makes a bad impression. Many people, 99,000 are angry and expect a solution, positive or negative is also a negative impression. But we'll do that analysis, I agree with you. Secondly, there was a bill last year that was withdrawn from the procedure by automation. Since we started to create from the beginning, so we did all the other things, the assessment was that since this law is a key model, it wasn't called that, it was a privatisation of capital, so it wouldn't respond to the main task, which is to try and privatize, I stress, property in action that includes both physical property and immaterial property. So Galenika, not only the building, the machines, but the knowledge, the drug license, is a way to make these medicines that can be exported to certain markets where Serbia has a privileged approach. This is the sale of assets that are otherwise not possible because liabilities are two and a half times the estimated value of the asset. So this law tries to respond to the real problem of the economy, not to some abstract principles, including the principles of my colleagues from international financial organisations, who have slightly different principles and who are not as burdened by real problems of the economy as we are now in this function. With the other hat, she thinks differently. The new bill was discussed on the working group for 20 days and was put on public hearing 20 days before July 14th. If we hadn't changed the law, I'd feel a lot worse in front of you today, but because we changed the law taking into account suggestions, suggestions, objections from the public debate. Therefore, we received direct suggestions in the public debate on the basis of which we made amendments to the law. I think that's the point of a public debate. So why else would we have a public hearing if we didn't throw out the things people told us? They told us to throw out much more important than all these other things, the financial restructuring that was supposed to be a good measure, but too complicated, too long, too big a fiscal risk, too long a deadline, and we said -- because it exists in other forms of UPPR, etc., don't do it under this law, and that's too complicated, and that's why we threw it out. In a similar way, we adapted all other things in the law based on the remarks we received. A concrete remark on the removal of the methods of direct contract, direct sales, etc. did not come at all between the national organisations. It's not their remark at all. It is an observation of our professional public, even some political parties that are not in parliament, etc. So, we have respected the risks associated with this and in fact opportunised for such a solution does not exist in the law and that is why, on our own responsibility, we have cleared it from the text that we took to the government, without consulting anyone in the government outside the working group and the ministry that was directly in the preparation of this law. So I have to say for a little while, we're not taking 600 companies into the collapse, they've been collapsing for a very long time. This is not the law, as you said, that introduces legal death, this is the law that those who are trying to bring back to life. Quite the opposite in medical comparison. This is a law that tries to find those patients who can survive, to resuscitate, to return to life, not to die. Ladies, we're doing this with companies that are good, so you might as well say it's not like that. I repeat, this is not a political controversy, this is really an economic essence. We have a lot of data for 161 companies. I call upon you all when we publish this law to come and participate in the work of a task force that will go through all businesses and seek out partners. I think your role is to tell our partners on time. Most of these partners already know each other. There are no companies that will first contact someone on August 15th and say, send a proposal. If someone needs additional time to show interest after a preliminary demonstration, then a tender or invitation will be announced, so they will have 30 days to show their preliminary interest, and then the agency will evaluate it within 45 days, and then we will announce a decision to go to tender or to collect offers. She'll have those 30 days plus 45 days, plus another 30 days, she'll have 100 days to prepare. Who in 100 days can't prepare a plan to get some company out of trouble I don't think he's probably a credible investor. Lastly, very important, I think we've given a huge amount of attention to that. Let me read Article 13 which is brand new in the law and all our laws - obtaining opinions and consent. Article 13 says: "Agency", that is, the Privatisation Agency, "before the conclusion of the contract, obtains from the competent Organisation for the Prevention of Money Laundering an opinion on the absence of interference by the buyer, or a strategic investor for the conclusion of the contract. The opinion referred to in Article 1 shall be delivered no later than 15 days from the date of receipt of the request from the Agency.’; We say within two weeks we have to get an opinion. ‘The Agency shall, no later than three days after the conclusion of the contract, provide the competent Organisation for the Prevention of Money Laundering with a written notice of a contract with the buyer and no later than three days after the payment of the purchase price, informs in writing of the payment made. The Agency shall, at the request of the Competent Authority for the prevention of money laundering without delay, make it known, or provide all the documentation available to the competent authority in the procedure for the conclusion of the contract, i.e. in the procedure for the realization of the contract and the procedures provided for in the instructions received by the competent authority.’; There is no stronger formulation to prevent money of unclean origin from appearing in the privatisation process. If you can enhance this text, please enhance the text, and I don't think it's right for you to resent us since we really tried to include it in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5746	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5747	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, in preparation for this session, I have tried to write myself a cut of privatisation in Serbia for the past 14 years. I've been trying and I realize it's pointless. These 14 years of failure and destruction of the Serbian economy better leave history to judge us, and to God we are investigating the branches. History won't give us a positive assessment. On the contrary, they will wonder what would make these people destroy their own country's economy and industry. Now let's see what we can do with what's left, save what can be saved. It's a sick situation that we have a state, private and some undefined property that used to be called social property. To those who are calling for social firms not to be abolished and that the process of corporate restructuring is not interrupted, I must say that the economy knows nothing. These companies can't even borrow money from banks for years, they can't buy or sell property or equipment, which are basic economic categories. I'll give you a specific example. I was almost at the Town Bakery in Krusevec, Branko Perisic, another company in restructuring. They have silos in which the entire Rasinski district can store grain, corn, sunflower, but no one does it for the simple reason that no one can do it, because in case something is wrong, they cannot bring a court case against the grain warehouse because the company "Branko Perisic" is protected in court because it is in the restructuring process. Who dares to work with such a company? They can't sell anything or buy equipment, which is necessary, because equipment is a consumable thing. Now you have these unfortunate 200 employees who come to work every day, they produce something, but they also know they have nothing to hope for, because they watch their company collapse and slowly collapse, and private competition grows. I cite their example, because it's just one out of 160 and some companies that are in restructuring that have nothing to hope for. I vote for this law to end this agony. Let it fail that he cannot live, that he may find the owner, and that which is of strategic interest be taken over by the state. It's important that this process that lasts almost 15 years ends, because it doesn't make any sense that something lasts for 15 years, no matter how good and honest the intentions were at first, I hope. The irony of fate is that today we are together discussing the Law on Privatisation and the Law on bankruptcy. There is no clearer sign of what awaits us than this fact. Well, at least let's get all this dead capital to social firms through bankruptcy, if it can't be otherwise, and get them back into cash flows. The point of bankruptcy is that it must be swift and just. Let's once again confirm here and through this law that leads to bankruptcy. He's being led for the trustees, and then for the workers and eventually for the owners of the company, if there's anything left. It's good to point that out again, because we've forgotten this rule of bankruptcy. I'm disgusted by parading the media of the owners of bankrupt companies who bomb us with their statements, development plans, new ideas. Will someone already tell these people that these companies aren't theirs anymore? That looks a little bit like one of them understands. We of the NS have submitted certain amendments to the Bank's bankruptcy law with only one objective, not to change the essence of your proposal, but only to improve it, at least as we see it. On my way to the Assembly every time I walk through Krunska Street and always look at the window of an office that says "Sartid", a company in bankruptcy. No one remembers that ever since they went bankrupt. I always see some uncles and aunts sitting at tables, looking neither anxious nor hasty. They will welcome a pension by running the Sartida bankruptcy. I mean, I pass through the DS in Kronska, but I don't see any rush in there either, as well as in Sartide, but it has nothing to do with what I'm saying. I apologize to the chairman. Mr. Minister, do you agree that this is more ridiculous than sad -- "Sartid", a bankruptcy company, and even the oldest in this room, have forgotten that there was an "Sartid" company, and in order some people get paid by leading bankruptcy, I don't know on whose behalf or in whose interest. Let me just give you an example of the RAD Construction Company. Anyone who doesn't remember the company is simply when you cross over New Belgrade, on the left, a huge white palace, unfinished, it's the RAD Construction Company. We hear about that bankruptcy, or that bankruptcy only gets in some dynamics when they're arrested by a bankruptcy manager or when they're setting up a new one. That happens relatively often. These are the only moments when we hear something's going on in the bankruptcy of the construction company "Rad". I'm listening to my fellow opposition bitching that 100,000 people are going to be out of a job. It is possible that by reminding you, they will not lose their jobs; they will be left without pay. They've been out of work for the past 14 years. That's the big difference. We're trying to bring these changes into the Privatisation Act and I see it as an extortionary solution, that we don't lie here, that we're trying to save what can be saved. We need to draw a line somewhere and start over. These few hundred companies can't stay in this interspace between state and private property, and it's clear to everyone. That's why I'm asking you all to vote for this bill, because, unfortunately, it's the only thing in this point of privatisation, after 14 years, we can do now. All the other trains have already passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5748	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5749	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have heard a lot of discussions on the Law on Privatisation, on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, as well as that part of the law that implies the amendment and supplementation of registration at the Agency for Economic Registers shows essentially that this is one basis for the political platform of economic reforms with which the SNS, headed by the current prime minister, has come before the citizens of Serbia and has received support for this. If we don't remember the past, we can't even create a future. This is what we inherited, but the result of the controversial privatisations carried out over the past 10 years and a little more, for God's sakes and 12 years, has shown that only eight privatisations of the 24 disputed, which the European Parliament gave as a warrant in June 2011 to be examined, have been completed according to the laws which were then in force. But apparently there is this difference between eight and 24, which were performed in magical ways, or without legal regulation. The result shows that last year, in 2013, damage was found directly to Serbia's budget, amounting to 7.7 billion dinars. As a result, we have 56 people who are deprived of liberty, 11 cases that have been prosecuted, where an investigation has been launched for 93 suspects, three former ministers and the director of one agency. Sixty-six investigations have shown that there are, due to certain malfeasances, were launched in 11 companies, and that in four companies, practically cases were closed without certain grounds. What has been the effects of privatisation over the past 12 years shown by a study practically carried out by the Social and Economic Council in 2011 in November. The study even included Mr. Orbovic and Mr. Rajic, who are in front of the Union of employers and who say that the results of the privatisation in general are disastrous, that the number of people who lost jobs from privatisation until 2005 31.12, because of the broken 346 privatisations, amounted to 137,000, and those who were not privatised lost the job of 117,000 workers who worked in these companies. According to my predecessor, they have long lost their jobs, only now is the question of the fee we call pay, which goes out of the budget permanently in an annual amount of $800m or 750m euros, which we simply give to our participation. The time has come when simply for some things the line has to be underlined and the past has to be told publicly and that the truth that hurts somewhere those who have led the whole privatisation process shows that the capital of 584 companies that have remained unprivatised is completely negative, that the property of these companies is six billion euros, that about 100,000 people who work under quotes, or receive a budget fee for something we can't always call complete work, because there is no creation of a new value. We have around 200m euros of unpaid costs for municipal enterprises, or the budget does not generate these funds. What to do in that case, apart from introducing a certain kind of economic reform, introduce one lex specialis, but now for the first time according to certain models, methods and measures. That was the case before, and some MPs claim it existed before. If there had been before, it probably wouldn't have come to these controversial privatisations. When we say that all the companies that work look good to each other, then we say that those that don't work well have problems because they're every case to themselves. It is precisely this law that wanted to define all accidents in bad business, in major privatisation problems, with these methods, measures and models. In the end, we've heard a lot about whether they're good or not and whether they need to be repaired with even more practice cases. That's what we're gonna do about the law in particular. But what's important is that there's a study that's been done, a comparison of certain economic effects, on the Privatisation Agency's website since 1997, when we talked about the first Law on Personal Transformation, which began then with 1400 companies, certain conclusions and comparisons on 2001, when the first Privatisation Act practically appeared here. When you see these results and these results today which are the ultimate summary of the entire privatisation process in Serbia, then it is no wonder, and I even think it is very little that 24 companies have entered certain disputes that we can call controversial privatisations, because we are not talking about some small businesses that have quickly ended up in bankruptcy through privatisation. But it should be said that it was not by chance a bad principle of privatisation related to bankruptcy, because the state took part in it. She participated in the grant of the Development Fund through taxpayers' money, which, for example, singled out 1.2 billion dinars for Mr. Miskovic's companies, which later went bankrupt. For one Farmacom, they set aside, for example, 731 million dinars, which are now practically bankrupt and have four and a half thousand employees. Now I ask – why did this happen in the period when there were adequate laws? Obviously, this legislative regulation has gone hand in hand to tycoons and that the bankruptcy process has practically been in line with the political establishment that ruled at the time, and it has proved that these legal solutions are practically exceeded, that if you want to consolidate finance, if you want to regulate the system, if you want to end up with social capital, then you have to come up with a proposal for legal solutions that will actually enter into the full reform of business activities. Indeed, it will prove to be good, and it will not take much time, but in a year’s time, practically, this momentum of economic activity will move forward. What is important to say is that the Bank of Serbia has shown in the past that private equity owners have been practically fictitiously opening firms and that even public procurements have been soft for these companies, and that the daughters of companies or other private companies have served only to suck up money, especially if we are talking about public enterprises that have been calling tenders, or public procurements that were then practically very many holes and that show that everything that can go through small procurement has proved to be a result that the degree of corruption in Serbia has reached abnormal figures, that simply no more of the investors wanted to come to Serbia to work with our economy. Privatisation was often the case, the subject, so the synergy of these two laws, were cases where more tycoons were being developed and more and more firms were developing on the bankrupt market, that this became a way of functioning as the economy should operate, and thus Serbia's budget was becoming increasingly poor, the need to take credit grew. These loans have become more expensive and more expensive and we have come to what we have come to, that gross social income has practically become a noose around our necks, that simply public debt has begun to grow and everyone is forgetting that past somewhere. Now we have come, when you have to take certain moves in which you have to show determination and all those who have participated in earlier privatisations and have created in general these legal solutions would now be attacked, but have simply forgotten that responsibility for all decisions and for all legal solutions is not only on those who directly functioned in privatisation agencies, ministries, but also on a political elite that at that time did a certain political majority. What should be said is that these new legal solutions are practically overcome by all the models that have existed so far, that a practical preservation of new jobs is being introduced, stabilising business activities as far as possible, recovery of the economy, as Mr. Minister said. And that through certain models we now get the support of the Fiscal Council, it's not so much a point here, but I think it's very important, because many are calling for the Fiscal Council to have the custom of having the opposite opinion of the promoter, however, it's an institution that has long said that social capital should be stopped. What's good is that, in addition to the Fiscal Council of the European Integration Offices, she supported these proposals, so this proposal also went to the Committee on European Integration. Practically, the document has shown that Serbia is now on a European path and will never give up because simply the changes we are introducing through these legal solutions can no longer be stopped. What is even more important to say is that the bankruptcy law practically introduces greater transparency, it introduces new proposals to prevent abuses that have been evident, introduces the practical removal of certain problems that arise by increasing non-resistance of creditors, so that bankruptcy managers together in co-operation with judges who have conducted the proceedings in the past, were small gods who have served as managers of the entire property but also those creditors that, of course, are important in the reconciliation of these creditors, and then you open up a big space for corruption. So that's why these possibilities don't exist anymore. What's important is, we're doing this to cut costs that will go to bankruptcy managers. The important thing is that the decision will no longer be the discretionary right of the judge, about who will be the bankruptcy manager. It is important to say that the obligations to be published must be transparent within three months through reports published. To limit that small business advance because, there was no possibility for any small company to go bankrupt to open a bankruptcy procedure, because it is not in a situation to pay certain fees that were not able to exceed certain costs. It's now at 50,000 dinar level. So there was no longer any direct choice of bankruptcy managers, and it is important that the trustees' board be in the sense that it can no longer come to this corrupt element where money will be drawn through certain types of loans, even in that fourth level, and that there is an acceleration through a certain reorganisation, to try to get what can be derived from bankruptcy and to become economically sustainable really works on the capital market. Finally, the changes relating to certain problems, when we talk about international bankruptcy, and now we see that, given that many companies operate and have these original orientations, and purchases exist with foreign investors, we have to comply with our regulations with international regulations, of course this is one of the laws, amendments and additions that will comply with that. Apart from these two laws that have proved to be with their solutions, this government has a vision of how to get out of these problems Serbia has been dealing with in the last 13 years. It should be said that since 2008, even in their 65 legislative solutions, other countries have so far resolved in this way, such as the government led by Mr. Vukic. We have shown some courage to deal with those solutions that have been pushed under the carpet for years. What was given by this set of laws, perhaps less talked about, changed and complemented, when registering, when we talk about business entities related to the Agency for Business Registers, it is important to say that the reporting that is at all related to business, for each fiscal year is no longer related to that 28 February 2012, but it is more of a statistical nature than it is related to half of the year, i.e. for June 30th. Why does it matter now? Because in that part you open completely transparently, as far as the reporting itself is concerned, that anyone interested in who wants to work can, in a completely transparent way, go through the Business Registers Agency to open a practical business report to a certain economic operator at all and can even see on that basis if he has not properly seduced his business, such reports will also be transparent. They are obliged until 30 October to be practically united on the APR web page. Why does it matter? Well, because in a completely transparent way there will no longer be intermediaries in any process, we in the process of registering certain companies, neither in the privatisation process nor in the bankruptcy process. Today, when we talk about these legal solutions at all, we should say, or praise the work of this ministry and say that all these proposals are methodologically shown, one precision. So far, all these details, the laws have always had through certain proposals, which you would say, holes that certain economic operators would use very quickly, and then, for that reason, they tried to sort of bypass legal solutions and survive and not pay what they were bound to, and that's the country's tax, or the budgeting, because, as you can see, it was never in an adequate way, and especially when we talk about bankruptcy and payment claims, they were always going at a smaller percentage, than it should exist. This law should be supported, not only because they are reformal, but because it has proved that the profession always favours policy, that from the point of view of the profession, you can also convince ministers who are not in a position to support these laws, so that they support these legal solutions as well, because they are in the interest of the state, that they are never more individuals can overcome the state, so they are called both tycoons or controversial businessmen, that you can never again come into a situation where you simply don't know where capital comes from when it comes to privatisation and that you will never again come into the situation of making certain decisions without having a legal framework. It's a good thing you've shown us in a professional way that, in order to debate this issue at all, you have to read the law, you have to know what legal solutions are. On the other hand, you must not forget that we as a state, it was about somewhere a suggestion of those who do not think like those who state the law, that certain solutions relating to agricultural land in terms of investors, can also be a practical part when we talk about foreign investors, can be part of the property and the subject of purchase and sale have forgotten, that we have committed ourselves to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the EU, that simply the law applies to everything, that the market is open, that only a competitive game wins and that these are European values for which we all advocate. Therefore, in that part of economic activity we cannot make some advantages for certain, and for others, when it comes to certain actions to say – this cannot be done. Agricultural land cannot be considered, and for 16 hectares in New Belgrade, for certain companies that are in the 24 controversial privatisations, this applies to them. So, whether we're talking or not... (President: Time, it's already 20 minutes.) ) All of this will also be the subject of certain discussions on the committee that we will conduct on the law in particular, through a large number of amendments. I don't think the SNS has any reason to be unhappy, and we're gonna back these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5750	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, and for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break until 3:45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5751	Dear People's MPs, since the minister has not arrived yet, I propose that we continue our work, and speak in order to the MPs who wish to speak in the absence of the minister. The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5752	I thank Mr. Chairman, given that we have a lot of work to do, I am as you have suggested that we begin the debate although I have some questions for Mr. Minister, but I expect he will arrive in the meantime. The aim of this Privatisation Act is to speed up remaining privatisations, create conditions for economic development and the preservation of social security in the country and the intention of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to find the right model for all businesses to get out of the current situation. I welcome the government's intention to do so, and the deadline for privatising social capital is set, it is December 2015. My opinion is that for the past 25 years, because I will remind you of the first social capital law that was passed in 1989, it went through a difficult, painful and painful process and this is the first law in several of which was backwards, which provides for the completion of the privatisation process in Serbia. Each of these laws, which I said and the Law on Social Capital of 1989 and the Law on Privatisation of 2001, which, regardless of changing changes and additions, survived to this day, often led to very problematic situations. We, unfortunately, have companies that are 25 years old in the privatisation process and cannot mention one of them at this time, it is a "Shahaovski informer" a.d. from Belgrade, which in the area of foreign trade from the SFRY period was a leader in this area, because it had its own unique product that was number one in the world in the field of issuing socialised literature and thanks to it gained a leadership position. As he was an avant-garde in his work and in everything he proposed, so he went among the first and went into the privatisation process. This privatisation lasts until today, this company is trying somehow to survive on the market and deal with a number of problems. Two basic reasons why they did not have a successful privatisation is the impeccableness of leadership, the leniency of several previous management structures, but also the negligence and carelessness of competent institutions. So, the true paradigm of the longevity of our privatisation process. I cannot mention, on this occasion, the Law on Terms and Procedure of Turning Social Property into Other Property, which in some way after 2000 carried out a forced audit of a large number of privatisations in the early 1990s and which reduced the participation of employees, i.e. small shareholders in the total capital of their enterprises to a negligible percentage. PIK Cačak is one of the few companies privatised under this law, which has managed to fight on the market for many years, restore its business and work successfully today. I can't even mention 4.8 million citizens of Serbia who signed up for free action and the fact that 2.5 million citizens sold NIS shares at prices significantly lower than those at which the company is currently listed on the stock market. All these are the consequences of unsuccessful privatisations and 365 broken contracts and 24 privatisations that must be under trial. We today as a society and as a state suffer the consequences of these failed privatisations that are and how they affect our economy. Why is the privatisation process of social and state capital still not completed in Serbia, the question is, in my opinion, for a deep, serious and impartial analysis both from economic and from political and sociological and historical aspects? But I believe that two important elements have contributed to the total of bad privatisation so far. The first is, the absolute lack of elementary education of the widest layers of the population, and the second, in my opinion, is the inadequacy and lack of the integrity of the institutions. In this session, me and my fellow MPs from the New Serbia parliamentary group and the other MPs certainly receive daily notices from Agrobanka shareholders, who inform us that they will seek their ownership rights in international courts, which is certainly not good for the opportunities in which Serbia is, first of all, attracting foreign investment. Also, all this time in the privatisation process, very often there was a capital of suspicious origin in the game, which mainly originated from our country, but is skillfully camouflaged behind foreign investment funds from exotic destinations, out-of-state credits. That is why, from the present perspective, it is our primary task as the holder of the legislative authority to try to create a quality legal framework that will allow for the final and rapid completion of this painful privatisation process. I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted amendments aimed only at better understanding of this law are more technical. As far as the law on bankruptcy is concerned, I would just like to say that this law provides conditions for improving the business environment, for more effective implementation of bankruptcy procedures and preventing abuse and corruption in this process. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support these bill proposals in the voting day, and we will be actively involved in the discussion of details when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5753	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5754	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for coming back to hear the debates of the MPs. Three laws are in this debate. The first is the Law on registration procedures. We don't have any objections here. It's a compliance with the amendments to the Accounting Act and some other laws, so we'll vote on that law. The second law is the Law on bankruptcy. We don't have any major objections here either. That law is significantly better than before. We have one amendment requesting that Article 2 be deleted, which provides for the legitimacy of the bankruptcy administrators. I think it's an unnecessary militarization of that job. What's the bankruptcy manager going to get, how much more meaningful, fairer and more important if he's got ID? It's a completely pointless thing. He has a solution that puts him in that position, and if it doesn't help him do his job, it will hardly help him. I hope they accept that amendment, and then we'll vote for that law. We have a third law that's no good, and that's the Privatization Act. The two of us will vote against that law. Why is the law wrong? Because the reasons for the adoption of the law begin with the fact that the stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment has been achieved, thus creating conditions for the continuation of privatisation. Where is this macro-economic stability achieved in the environment? In Serbia? Today? Only if macroeconomic stability is a fairy tale, and since it is not a fairy tale, since we all know what it means, there is absolutely no macroeconomic stability in Serbia. To privatise the other 584 companies, of which 161 are in the restitution, there are quite enough attributes in the existing law if it is implemented consistently, if it is implemented in the first, two, three years that first law of 2001 and if it is not implemented in the way it was implemented from 2004 to today. What about those 584 companies? There's 161 in the restitution. Practically, one half is immediately ready for bankruptcy, since it has no business whatsoever. For some 58 of these other 423 companies, it has not been established that they are at the address where they are registered. I'm quoting Director of the APR. So they weren't found. It's a job for forensics, not for economists or some financial experts. They're small businesses with mahogany. A very small number of people are employed there. There aren't hundreds of thousands of people. If we exempt these 161 from the restitution between four hundred and something out of restructuring, there are practically thirty thousand people. I think it's fair for them to be told that their fate will not be corrected by extending their hope, by passing a new law that lasts for a year and a half, and it practically takes half a year for it to start being implemented. If 10 years of this company, these companies haven't found an interested buyer who's willing to enter the privatisation adventure, I think it's unrealistic to expect big miracles. There's a couple of big companies out there. These are "Simpo", "Lasta" and several other companies. They're all just a bunch of companies that are hard to find at addresses where they're registered, or if you find them, you've got nothing to find, except their board. I think the passing of a new law is just a waste of time and that the existing law could already give all these effects. If we're looking for the right reason why a new law is passed, it's an attempt to convalitate some dirty jobs that have been done in the last year, two days. First of all, they are related to some secret jobs, such as "Etihad", such as land in Vojvodina, such as selling hotels on the Kopalnik, such as a chip factory that does not exist, which is an attempt to hide its illegal behavior by passing this law. Mr. Minister, I hope you won't be the one in a series of ministers who realized after six months what was going on behind their backs and that in time you would understand the delusions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5755	Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of National MP Miljana Zindovic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament has resulted, so it proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time on which the MP Miljana Zindovic was elected on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5756	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, I must express a great pleasure here because a shorttime speaker told us about privatisation here and it's very good that he talked because he is today a living witness as privatisation took place at some point, because he was a direct participant in many of these different jobs. For example, I would advise him, and that would be good for the public, to write us a book on how to sell Beopetrol, and then when they get there, because he was just talking about black and dark jobs and I don't know as soon as, so I'm just curious about how he got some funding, and it's said that some bags worked there, that someone got five million euros, etc. Instead of investing these funds in vineyards, he expects subsidies from the state, that the state should give him vineyards and thus be used twice as much. It's good to talk about privatisation today, that the public actually sees the state being robbed, because today he was making one statement here, and that's another in a series of evidence that he never reads the law, and now we're going to talk about the law... (President: Please return to the law. )......................................................................................................... Because he said someone wanted to privatise this rest of the company with direct contracts. He specifically meant Prime Minister Vukic. To inform Mr. Zivkovic, direct contracts have been kicked out of this law. There are no direct contracts, and he's used to auto-projecting himself to doing just that. We have a situation where someone today gives us moral lessons about how privatisation took place here. By the way, for Beopetrol, I do not accuse him, but he is accused by a member of the tender commission, who attended the sale of Beopetrol. I think the man's name is Ratko Stojanovic and he made a statement to the newspaper. When you talk about privatization, remember the period when you passed laws that allowed the company to initiate an independent privatisation process, through prospectuses, by putting together a prospectus, and then initiating its own sale. Translated in Serbian, you bring in one of your directors, who's in charge of getting the company crippled, and then he puts together a prospectus and gives it to the Privatisation Agency, and then the privatisation of the company starts. That's how we got as much of the affair as you want, and otherwise for all these affairs, I repeat again, we're not accusing you, that's what the European Commission accused you of, because she said that 24 privatisations were controversial, and that's why they were being resolved, even Verica Barac wrote about it. Why are we talking about all this? My people, today we are in a position to save what can be saved. I agree with a colleague who spoke, as well as with you distinguished ministers, that this was somehow extorted. If happiness had been passed in 2001, maybe the state would have protected itself, maybe it wouldn't have sold out our assets like this, maybe companies wouldn't have been ruined like this, like they did. Today it is, save your head, give what you give. You're right when you say you can't treat anything with surgery. The surgeon's performing surgery. Are we going to survive? I don't know. We're in a situation like this to treat something, and if we can heal ourselves, that's a big question, because we're completely devastated, destroyed, ruined. I have some things to say about the Privatization Act, especially the control of privatisation. I have to admit, Mr. Secretary, I don't have that much trust in the Privatisation Agency, and not in this Department to prevent money laundering. These are institutions that should also be transparent, to be decorated with some honesty. But in practice so far, I have to admit, it wasn't like that. People are scared. You know, who was bitten by the snakes by that lizard and the lizard. People who do that there, and I hope now they work far more honestly, they're afraid that they'll do that kind of surveillance. I have to admit, the government has taken much more control here than it has ever been before, and over the Agency itself and over what the Money Laundering Prevention Authority is going to do. I must commend you for some other things, regarding the direct contract. Maybe it's a faster method to sell the company. However, we have witnessed that in this country there is obviously not enough awareness of what it means to have state property and what it means to enter into a strategic partnership or try to sell something without it being for the benefit of the state. Unfortunately, these direct contracts have always ended very harmfully for workers and very harmful for the country. Here it was a source of corruption. I think it's a good thing it wasn't introduced into the law and that something like that was left out. These are better methods for privatization. It may slow it down a bit, but I hope the people who work in these enterprises that are in restructuring... Otherwise, when I talk about these companies, one MP said in the first part of the session – since 2008 we have not privatised anything. That's right. No, because they kept companies in restructuring, they fed them to their party personnel. That's right. They weren't interested, they weren't interested in trying to privatize some company and start the business. No, but they kept these companies on the infusion, they spent people's money, they spent their budgets, they hired party personnel, and when the state collapsed, when there was bankruptcy, they remembered they were talking about how the workers would lose their jobs. The job, as someone has already said, has been lost since they entered the restructuring process, and now they're going to lose their wages, because nowhere in the white world is going to be paid unhappily. You can't do nothing without getting paid. It's something that's normal. You know, when someone was only taking care of himself to keep himself in power, then he absolutely resorted to such a method and let the state budget be as burdened as possible and that as many states as possible be ruined. I'll talk about a lot of details and how to talk about it in the second law when it comes to amendments. I need to look into the bankruptcy law. A lot of good things are being introduced now, but we've had so many problems with that bankruptcy, and I'm afraid of whoever's going to control that kind of people who are bankrupt managers. It is sad that most citizens think, honor of exceptions, were among the bankruptcy managers of honest and honest people, but because of their activity many of them are more considered, I will use that term to gangsters than they were bankruptcy managers. If someone was destroying, deliberately destroying these companies, because there was a bankruptcy manager deliberately destroying the company, and then he's taking part in the purchase of the company, his locals, his entire assets with some friends or consortium, not to mention how they got jobs. It's a good thing there's finally a change in the selection of bankruptcy managers. I urge you to bring in that sublegal act as soon as possible, so that it can be regulated as soon as possible. We have now had an incredible situation that what should be an exception has become a practice, and the practice was that the judge deliberately chooses a bankruptcy manager and then has, say, 20, 30 items, and someone doesn't have one because he didn't agree to participate in some dirty actions that took place. A bankruptcy manager should be an honest job, we should be proud of those people who are bankruptcy managers, that they themselves have a great enough awareness that they have to do something that's for the benefit of the state, for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of those people who are employed there. Unfortunately, we had examples where bankruptcy managers used their position to destroy a company, and later to participate in privatisation themselves. I welcome what has been changed and because now the selection of bankruptcy managers will depend on these algorithms, or anything that happens in a commercial court, i.e. from this software. It's not a software where you can click 100 times, so you can choose some bankruptcy manager that you like, but it's a software where you can click once, where you'll get the name of a bankruptcy manager to run a bankruptcy in a particular company. I have to welcome the transparency involved in the work of bankruptcy managers, because they will be obliged to submit a written report to the bankruptcy court, but they will have to go to the company, where the bankruptcy managers are, to find themselves on the website, so that every one of their reports will be able to see and to be familiar with what the bankruptcy manager is doing, so that it has opportunities for certain occult actions and how they are reduced. In any case, these are two laws that will save our economy and that won't allow anyone to take five million euros and allow some pumpers to have locations wherever they think they are and to run such occult activities, as did someone who was our former prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5757	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the honored guests, I believe that there must be some order in the work of this National Assembly, and I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. 106, 107 and 109. I believe that the chairman of the National Assembly has not adequately responded to the disturbance of the order he has implemented and done by Mr Djukanovic, who is also a national MP. I'll explain my position. Article 106 states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr Djukanovic spoke about everything in the first three minutes of his speech, except for the content of three draft laws that we have on the agenda. He talked about auto projections, things like that, but it's not about what's on the agenda. The 107th says – a speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. At the meeting of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to use offensive expressions. Until the prosecutor says that there is a suspicion that someone has robbed and until the court finds it irrefutable, no MP and no one should say that he has robbed anything. The MP assumes the role of prosecutor, judge and violates the 107th Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Finally, in violation of Article 109, Mr. Arsenic, Mr. Chairman, you had an obligation when this was found to first warn Mr. Djukanovic not to stick to points 106 and 107, and when you noticed that he continued to violate and disrupt the order of work of our Assembly, to give him a warning measure based on Article 109. Some MPs here have been punished with nearly 8,000 dinars for asking the chairman a question – yes, and in such cases we have no warning, no warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5759	I must say, you're right, I ask all MPs to stick to the agenda. I tried to point out to Mr. Djukanovic that in the first part, it means speaking about the first part of his exposure, that he is past the topic. He didn't hear me, let's say, given the heat of the speech, I've been a little tolerated, but it's your right to vote in the day if you want us to make that clear. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5760	I want to make a statement, but since you already said I was right, I expect all the MPs present here today in the voting day to vote that the injured Rules of Procedure have been.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5761	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament must respect me so much that I can complete communication with the MP I speak to. I'm not alluding to anyone's decision, it's my right, I won't be so stubborn as to deny what's true. And I'm willing to accept the mistake of asking you to look at me like that. I have no right to talk to anyone, and I think you understand me enough. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5762	Mr. Chairman, 32, 27 and 107 members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's bad, Mr. Chairman, when a man has double arches, when he has double standards, it's even worse when those double standards are being promoted. Someone here told Mr Djukanovic that he was humiliating the reputation of the National Assembly, that he did not talk about the laws, defending him who distinguishes the restructuring process from the restitution process. Then who's in the topic, Mr. Chairman? Who are we preparing for the National Assembly? Someone who can't remember two concepts and has the right to speak and hold moral sermons both for you and for us. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, when I was talking about double standards and double arches, someone hurt that Mr. Djukanovic was presenting information that is a public secret in our society, which is part of some proceedings under Serbia's judicial system. And on the other hand, someone can talk about Etihad, can talk about the country in Vojvodina, can talk about "Belgrade on Water" in an extremely destructive way. Or we'll have the same standards and not be promoted on one side when it's appropriate to use things that are ugly and that things like that get promoted and things that are not true. Please have the same standards for all, as I will ask the MPs before they say they are well prepared. However, more and more have shown here that it does not hurt Mr Djukanovic's word, a fine of eight thousand dinars. The price of grapes, eight thousand dinars is a lot right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5763	I don't think we're gonna get anywhere with this kind of speech. I ask you to be patient, to respect each other. Unfortunately, I have to admit, here in front of you all, I'm telling you that you're using the branch office to do a replica. I can take it in part as a style of work to say so, but in all that, I'm asking you to choose your words. Whether someone was preparing or not, that's his problem, at least it's yours. Whoever has not prepared this people has heard it, and whoever has prepared it has also heard it. Would you like to make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5764	I'm advocating a violation of article 109 of the notice to a MP who approached a pay phone without the permission of the National Assembly president. In the second report, an esteemed colleague didn't get your permission at all, and he started talking and misusing the pay phone. I really don't understand why he's so hot and so impatient. Obviously the truth hurts a lot, and I really apologize to him. By the way, I didn't take the D.A.'s office. The D.A.'s role was taken by the people, and that's why he put you where he put you with that percentage of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5765	I beg you all again. I don't see that this has been advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. No one came near the pay phone. Please, let's get serious. Mr. Djukanovic and I are asking if you'd like to make a statement? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5766	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, honored guests, I would like to apologize to you in particular for attending such a debate. My intention in the previous address was, and now I call on Article 103 only to point out that in this house, there should be one order in this Serbian Parliament so that we can discuss with the proposals of laws coming from the Serbian government in an appropriate way. The two of us have prepared for discussion, and now we have had a situation for Mr Babic to appear on the basis of Articles 27, 32 and 107, and instead of explaining what connection these members have to his speech, he is replicating to Mr Zivkovic. For example, Article 27 says -- the president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, presides over them and performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. The Honorable Chairman, in no way could you harm Article 27, nor did Mr Babic succeed, nor did he try to explain it. I now advertise a new violation of Rules of Procedure, as Mr Babic appeared on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, replicated Mr Zivkovic instead of explaining how you injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You, Mr. Babic or Mr. Djukanovic, when he appeared, and on the same basis, did not use the right to speak, you did not warn, and then warned that they should not violate the Rules of Procedure, but that we should all focus together and correct these drafts of the law. I would like to remind you that Mr. Zivkovic has been very well-intentioned to suggest to the government that we agree on the amendment of Article 2 and that the government has one broad agreement on a good bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5767	Thank you. You know very well that I always use the institution of caution in extreme need. It's the easiest thing for me to do, but given everything in mind, I'm counting on your cooperation and I'm tolerated to certain limits. You were also present and you heard that in my explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I pointed to that. I therefore believe that this is how I have affected further the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as anyone's gonna stick to it, it's the thing of every single person right now, I really can't do anything about it, except, in the end, to apply the penalty measures. I think criminal measures really need to be applied in extreme need. We are here, however, people of authority, knowledge, calling and I believe that, my appeal, you will respect and understand me and allow me to lead this congregation with dignity. Thank you very much. The replica has Zoran Zivkovic, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5768	Thank you. It's completely irrelevant what the predecessors said, but for the sake of the public, let me say, since it's been told a lot of lies. I'm mentioned personally, lies have been made regarding, say, one example of the privatisation of "Lukoil". This privatisation, as well as all the privatisations made from January 2002 to February 2004, I am proud and ready, no matter what the Prime Minister or Government participates in any privatisation, that for all of this I bear responsibility, ethical, criminal and whatever you want, and there is nothing, especially for privatisations such as ‘Lukoil’, led by your current perjanica, Sinisha Mali, and then, after hearing today, I did not check it out, and worked in that ‘Lukoil’. It may be a conflict of interest, but it happened after 2004 when I couldn't influence it. The privatisation process "Lukoila" in the tender was completely clean. I don't know if there's any investigation going on about me, and I should know if it's being run, if it's not being conducted, it's not going to be conducted. As for the case, check with your coalition partners. It's about another story, and what you misread, which is that I mentioned to Wolfie, I didn't. If you want me to mention it, of course I doubt his business of “Ethyhad, ” the country, and I don’t know what with our eternal friends of the Arabs, without any negative relationship to them. I think I'm a man who doesn't need to prove his patriotism, but not his tolerance. Finally, I'm saying this for the public, and it's totally irrelevant what some lottery girl thinks about yesterday who lost a director or what a banish green man who was selling graves thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5769	Thank you. By the rules of procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5770	Member 107, Mr. Chairman. If someone says that it is completely irrelevant what the previous speakers have said and if they think of their other party member of the two, then it is fine, but if they think of SNS MPs they must know that the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group here became half of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with 50% support. The demeaning is the National Assembly when criticism comes from one who could solve privatisation in Serbia, who could put an end to that privatisation, which could, not, not introduce firms into restructuring and be the progenitor of restructuring, please, hold moral sermons by those who could have ruined everything in this country, who left people without a job, without a future, without perspective, who have made public debt as it is now to salt their brains and hold moral sermons. With what right? Do you run a session or do others lead you? How will there be a debate here? Will someone have the right to speak and speak of anything they want without looking at themselves in the mirror?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5771	Mr. Granny, please, I'm really not gonna tolerate it anymore. You can't advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can't talk about not getting along with the other speaker's exposure. Please don't do that anymore. I understand your need to expose it, to state your disagreement, but don't put in me what's not in the Rules of Procedure, please. Djukanovic, on what grounds? Don't, please, we're done. I won't allow it anymore. That's enough. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenic, respected guests from the Serbian government and various bodies dealing with these issues that we are discussing today in the context of a joint principled search. I would like to explain and explain our position in relation to the proposals that came from the Serbian government. I would ask you if possible after this debate we had for special attention, we have carefully prepared for the analysis of the contents of these draft laws and we believe that we deserve a serious comment on your part. The new party, the two MPs of the NS, will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. We have noted that the proposal provides for harmonisation of the norms of different laws, a certain type of harmonisation. I don't think there's any dilemma for anyone who's a reasonable man that needs to be accepted. Therefore, we vote in favour of this bill. When we talk about the Amendments and Supplements Act, we give conditional support to this bill, i.e. the Proposer, and I would like to explain it, so let me see if we can agree on you changing something a little bit in the draft law, and then we vote on this bill afterwards. The MPs of the NS will support this bill if you accept our amendment that we submitted this morning to Article 2. We demand that Article 2 be deleted from this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Bulgaria. We believe that support for the proposed amendments to the existing law is needed right now, today in Serbia, because the largest number of changes are on the trail of establishing an effective bankruptcy system as a necessary element of the market economy. We need to be focused on the market economy, on creating conditions for it to become functional. However, it is necessary in our court to delete Article 2 which provides, as Zoran Zivkovic said earlier when he spoke, but perhaps some did not listen to what was said, which provides for the introduction of legislation for bankruptcy managers. We're asking why the ID? We consider the following, the abuses that these members might be mutilated, so we consider that there is a possibility of some abuse, we consider sufficient reason, therefore this possibility of abuse itself, to cancel our support for the law as a whole. Please once again, if you have time just to consider whether it is in the general interest to delete Article 2 and to adopt the bill as it is, without Article 2. I believe that the majority in this assembly, however large, should always try to ensure a wider consensus on the proposals coming from the government. We of the NS have so far offered many better solutions in my court, none of them adopted. Here's a chance for the government to accept this amendment and we have agreement on two draft laws that are here. The third thing, the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, will not vote for the proposed privatisation law and we will invest all our energy, and I think it is noted that we have it, in bringing down this legislative proposal here in the Serbian Parliament. I'd use these minutes and some time just to explain why. This bill makes up 95 members, and we have submitted 95 amendments to make this bill literally analyze and explain in the debate on details why we believe it was wrong at this point to adopt a completely new law on privatisation. Our idea was to change the existing and in this proposal that you sent, we notice Article 6. regarding the obligation and the time limit for the implementation of the privatisation. It says right here, in attitude one. – privatisation is mandatory for social capital privatisation entities, there is no dilemma, we already know that, but in position 2 says – the social capital of privatisation entities must be privatised no later than 31 December 2015. We felt it was necessary to bring this into change to the existing law and to use the instruments that we have in the existing law and that the privatisation process finally ends by the end of 2015. We believe that it was a waste of time, so much time, resources and strength to waste needlessly on the adoption of a whole new proposal for a law on privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5773	Mr. Djukanovic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) When was the breach of the Rules of Procedure done? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: You did not give me the replica. Now I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You owe me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, you can't. Mr. Djukanovic, read the Rules of Procedure. You asked for a replica, don't play with me, I didn't give you a replica, and then you use an automatic infringement institution of the Rules of Procedure. I gave my word to another MP and now you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5774	Mr. Chairman, you've just injured Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which says the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. So you were obliged to give your colleague Djukanovic the word. One more thing, I highly appreciate Mr. Zivkovic's friend trying to fix what's incorrigible... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5775	Please, you can't, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't replicate it now. I don't see any reason why you want to fight with me. I really don't see a reason, unless you want to make a circus here. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: I see reasons and advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) I explained to you, Mr. Djukanovic, why I did not give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You, let's be gentle, very gentle... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Are you aware of what you are doing? It's my right. Please don't throw it away. You're trying to play the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not giving it up. So you can't. Please sit down. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5776	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the draft laws that are on the agenda of this extraordinary session are a step further towards the progress of the government's prime minister, Alexander Vukic. I will refer to the proposal for a law on privatisation which is a lex specialis compared to other laws. The minister and some of my colleagues have already said that we have 584 social enterprises and 161 enterprises in restructuring to which this law will apply. This law creates a favourable business environment for business, for a healthy basis for the Serbian economy, because we have had in the last 10 years during the former regime of catastrophic privatisations that have now come toll. How much money does the state of Serbia give each year for companies that do not make revenues because of all the controversial privatisations we have, which we can call – how has Serbia been robbed? On what principle were privatisations made? Companies were bought with suspicious money, bankruptcy was falsified to make trustees, and then the same privatisations were annulled. Companies are purchased by various phantom companies based in Cyprus or various exotic destinations. We had an example of "Yugormedia" from Zrenjanin, which was purchased by a company that was registered in Cyprus, whose owner is now on Interpol's warrant. Or the purchase of the "Veterinary Institute", which was purchased in a tender by the consortium "Zekstra", which did not exist at the time. No one in the government at the time tried to examine the origins of the money used to buy these companies, or the people who bought the same companies. Now that the bench is unwinding, there is evidence that some former ministers participated in the disputed privatisations. It's just amazing that no one in the former government wanted to deal with the system of privatisation. One company is purchased, the company's assets are pledged for the purpose of taking credit, the bank's money is taken and another company bought and so on in a circle. No one's asking what's wrong with the workers and what's wrong with that company. It's a typical example of money laundering. I don't understand why the former regime passed a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in time, so that they know the origin of money bought by businesses in Serbia. During 2008, Saric washed more than 20m euros by buying companies in Serbia, and now the former regime is in the way of Etyhad or the purchase of land in Vojvodina. When Saric bought land in Vojvodina, no one asked where the money came from. I will also give you an example of the company from Novi Sad "Dunav group of aggregates", which bought the newly-sed firm "Hero Pinki". In what way? By taking a loan without security, behold a miracle from the Vojvodina Development Bank. By 2010, the company "Hero Pinki" carried 1.4 million tons of gravel, 1.2 million tons of sand, and after buying from Mr. Borovica 10 times less, so that the company would be blocked due to unpaid earnings in 2012. The company's workers threatened several times with the Danube blockade, strikes, and current mayor Milos Vukevic met with them and begged them not to block the Danube waterway. He tried to solve the problems created by the former regime with his businesses. To make things worse, instead of the former government preventing this kind of privatisation of the company, they continued to work with Mr. Borovic, whom they had given to work in the town of Novi Sad Bulevar Europe. They publicly paid him money, 600 million dinars, of which about 130 million were spent, and the money left behind is not known where he ended up, so the contract was broken. The former regime had no will to pass a new law on privatisation, to comply with EU regulations, and above all to take care of workers of companies sold in the privatisation process in a suspicious manner and suspicious faces. The adoption of this bill will change the practice of having failed privatisations, from which many politicians have come out full pockets, and workers have not received salaries. Whoever is open against this law has been destroying Serbia's economy for 12 years, and has been destroying Vojvodina's economy for 14 years, and I hope it won't be long. All those against this law are against workers, jobs and against finding a strategic partner for firms in restructuring. This government makes it clear by submitting such a bill that it is fighting for every company, for every employee, for every company. This law will speed up and make it a transparent privatisation process and will lead to successful privatisations, and the SNS will support this one in the voting day, as well as other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5777	Thank you. Olga Batic isn't here. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5778	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Privatisation Agency, the Agency for Business Registers and the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments, must first of all express the view that the SDPS supports both the logic and the government's strategy and the prime minister himself that Serbia must speed up. In any case, after the adoption of the Labour Act, which represents a kind of waterhouse in our economic and economic life, the adoption of the Privatisation and bankruptcy Act is something that will certainly not employ people, not attract foreign and domestic investors by nature, but contribute to what our country has been seeking for 25 years, which is to become a market economy in full capacity and in full terms of that word. Given the information that my colleagues had previously mentioned, which was spoken of by the Minister and colleagues this morning on the Committee on Business, that the agency's portfolio is over 500 companies, that we have companies in restructuring that are over 150, it says in favour of still having social property, although it is not in line with the Constitution and laws and of course it negatively affects everything we need to attract as many investors as possible and that we could raise our level of lead to the level of developed countries of Europe and the world. What is the desire of this government, in any case, and what I think needs to be done and what is simply defined in this process, is that we have to go dynamically into reform and that what we do, when it comes to legislative regulation, we will do it by the end of this year. Anything else, as the minister said, will do the implementation and will do what I hope we will do during this mandate and the government itself, and the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, to meet those objectives that have been defined, and the most important objectives are to develop our market economy and to hire as many people as possible, to deal with the biggest problem. That's what the Social Democratic Party always puts into its first plan, which is the problem of the unemployment of our citizens, 25% of the unemployed only through raising the level of entrepreneurship, only through new investments, only through innovation, through new ideas, through investments in education, through dynamic privatisation and by putting on the feet of those companies that are now in some, how can I say, very strange aggregate state. The colleagues talked about it, people work, go to work not receiving salaries, have no market, are not competitive and this law through new models, and here we focus on strategic partnerships that are possible, on potential "joint Vencher" arrangements between foreign investors. It is possible to reach the level of knowledge now or knowledge and the overwhelming effect of these investments which, for the greatest and most important purpose, have new employment. A colleague, Djordje Stojsic, from the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, spoke in his speech this morning about the value paper market. I can't help but mention that the Commission's revenue for tariff charters and transactions in 2013 was only five hundred thousand euros. We all know that through borrowing through issuing and broadcasting securities of value, it is primarily in developed countries one of the better ways for private companies to come, and why not public and state-owned enterprises to fresh capital, rather than commercial banks whose loans are expensive. Through this law, it will also be possible through the purchase of shares, and through the purchase of shares, to make that number of transactions as large as possible and that what is very important for the economy of a country to work, to work the market for securities of value. I can't help but look back at what's been going on for the past 15 years. The analyses show that over 70 billion euros entered our country in the privatisation process, through various forms of investment especially foreign direct investment, through the write-off of debts to our country by the Paris and London Club. The figure alone is about four and a half billion euros. It happened to us in the past until 2012, what's called in the economy, it's an exotic theory, it's a theory of disaster. Usually those economies and those economies that have a low base, which have a fall in drastic economic growth, we had it in that period under sanctions and in the 1990s. Usually, when they start reforming themselves, they can come to a great economic growth. What's most important for one government and one state is that what they have from funds to accumulate from investment at least 15%, which would lead to our gross domestic product today after 14 years being twice as big as it is now, and that's about 30 billion euros somewhere. Can you imagine the potentials and what our country would be if our GDP were 60 billion, if the money we've been through, and I can say freely, not encouraging economic activity, not encouraging entrepreneurship, because that wasn't the goal when we cut it off, put it into the budget, put it into consumption, we don't have anything from it, and now we're struggling with about 20% of the budget with a fiscal deficit to place it in government and capital investments so we can get to jobs. Of course, every school is paid. We paid this one dearly, but what is important and we keep saying is that there is political will, that the whole public, professional, political, agreeing that reforms must be dynamic, that they must be dynamically implemented, because without that we will not be able to reach the level of any economic growth, let alone the one we need, which is basically about 5% on an annual scale. What should come next, and I hope it is already in September of the month, and what is irrefutable and parallel should be done, which is not about foreign investment, but about investment, because it will finally equalise both foreign and domestic investors where we will get, where we will attract those best investors. Those who produce, those who export, because without export, without incentives to invest in export arrangements, our country cannot expect any economic and economic growth. That's why the law will find one position that means that we will attract, that we will try to attract companies from the 500 best companies, but that respects the competition, which respects the workers' rights and the entire set and body of labour rights that we need here, and which I hope these changes and additions to the Labour Act that will guarantee in this sense, in that sense, that new employment will be facilitated, that our labour market will be more flexible and that we will not have 90, 80, or 50,000 people going to work, and they will have no income. That subsidising, which is, I can say freely, the cancer of every economy will cost us 700, 800 million dollars a year, and the fiscal deficit per projection will be about a billion and 300 million. So we're in a boat that has a lot of holes, but where it's possible to do, do, with one good, fast and quality action, with a strategic plan, with strategic goals, knowing what we need to do, and as far as we need to get that goal, we can definitely meet. What I would suggest to a resorient minister and, of course, as a Social Democrats, I can't talk about this problem, and I can't talk about people and 90 thousand workers just as a number and just upgrade it to that number of 700,000 people who don't already work here, and that's that we're already analyzing and bringing in a clear requalification plan, prequalifications, possible application of Austria's, German experience of passing labour foundation laws where these people who are potentially going to lose their jobs will be overqualified, qualified. Because, of course, they don't care about severances, but what matters most to them right now, in the 21st century, is knowledge. The state must offer them knowledge. The state has to offer them an ambience so they can learn. It must offer them a plan in which direction and in which sectors the state will develop and according to their own investments in accordance with the market principles and the market economy that will operate here. Of course, the minister also spoke of a new Law on Public Enterprises. It's very important that we corporate public enterprises. I also talked to a colleague on the board this morning, the director of the Privatisation Agency about the problem, and I would suggest that the minister be thought about and that those public, those state-owned enterprises that we showed we couldn't lead, why don't we give someone to run. Let's see if anyone can do that. Not to buy it, not to privatize it, let it manage, let it manage the commission, for a percentage, so then when we get conditions, when we come from 6% of highly educated personnel to 15% or 20%, when we quantitatively and qualitatively enhance both the level and the functional, and formal education, we can take over this business management business without talking very much about the need to manage our property effectively. I'll remind you that, here, I'm finishing the Honorable Chairman, I don't have time to talk about this yet. Of course, the SDPS and its MPs will support these laws in the voting day, with a request that you accept our humble suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5779	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The word has the People's MP Milan Korac. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Georgea Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5780	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, we passed two important laws 10 days ago. It's the Labour Act and the Pensions Act. Today we are adopting two of the same important system laws. It's the Privatisation Act and the Banking Act. I think that this law, compared to earlier law, is far more flexible because resolving the issue of privatisation procedures and procedures, which was the lack of an earlier law, so that the privatisation was carried out as one liked it in time and there were no provisions that specified it. This Privatisation Act in Article 5 speaks of what is the subject of privatisation. At the point of 1st privatisation - performs joint, i.e. public capital or property and businesses and other legal entities, including public enterprises. So this is where it's supposed to be privatization of municipal public enterprises. So far, these companies have not been privatized. I think it will certainly improve the business of certain utility companies, in my opinion which should not be privatised, because I think something must remain as a public enterprise owned by a state, or local self-government, it's a matter of plumbing. Water will have an ever-increasing significance in the future. We are already in conflict today that certain municipalities, although they are setting up these water companies, cannot solve this problem because it must be regionally solved, given that there are no conditions to obtain drinking water, so that these companies should not be privatised under any conditions. The second thing, the minister stressed, is that individuals who have certain powers of law enforcement must accept greater responsibility for what they do, but the law may be perfectly passed and misused both by the individual who implements it can also be abused by the state. I'd say only one example that's so eclectic that I have to point it out. In the old law and in this law, the object of an action without compensation passed on to workers and former workers who are pensioners can be worth up to 30% and 200 euros each year. I would now set an example in the NIS, Serbia's largest company, which had the largest capital company, it came down to the fact that the law that Dinkic implemented, the right of citizens to action, and each to receive 1000 euros, and it received 20 or 30 euros, since there was no capital, and it passed in that law one member where it said that a public company of NIS could be privatised based on an estimate of the value of the property. At the time of the negotiations on the sale of NIS to Russia, and he knew it very well, he found one side of the company that gave an estimate, the value of that property that is 2 billion and 200m euros. Then, on that basis, he determined that only 4% of the value of the property belonged to employees and pensioners. Since there was no such property, it was found in the contract based on accounting and other values, that it is 930m euros. Then that property can't settle 4% of the value. He simply once used the machine to implement that workers could not get more than 70 euros. It's purely abuse by the state towards employees. In a contract that took place after half a year, workers who were based on a contract concluded between our country and Russia had the right to 700 euros for each year's internship. This is an abuse and an abuse committed by individuals, as the minister said, must be a responsibility great to those powers that individual persons have. Another thing I would point out is that this law says in Article 17 that from the sale of this property, the funds are being paid into the budget of the Republic, i.e. local self-government. I don't think that's a good solution. I've given this article an amendment to what I'm going to talk about when it comes to it. I think that these privatisation funds should be used for investment to create new jobs, not as is generally said here, they will be used on the basis of the programme. What program? Maybe there's a highway, there's no job at all? Here, this member would have to suffer a certain correction to make these assets from the sale of assets go into investment, because we know very well that in the past, the funds were used for the budget and spent on keeping the social peace that was. They just got lost like that. If this would be specified to be used precisely for certain investments in order to encourage employment. There are other laws here that specify things, but there's one area that's left unscheduled, which is about public enterprises like EPS, JAT, which are not privatized. The law would have to be passed, that based on a realistic assessment of the value of the property, those workers who created that property and who work there, or who worked, have the right to free stock of 200 euros. It should be in this law to find its place to be complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5781	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5782	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my predecessor said, today we have a second-in-a-kind set of reform and system laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent to the Republic of Serbia for consideration. I would say that once again confirms the commitment and commitment of the government when it comes to reforms. Today, after the adoption of the Law on PIO and the Labour Act, we are making another qualitative shift, another step further leading to the recovery of our country's economic system and leading to a new and greater employment in Serbia. Serbia must reform and therefore must make bold and economic moves, but sometimes difficult and painful political decisions. The reform process must continue. We must adopt a set of system laws, because without the adoption of a set of system and reform laws in the Republic's parliament, there will be no positive shift, which is the essence and ultimate goal of all of us. Without system laws, it is not possible to improve what was said during today's debate, to improve the business and investment climate in Serbia, to improve the business environment, it is not possible to create an attractive investment destination from Serbia. The citizens of Serbia said very clearly in the recent early parliamentary elections -- that -- modernization, yes -- change, yes -- reforms. I would say that this Government of the Republic of Serbia has one strong political legitimacy, one strong political mandate, but I would say that this Government of the Republic of Serbia has one determination and determination to solve everything that is not, to offer answers to solutions to everything that has not been good in the previous and past period of time. We are talking today about a proposal for a law on privatisation, a very important and important law, but I would say, the very theme of privatisation is very painful and difficult for the citizens of Serbia, because there are few citizens of Serbia who have in some way not felt the negative effects of the present process and the privatisation process in Serbia, I mean the period from 2001 to today. That's what we were talking about. So, yes, the current law was passed in 2001, and according to the current law, about 2,300 companies were privatized. However, this number and number alone do not say anything. What is an essential issue when it comes to the total number of privatised enterprises from 2001 to today is – how many successful privatisations in Serbia, how many failed privatisations, how many broken contracts are in terms of privatisation and how many others there are, let's say, undefined status in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the sense that companies are reportedly privatised, but there are established reasons for the break-up of privatisation, because the one who privatised the company does not meet and does not comply with the contract of the prescribed obligation and, unfortunately, the burden in such situations falls mainly on an honest worker who wants a fair job with a fair salary and a decent life. Unfortunately, we have weak companies, somehow the whole, overall environment is bad, we have weak legislation and from everything that could be heard during today's debate and what can be seen is that the existing legislation is not able to end and complete this extremely important process and privatisation process in Serbia. There are numerous errors in the previous time period from 2001 to today, and I would not talk about it. So it is not possible to end this extremely important process and procedure in Serbia, which is due to the lack of legislation, due to conflicts with individual laws. Of the laws we're talking about today, the privatisation law is flexible and I personally think it's very good, because it is the right way and way, the only possible way and way, to get out of an undefined situation, the current situation in which companies and businesses are present. From the privatisation law, we expect first of all to correct those errors and irregularities observed during the past period, but we also expect that this law on privatisation to address and solve the problem, it has already been said, for 600 companies on the list of the Privatisation Agency, which employs about a hundred thousand workers, have the value of assets of several billion and, of course, when I say the total number of enterprises, I mean 161 companies that are in the process of restructuring, but all of them cost and is a rock on the neck of the republican budget and costs about 800m euros. We fully agree that such a situation and such a situation cannot be permanently delayed, extended indefinitely, given minimum earnings, state subsidies, and we have a burden of 800m euros. So we agree that it's not good to have a fictitious job, to be a rock around the neck of the republican budget, not to make a living, not to have production and have absolutely no profit. What we expect from this law is to remove obstacles that so far existed and that made it impossible for the business environment to improve in Serbia and start the economy. That's what it was about. So this law offers both measures and methods and modality which, as far as we are concerned, corresponds fully to the real needs of companies and businesses. When I say companies and businesses, I mean companies that are not privatised, enterprises in the restructuring process, find a strategic partner, find investors and start a real and only possible model of production. So, we're not talking here, you're picturesquely expressing yourself, about supporting the survival of the company, or about the survival of the company, we're talking about the realization of an idea, about one systematic approach for companies to turn to themselves and say whether they have the essence of existence or not. We believe that this concept will also boost economic growth in the sense that healthy businesses will find a strategic investor partner and continue to produce and work, and on the other hand, the budget of the Republic of Serbia will not be set aside for losing and non-conforming enterprises that have absolutely no production. The economic logic of the SPS parliamentary club is clear – to find the only real and possible way out of the current situation of undefined status in which companies not privatised are presently located. Because it is unacceptable for companies to stand in some unresolved and undefined status. We expect from this law that this legislative proposal will after adoption allow one efficient and fair way, under market conditions, to end the change in company ownership, that the whole process be transparent and that there is one level of maximum responsibility, which is understood. Of the new solutions already discussed during today's debate, we expect to end the privatisation process in Serbia, but also to be in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, trade unions, employees and, of course, in the interest of creditors. We think it is very important that both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the unions be on one side at the moment. Otherwise, it would be a very bad message for strategic partners and investors who are considering coming to our market. As far as the objectives that are to be achieved are concerned, by adopting this legislative proposal they are fully acceptable and justified to us – to remove the failures and corrections of the mistakes observed in the past time period, to give a clear, adequate, realistic answer for problems, when it comes to 600 companies on the list of the Agency for Privatisation and, of course, the intensity of the legislator is clear, that is the opinion of the SPS Parliament Club, that in the whole process as few people in Serbia are left without a job. What is also important, and what is significant, is that a quality public debate was held, when it comes to the system laws we are talking about today and that many suggestions and suggestions that could be heard during the public debate are part of this legislative proposal. It is also important to have a positive opinion and relevant institutions – the Fiscal Council, the European Commission and the World Bank. What we consider as a parliamentary club is a very important issue when it comes to the process itself and the privatisation process, it is the control of the execution of the contract after privatisation. We believe that the accent of the sea and should be on high-quality, good, continuous control and privatised enterprises, therefore, enterprises privatised under current law from 2001 to today, and companies that will be privatised under the new law that we are talking about today. Because if we don't have that kind of control, it could definitely be fatal to the Serbian economy. Therefore, there must be sound and good control, so that there are no more deadlines by the Privatisation Agency, then they do not meet and carry out the obligations defined by the contract, companies go into bankruptcy and, unfortunately, again, the burden falls on those employees, or on workers. What I want to point out as an example of why control is important and why the accent should be placed on control is a memo that I have had in the last few days to get from employees from a Valjev company. Valjevo, unfortunately, is one of the cities and municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that has felt the negative effects and the negative consequences of the current flow of privatisation, which was very bad and, I would say, catastrophic. Once powerful economic operators, industrial giants who hired the largest number of Valjevo citizens and who built Valjevo, do not exist today. The letter I just mentioned concerns an enterprise that is privatized, but somehow there is an undefined status. So that I don't improvise, I'll read what I got from employees from this company. It is "Krusik batteries" from Valjev, a company that was privatised in 2007. The privatisation agency, said in this memo, gave four subsequent deadlines to the owner at the end of five years to pay off the guaranteed minimum earnings law and it says that these profits have not been paid. On two occasions, the Management Board of the Privatisation Agency recommended that the Agency’s sales contract ‘Accumulator Circle’ be terminated. The agency, standing again in this memo, did not follow the recommendation. The Ministry of Business, it said, has carried out administrative supervision of the privatisation agency's procedure in the case of the "Cruise of the Battery", resulting in the return of control of the owner's behaviour with the fifth additional payment period of minimum earnings within 15 days to the employees of the "Cruise of the Battery". That deadline expired on 22 April 2014, and the owners failed to comply with the warrant and the Agency requested instructions from the Ministry of Economy. Otherwise, salaries in this Valjev company have not been paid since October 2012, and contributions to PIO since May 2012, contributions to health care since the end of 2012. The resolution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 7 July 2011 listed "Krusik batteries" as an enterprise of particular importance for our country's defence of the state. So I'm just citing this as one bad example of bad privatisation that took place between 2001 and today. On the other hand, I cite it for one simple reason, to point out how important it is to put the accent on the control of privatised enterprises and, of course, I cite it because I count on the government's commitment to respond to such undefined situations in which many businesses are located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For the very end, I will just say, as regards the draft bankruptcy law, what the authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club said, we are convinced that the adoption of this law will create conditions for improving the business environment in Serbia, more effectively implementing bankruptcy proceedings, preventing abuse and corruption in this very important process, a very important process, that transparency will increase, eliminate the problems that exist at this point in practice and increase trustees' rights. In the end, I will say once again, in the voting day, the SPS Parliament Club will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5783	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5784	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, I really think this is the first more serious attempt to solve the company's restructuring problem and state-owned enterprises that have accumulated losses for years and generate dubiosis. The seriousness that the prime minister has brought into the new government, in the government's work and moves it is making, are definitely talking about how important it is and how necessary it is to end the subsidies of losers who take more than 740m euros on an annual basis. What is also important, and I would quote Minister Udovicki, unless the reforms begin urgently, we will work for the interest. The privatisation law refers to 584 enterprises, including restructuring companies, which are 157. The budget costs around 740m euros annually and is therefore foreseen by law to end their status by April next year until the government's anniversary. The privatisation deadline for the rest is the end of next year. What's very important, and it's about the bankruptcy law, is that privatisation will also be possible by selling capital, selling property, strategic partnership, transfer of capital without compensation, etc. The Privatisation Agency should ensure transparency and price formation in fair and market conditions. I would also mention the law on bankruptcy, which should first and foremost provide conditions for a better business environment, more efficient implementation of bankruptcy proceedings and prevention of abuse and corruption in the process. The goal is to increase trustees' rights and address the problems identified in the earlier period. What is particularly significant is that in this case, it is those who decide to choose a bankruptcy manager. This is also very important for the acceleration of bankruptcy itself and for the efficiency of the whole process. What I'd like to point out is that privatisation of the remaining 600 state-owned enterprises will not be a robbery. It cannot happen that 1,000 of the best, most qualitative, most successful enterprises in Serbia are sold, if it can be called that, for two billion euros. Also, that fact itself speaks for itself about what privatisation was. I'd like to tell Mr. Martinovic, he's not here, that he's really wrong if he thinks that only in Vojvodina are the yellow breaths that are wrong. I'll give you an example of privatization from Prokuplje, where I come from. In fact, the Cup welcomed privatisation with 10,700 employees, of which 6,700 in the economy. Here's what they did. Hisar company - after 5 October, two and a half million marks of money, goods, raw materials, shares of commercial banks and about 1,000 employees. After withdrawing money from DOS Dahija sold "Pionir" and today employs about 150 workers. The company Prokupac - before the privatisation of 72 workers, privatized, currently launched bankruptcy proceedings. Milan Toplica, a water factory - before the privatisation of 100 workers. Privatized by the people against whom the so-called procedure was conducted. The bankruptcy mob. After that, privatisation was annulled, "Invest international" sold in 2011 and so far, the quality of water flows into the Toplica River. More specifically, Milan Toplice resisted the Turks, but these modern-day breaths definitely failed. The company "Toplicanka", the cotton yarn industry - used before the privatisation of 1,200 workers. After that, privatized from bankruptcy. Today, production facilities have been sold to private people who made them a business space. There are no workers. The company “Fiaz”, a factory of asbestos brake linings – employs 619 workers. Today, there are no workers in "Fiaz". Factory of colored metals – before privatisation of 1,000 employees. One of the most successful factories in Serbia. It is privatized and now about 75 workers are working, who are irregularly receiving personal income. The hollow glass factory – before the privatisation of 493 employees, privatized and now there are no workers. The flat glass factory – before the privatisation of 64 employees, privatized and now there are no workers. The company "Universal Transport" – employed about 300 workers before privatisation. After that, it was sold out of bankruptcy in 2005 and now there are no workers. Toplica company -- purchased from bankruptcy. There used to be 160 workers, and now there are no workers. Trade company "Straft" – before privatization 271 employees, and now Doo "Straft" two workers. Who is to blame that more than 5,000 workers are out of work, and why do their family lack bread? In the name of all this, I would ask the question -- how is it possible that a large number of top people in the Democratic Party, those who performed on behalf of the Democratic Party, suddenly managed to provide themselves so materially and richly that it cannot be measured for some, and we know that for many of them these positions were the first jobs, without work experience and the first job in life? Today they convince us that it wasn't there. How do we believe this? Who is to blame for 5,000 lost, ruined jobs in Prokuplje and how many in Serbia? I would ask, is there any rope between these people who systematically destroyed property and judicial authorities? Has anyone been processed? I would also ask the question – were the people who were damaged able to defend their property or various tricks and legal tricks practically not in a position to solve their problems? I'm really asking you to understand why I'm emotionally talking about all this. A huge number of people in Prokuplje have lost their jobs and the city is on the verge of social misery. Everything that has been done absolutely and to be processed, we're talking about criminal acts and acts. I also believe that the new law, proposed on bankruptcy and privatisation, will definitely bring about a improvement in this area. I'm sorry such a legal act wasn't passed when others were in power. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5785	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5786	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, given that today I have tried as comprehensively as possible to point to certain provisions of the Bank's Law, I now appear only for one single reason, which is to demystify some of the provisions of this law relating to colleagues, bankruptcy judges, as well as to finally remove one inconceivable, given today a number of criticisms which have been brought to the expense of bankruptcy managers and abuses that arise in the work of bankruptcy managers, and linked to judges. In fact, citizens create a kind of prejudice, and even generalisation, generalisation, estimates that more or less all bankruptcy judges are in some, under the name of the alleged, dealing with bankruptcy managers and thus making certain abuses and corrupt actions. Of course, that is not true and of course the existing law contains provisions which clearly regulate the way in which bankruptcy creditors are chosen, especially in some commercial courts by extracting them from drums, but what is now normized in these proposed changes and additions is a far more quality solution, which is the application of the algorithm. What's most important to me is that bankruptcy managers, except for the fact that they can't be linked in any case to persons who are linked to a creditor. In this way, such limited discretion or discretionary right of bankruptcy judges in the selection of bankruptcy managers is narrowed down, and it is allowed, in any case, that creditors have, or creditors have, and that the share and increase of shares in the selection of bankruptcy managers. What is important is to point out that no one today mentioned the provisions concerning criminal provisions relating to fines and other penalties imposed on bankruptcy managers in a disciplinary procedure, when determining violations of duties by bankruptcy managers. These amendments and additions are very precise and they also have a major role to play in preventing, or preventive action in relation to bankruptcy managers and their work, so as not to repeat these injuries. Why am I saying all this? Just because today's proposal I made, that the inevitable thinking is to cut for a brand-new bankruptcy director law, and I wanted to make another argument, which is not out today. In addition to the Privatisation Agency, why could a bankruptcy manager not be a legal person, or company? You're damn right he can. How can he do that? It can simply have the equipment, both from the point of view of the personnel structure and, in particular, from the point of view of professional references, i.e. raising the expertise of persons employed in that company or legal person who may and should, in my opinion, have to do the business of a bankruptcy manager in so-called complex bankruptcy. What are these complex bankruptcys? Today, we have also considered and analyzed it. It's a kind of appeal to literally come up with a final solution. In the end, if I didn't owe it, because I thought this was important to point out, I would point to only one provision, Mrs Matic, which I think might be clearer. Article 32 states - on the proposal of the committee of trustees for the resolution and at the same time the appointment of a new bankruptcy administrator, which has been declared by at least three quarters of the board members, the bankruptcy judge shall relieve the bankruptcy administrator and where there are no grounds for the resolution under Article 1 of this same article, but there are other reasons which relate to the fulfilment of the insolvency administrator's obligations. We have to admit that there's a bit of a vague formulation, but there are other reasons, and they're not taxed. I hope that this well-intentioned remark of mine will also have an impact on further legal norms, i.e. the precision of standards relating to bankruptcy managers. Thank you again for understanding, with the emphasis that the SPS parliamentary group will support the legal acts that we are considering today. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5787	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5788	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I can't help but notice, or express the satisfaction of taking over the presidency. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today's agenda, namely the proposed laws, the Privatisation Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vulnerabilities and Amendments and Supplements to the Registration Procedure of the Agency for Private Registers, the process of passing reform laws in the National Assembly continues. I want to express my satisfaction with that. I would like to announce that I will support these proposals, or that I will vote for them in the voting day. When it comes to the Privatisation Law proposal, I want to highlight the need to pass a new law that would solve all the problems that have so far prevented the completion of the privatisation process in the existing legal frameworks. In this respect, we have major problems, such as: the sale of the capital of the largest number of remaining companies that are over-indebted, liquid and insolvent, and in particular those undertakings whose total commitment exceeds the value of the total assets, the sale of assets through the restructuring process that we talked about, but also all other problems that have caused inconspicuous consequences on the privatisation process. I don't want to go back deep into the past and mention that since 2001 we've implemented some 2,300 privatisation procedures, the result of which is, to say the least, defeating. Obviously, the applicable regulation did not prove to be the most effective. If we exclude a wide range of consequences from these 584 companies, whose status remains undefined, so 161 companies are in restructuring and 423 other enterprises, and we focus only on the fact that they actually cost us. So, just a financial moment. It is necessary to take all measures to relieve citizens and businesses in this regard. The law we are discussing provides proposals to address the current restrictions that have made privatisation procedures difficult, proposes new solutions regarding the model and the privatisation method, but also measures that create preconditions for the application of exactly these privatisation models, which this law defines, such as the sale of capital, the sale of assets, the transfer of capital without compensation and the strategic partnership. Creating conditions for economic development, preventing corruption, creating conditions for social stability, creating a selling price according to fair market conditions and ensuring public and transparency, are certainly the objectives achieved by adopting this law. I would like to point out that by introducing new and redefining existing models and the privatisation method, we will create conditions for a faster and more efficient completion of the privatisation process, which will certainly have a positive impact on all participants in the privatisation process. So, the workers, the trustees, the small shareholders, the budget and I'm finally the subject of privatisation. I would also like to point out that the law prescribes a deadline for ending the privatisation of social capital and this deadline is 31 December of the current year, i.e. 2015, when we expect this full stabilisation of the macro-economic environment, as a consequence of the end of the process of transformation of ownership, property and capital in social and state ownership. When it comes to the draft law on changes and additions to the law on bankruptcy, what I would point out is that the proposed solutions provide conditions for more efficient implementation of bankruptcy procedures, to eliminate the different problems that existed in practice and thus create conditions for a positive business environment. What is very important is that it removes the inaccuracies and incompleteness of the bankruptcy regulation so far, and enables faster and more transparent settlement of creditors. Removing the possibility of various abuses, removing the possibility of corruption, establishing greater obligations to the bankruptcy manager, increasing transparency of the bankruptcy process, are just some of the positive effects of this law. In relation to the applicable law, the application of this law will further reduce the cost of bankruptcy, which is particularly reflected in micro and small enterprises, i.e. business entities. The way a bankruptcy manager will be elected in the future is certainly more transparent and better than the previous model that envisioned the direct selection of a bankruptcy director by the judge, which certainly affects the prevention of potential abuses, which I see as another in a series of concrete benefits. Control over the work of the bankruptcy manager, changes in payment orders, problem solving, long-term liquidity of legal persons, treatment of hostage creditors have also been areas that have gained a more precise dimension and a more significant role in this law. It can be concluded that these laws will bring multiple contributions to regulate Serbia's market and economy, and that we will cleanse our overall economic portfolio with efficient and transparent models.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5789	The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5790	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, amendments and additions to the Law on bankruptcy and justice that we are discussing today have caused a lot of controversy in the public. Mostly because of the importance these laws have on both the economy and the economy and the overall business environment in Serbia. When we talk about the bill of bankruptcy we cannot talk about without talking about the shortcomings and problems in the current application of the bankruptcy law which, above all, is mirrored in the inappropriate and unnecessary lengthy duration of the bankruptcy procedure, the low level of settlement of creditors, the breach of deadlines by competent courts, the high cost of bankruptcy proceedings, etc. All in all, businesses and workers and creditors suffered, but the most suffered by the state. Surely all of us who come from different backgrounds have a series of examples of bad privatisations. Smederevo, where I come from, is literally maimed by bad privatisation. It's all privatized in a scandalous way and it's gone. Many companies have been bankrupt for over a decade. There are thousands of workers out of work, and that's not the only consequence and the only negative effect. For example, the "waterman" in Smederev was destroyed by poor privatisation. It is a large agricultural combination and because of this poor privatisation not only left many workers without a job, but total agricultural production was destroyed in the Mediterranean region. Another of the effects of bad legal solutions is that, for example, buildings and attractive land for construction and for future investment are located in the bankruptcy mass of enterprises and have been trapped in this way for years. So we've come into a situation where both businesses and workers in these companies are hostages to bad laws. The new legal solution will remove the identified existing shortcomings and improve the basic indicators of good bankruptcy, the reduction of the cost of bankruptcy, the degree of settlement of creditors and the faster bankruptcy process. With this bill, we create conditions for efficient and rapid bankruptcy, which also protects business interests and trustees' interests. What are the basic issues of citizens and employees when it comes to bankruptcy? First, when does the company go bankrupt? How long will the bankruptcy last? At what rate will bankruptcy trusts be settled, and what are the obligations of bankruptcy managers? Also, the key question is the responsibility of bankruptcy managers. To whom were the bankruptcy managers so far responsible for unwitting business, because in bankruptcy companies it was largely all about selling the capital of these companies and nothing was done to organise a healthy part of the company, organise production, and eventually put the company on its feet and who were responsible for the really unnecessary long acquired proceedings? We have examples that some companies are indeed seven, eight years and almost a decade in bankruptcy, and we have heard that the average is about three, four years. I must point out that what is really good is what is provided for in this law, which is more transparency, is also very important for privatisation and bankruptcy, because information on the economic financial situation of the company, on the market value of the company, on the admission of creditors must be made available to the public. When it comes to the Law on Privatisation, many believe that the law is late, because everything in Serbia has already been sold. But it's not exactly like that. Today we heard from the minister that the Privatisation Agency has 161 more companies in restructuring that employ around 50,000 workers and 419 companies that have failed to find owners or are privatization contracts to break up, and there are nearly 36,000 workers in them. That's almost 90,000 workers. When we add to the number of 700,000 unemployed workers, it's really for all of us worrying about the data. The fact is that privatisations in Serbia are not well implemented, but this law will allow us to at least finish them well. The new privatisation law should finally resolve the status of firms that have been in restructuring for years and that have about 400 billion dinars in the previous year. The problem is that these companies have not produced anything for years, and they owe both for taxes and for municipal costs to both banks and the state, and it is mainly the case that the company's debts are greater than the assets the company has. These companies are both technically and technologically lagging behind, as nothing has been invested in them for years, so for most of them it will be a really big problem to find either a new owner, a buyer or a strategic partner. This government is not to blame for this situation, but in this government, the biggest concern now is what about the company workers who won't be able to find a new owner and who will have to be liquidated? The Socialist Party of Serbia does not want any workers to lose their jobs, and I am convinced that everyone in this room and we think and want to. Since the proposals of the privatisation and bankruptcy law provide new opportunities in the sense that the sale of state property will be more flexible and that parts of the company will be made available, the assumption is that the number of interested buyers will also be greater. The aim of the adoption of these laws is precisely to attract investors and strategic partners who will be willing to take part in privatising the remaining social capital and assets of the privatisation company with simple, efficient, transparent laws. As the SPS authorised representative, Nejko Jovanovic, said today, the SPS will support the drafts of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5791	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5792	I thank the esteemed president. Dearly respected ministers, dear guests, colleagues and colleagues, we have a set of three laws – Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on registration at the Agency for Commercial Registers. I'll just say one word for this third law, it's actually harmonising the norms of this law with the new accounting law. What needs to be talked about much more and more in detail is primarily the Law on bankruptcy. The bankruptcy law, two laws were passed in 2009 and 2011, quite good and correct, but time has shown that they have to change in certain segments. First of all, the length of bankruptcy for three to four years, as she said just before, and in many situations up to 10 years. With this bill, we believe that the deadlines of the process will certainly be shortened, we will come to a much better transparency of the bankruptcy process itself. Much more attention has been paid to these bill proposals, primarily trustees' rights, and this bill alone will make the process much faster and simpler. What should be pointed out specifically and noted is the choice of bankruptcy managers. So far, in most cases, it has been a case for a bankruptcy judge to choose a bankruptcy director. The law that is most said today and has been under discussion is just the proposal for a law on privatisation. All the previous laws that have been passed since 1989, according to me, the one from 1989 seemed to me to be one of the better laws, having had one great flaw, had no handle, or had no binding character, but was allowed to be privatized under that law by the one who considered it necessary and could be privatized. All those companies where we heard today about the successes of some privatisation were first and foremost privatized under the 1989 law that was much better and more transparent than this law that was before us. We have heard several times in today's debate that there are 584 companies left in the privatisation process, of which 161 enterprises are in restructuring. Unfortunately, from the city where I come from, from the King, there are five companies on the list of restructuring companies, and the sadder the saddest thing, there are two companies that primarily employ the disabled MAK-DI and Plast Metal. Previous privatisation, even in the case of the city of Kraljev, speaks of how badly and unconsciously it has been carried out. I'll say that from companies that I know are privatized most of them don't exist anymore. There is one large giant "Jasen" that exists, still works under the same name, but there is no longer any "Slovo", there is no large commercial company from that old Yugoslavia, which was "Technometal", "Traffe", "Popirpromet", "Paljopromet", which were large businesses in the trade sphere at the level of Yugoslavia, those from the 1980s. After this privatisation, no single company of them exists by name or last name. The assets of the company were divided after two or three years, what was the obligation under the law, and all of them, and they were usually associations that appeared in auctions and tenders, they shared the property, they sold all the bars they could sell and thus they settled for those funds they invested. As far as the workers are concerned, none of them are left in a working relationship. I would especially like to mention here the "Magnochroma" problem mentioned by counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic at the beginning of today's exhibition, the industry which today, both in Europe and in the world, has been placed for its products, and above all I am thinking about the fire-status factory. The biggest tragedy, and I talked about it in my own time and put it in one parliamentary question, is that after the ultimate failure of privatisation where Magnochrom sold itself to an Indian company, they called on Mitale, the big world steel corporation, probably by the same family only. When I mention steel, it is just a story that the steel industry is in crisis, but Magnochro with its fire-storage production even today when the steel industry is in crisis has secured the market. What happened? After a failed privatisation, one of the tunnel furnaces in Magnochroma was cut, sold as old iron and over two neighbouring states ended up in KIM. The same ones that broke it down there put it together. And these are successful privatisations? Please, where was the control, where was what? What's Magnochrom doing? He's doing a small part of now that deals mainly with the production of electrothermic products, he's dealing with some products again that are probably, because it's also dirty technology and dirty production, in Europe no one works, and they're heating roofs for stoves. He's in one part of the production of TA ovens. What's going on with the car factory? A car factory, even uglier, even a nigger story. A factory that has a hundred years of experience, a plant that has capacity and has capacity has been sold to a corporation in Ukraine. Come on, we sold the factory, but with the factory we also sold the Stratište, and we sold the place where many Royals were shot in 1941, we sold the school, we sold the football field. So we took such good and quality care of privatisations that we didn't know what we had to do or what we couldn't sell. Not to mention that both at this time and for the Car Factory and for Magnochrom, there are strategic partners, there are also offers, there are markets. In order not to go back to history, I'm just going to say that this law that we are now discussing and which we are proposing has the following objectives – creating conditions for the development of the economy, ensuring public and transparency of what we have missed most so far, disabling corruption, forming a selling price according to fair market conditions and creating conditions for social stability. First of all, the law does not impose prior privatisation methods, as was the case with the previous law, but will subsequently assess what is the best model, whether the sale of capital, the sale of assets, the strategic partnership or the transfer of capital without compensation. What I will specifically point to is the opinion of the Fiscal Council where it has very positively expressed itself on the proposed law on privatisation. To allow colleagues behind me to say something, in any case SNS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5793	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5794	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, before I begin my presentation on the Privatisation Bill, allow me to inform you in just a few sentences what disastrous consequences the privatisation done in the territory of the town of Leskovec, where I come from and whose citizens I represent in this high house. From 2002 to 2011, a total of 53 companies were privatised in the territory of the town of Leskovac, of which 51 companies were privatised by the method of auction, while two companies were privatised by the tender method. The Privatisation Agency's control sector has broken down 20 purchase contracts. Of these 20 companies, 11 companies are in bankruptcy proceedings, five companies have been deleted from the register, one company has been sold out of bankruptcy, two are in restructuring, while one company has been returned to the founder for further jurisdiction. By 2011, 18 privatisation contracts were terminated, and two other contracts were terminated in 2011 and 2012. Thirty social enterprises remain unprivitized. This kind of privatisation from 2002 to 2011 has closed 14,000 jobs. So 14,000 of my fellow citizens are out of a job. Following a detailed analysis of the performance of privatisation done in the territory of the town of Leskovec, it was concluded that absolutely successful privatisation was made only in one company, which accounts for 1.9% of the total number of privatised enterprises. In other companies, in our case, these are 42 companies, or 80% of privatised companies, an absolutely unsuccessful privatisation has been carried out. The exact data on the performance of privatisation in the town of Leskovac and in the territory of the Republic of Serbia cannot be extracted, but if there is a slightly higher percentage of broken contracts than the number of privatisations made, as well as some available financial data, there are serious indications that the degree of performance of privatisation is significantly below the republican average. Also, if we take into account the number of companies sold and the revenues from their sales at the level of the Republic of Serbia and the town of Leskovec, we conclude that the participation of wood-sold enterprises in the total number of 2.23% and that their participation in the total turnover is only 0.89%. We know that the proceeds from the sale of the company at auctions and tenders are collected by the Privatisation Agency, which, after covering the cost of privatisation, pays the funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from where the funds are later directed towards units of local self-government followed by 5% of the revenue achieved. Given that much of the auction sales were made in the wars, the inflow into Leskovec's budget was less than 5% of the amount of the sale price, so our city was also damaged. The new Privatisation Act, which is on the agenda today, will create conditions for economic development, will minimise negative fiscal effects, ensure public and transparency and thus prevent corruption. The sale price will be formed according to fair market conditions, so that one company will no longer be able to be sold at the price of what is at that time the value of the stock held in the warehouse in the company, as it was done in the privatisation process of the social enterprise "Health" from Leskovec and some other companies. Also, the new law will create conditions for maintaining social stability through the creation of new or preserving existing jobs. The new law provides for the application of certain measures to mitigate corporate obligations. Also, this law will create a clear selection between companies that can find the owner and their business to continue in that direction and those companies that cannot, on the other hand, go through privatisation so that they can return their resources to cash flows through the bankruptcy process. The new law also defines a mandatory deadline for implementing the privatisation of social capital and introduces mechanisms that remove risks of corruption and money laundering. Prior to the conclusion of the privatisation contract, the Privatisation Agency shall obtain an opinion from the competent organisation to prevent money laundering on the absence of interference by the buyer. It is clear that there has been a disturbance in privatisation, i.e. to implement a very small number of privatisations, due to the lack of investors' motivation to take over the privatisation process under existing conditions. The fact is, under the applicable Privatisation Act, it is not possible to effectively end the privatisation process and therefore, in the voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5795	Thank you. The word is Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5796	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, agency members, honourable MPs, since we've been on the Committee of Commerce since this morning from eight o'clock, above all, and later here in the debate, I've heard both the advantages and any shortcomings these bill proposals contain, I'd be very brief, and I'd point out two or three things. We heard in one discussion that there was no serious public debate about these laws. A month and a half ago I was also a participant of the first public debate in Nis, organized in the Chamber of Commerce, so in about five or six hours of discussion with businessmen and actors from Nisavski, Pirotski, and I think the Jablan region was included, people made suggestions and suggestions. Therefore, someone mentioned that this is the third draft law in fact, but it is also the competent minister and the people of the ministry that have certainly taken into account all objections and suggestions, so today we have this bill which, in my opinion, is a good law, which contains clear models, methods and measures and deadlines for the implementation of this procedure. The problem is that no one in Serbia has dealt seriously with these companies in the past 15 years, but has been released to maintain social peace, some social security. However, if we consider that the generated debt of these 584 companies is higher than 6.5 billion euros and that every year we allocate some 750m to 800m euros from the state budget for the situation in which our economy is located, it is simply unsustainable. The minister mentioned, and also a colleague before me, that the paper was the final word before the contract was concluded by the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. We have witnessed in the past that some of the privatisations were carried out in a way where there was no origin of money, that there were some of the short companies that we didn't know who the owners were, and I think this law removes such doubts and certainly has one perspective. Probably the minister himself, we as peoples MPs and citizens of Serbia would be happy to sell all 584 companies for at least one dinar and preserve all 90,000 jobs. But will is one thing, and reality is another. But if we can solve a good percentage of these companies, I'm sure they'll be fine. By the way, we have to work on bringing new investors through greenfield investments to provide work for workers who are in these companies today without a job. This Privatisation Act is in some way a good offer for an investor, it's really one specificity of this law, because different models and methods can be combined. So for the first time, we have one flexible law that really only aims to resolve the status of all these companies and workers themselves. What is a recommendation, and we talked about it this morning on the board, should probably, in fact, be quite certain to strengthen both personnel resources and the Privatisation Agency, as well as the Ministry of Economy, so that we can really respect these deadlines. I think even a colleague from the Privatisation Agency has received with the approval that seven to ten State Secretarys in this Ministry should surely be able to bring this job to an end. It should not be forgotten, given that this law does not treat some already privatised entities, so as my colleagues used the pay phone, I would point out the problem of companies from my region, from Piroth, above all "Tiger" a.d. and "First May" Aha Mura. On this occasion, I thank the minister for his strength to interrupt some of the public debates, to arrange a meeting with them, for people to present their problems. For example, we have a strategic product in Tiger for the country. We have now seen in recent floods what a rubber boot means. They have no competition, and they have a great market. Also similar is the situation with Pirot's First May, which has serious contracts with German partner Hugo Bos. I would really ask the minister once again, so publicly, to find the best solution that in these two companies, since they employ about 3,000 workers, in any way we preserve those jobs, because for Pirot, it would be a disaster for some 12,000 people to lose their existence. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5797	The word is Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5798	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have very important and very good bill proposals and I will focus on the Privatisation Act in my presentation. The new Privatisation Act provides a solution to the problems that have prevented the process of ending privatisation in the existing legal frameworks, especially for the sale of assets through the restructuring process. The multi-annual privatisation agony of Vrsak vineyards and the industrial and cultural symbol of the city from which I come is one of the examples. The basic idea of the Privatisation Act is to achieve fiscal consolidation objectives by minimising negative fiscal effects, creating a favourable investment environment that will allow for an increase in social stability through the creation of new and preservation of existing jobs in the real sector. The law introduces entirely new models and ways of privatisation and thus enables individual access to the assessment of sustainable business performance. The benchmark for the correctness of the assessment of sustainable business performance is letters on the intentions of potential investors. The implementation of these procedures creates a realistic and reliable basis for making decisions on a model, method and privatisation measures for companies with sustainable business. The law stimulates the successful sale of capital and capital capital and capitalisation, since in the case of the sale of assets it is not possible to apply the measures for preparing and discharging entities. The write-off and conversion of debt were conditioned by the successful sale of capital or recapitalisation. The problem of entities that have no performance for sustainable business is solved by the only possible and economically justified alternative, which is bankruptcy. Such a legal framework offers economically justified and socially acceptable solutions, and the SNS will support these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5799	Thank you. The People's Messenger Zarko Micin has the word, and let Milena Turk's folk letter be prepared. Mr. Micin, sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5800	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, as Prime Minister Mr. Vukic promised today, and before the end of 100 days of the government, we have two laws in front of us from a set of reform laws, and this is the Law on privatisation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank's Law. Why was it necessary to pass a new law on privatisation? Because the old Privatisation Act was passed in 2001 and went to juvie five times, 2003, 2005, 2007, 2010 and 2012. Despite the obvious shortcomings, however, he was not fundamentally altered even though he proved to be bad. Why do I say bad? Because it has proved that the application of the old law has caused great damage to both the Serbian economy and the Serbian citizens, with the Serbian industry almost completely destroyed. A large portion of the citizens were orphaned, and a large portion was out of work. For example, there were 1.1 million people working in the industry in 1990, in 2000, 750 thousand people, and today less than 275,000 people. The revenue from privatisation from law-making to date, so for 13 years, was only 3.5 billion euros, and for comparison, that is the amount of money that our people who work abroad bring to Serbia each year. So it's very little money. The sale of these companies under the old law resulted in an extremely small profit, even a little relative to what the companies that were the subject of privatisation were really worth. That the law was bad shows us that out of 2,300 companies sold privatisations were broken in as many as 680 cases, with a large number of companies returned to the state completely robbed. Why? Because the old law allowed these owners to pump capital out of the company and transfer it to their other companies, sell out property and not pay the workers. Such behaviour of capital buyers under the previous law was also allowed to pay for the wars, as the new owners had enough time to sell out the property before they could end the purchase. So the old law also allowed abuses of capital buyers, and for this very reason today we have a number of criminal proceedings on the list of 24 disputed privatisations where a large number of investigations have been launched, with indictments brought against more than 60 people, with more than 50 people arrested. The suspects included senior state officials who were in power before 2012. The arrest of senior state officials in respect of controversial privatisations conducted under the old law shows us that the privatisation process in Serbia under the old law was followed by large or systemic corruption, i.e. that corruption and privatisation included the entire bureaucratic hierarchy, the electoral system and the entire structure of the government, from local to highest level. It is precisely this corrupt scheme of new businessmen and political factors that discouraged potential investors, reduced revenues from privatisation and led to the creation of an army of unemployed. In order to partially neutralize the bad effects of the previous law and to make the privatisation process more efficient, more flexible and transparent, we today have a new Privatisation Act. The new Privatisation Act provides for a more flexible approach to determining models, methods and measures of privatisation and provides for four models of privatisation, which are sales of capital, sale of assets, strategic partnership and transfer of capital without compensation. Two privatisation methods and this public collection of offers and public collection of offers with public competition. Three measures, which are financial consolidation, debt write-off and debt conversion into a permanent stake or conversion. All of these methods, models and measures are tailored to the real needs of companies in the restructuring process or not privatised earlier, all in order to find the right model of privatisation for these companies and thus to get out of the present bad situation. The new law will allow and sell parts to the firm, not just the whole as it has so far. The press of the Privatisation Act is that the initial price will be at least one half of the estimated value of capital, i.e. assets, and earlier it was only 20%. The new starting price at the second round of public tendering offers will be at least one third, and now 10% of the estimated value of the capital, i.e. the assets. What may be most important is that the new law also provides for control of money flows, so that the privatisation contract will not be possible to sign with a person who does not receive the approval of the Money Laundering Control Agency. So it won't be possible for someone at the auctions to buy us a year-and-a-half of the company for one man who's the easiest thing to say is a very suspicious past. The future Privatisation Act will have the status of a special law, i.e. "lex specialis", which means that in the event of cohesion with other laws, it will have the advantage of applying which will certainly contribute to the effectiveness of its application. As for the new law on bankruptcy, the necessity of its adoption stems from the fact that there are currently more than 30,000 enterprises in Serbia in the blockade. That analysis shows that under the old law, trustees managed to collect only a third of their claims. Also, in the application of the old law, the company went bankrupt, but the management before that sold all the property, and then no one could be charged anymore. There have been some bankruptcy managers running too many bankruptcy proceedings. So we had a situation that before 2012, a bankruptcy manager conducted as many as 65 bankruptcy proceedings and we had a situation that as many as 72 bankruptcy managers led over 15 bankruptcy proceedings. What you have to admit is too many that only one person runs so many bankruptcy proceedings. The new Banking Act will avoid the negative effects of the old laws and will change the very essence of bankruptcy. The essence of bankruptcy is not only the bankruptcy of the company, but also the process of reorganisation so that the company, if possible, continues to live, attract and pay salaries to employees. What are the basic papers and advantages of the bankruptcy law? Therefore, a faster and more efficient bankruptcy process. The bankruptcy proceedings will last for the longest two years after the new bankruptcy law is adopted. The current average is three and a half years, but many last a lot longer. The new law allows creditors to participate more actively in the bankruptcy process, determine the bankruptcy managers and bear the costs, all in order to implement a more efficient bankruptcy procedure. The control of the work of bankruptcy managers will be stricter and, in the event of irregularities being identified in their work, the authorised authority will be entitled, under a prepared procedure, to give the measure from the notice to the withdrawal of the licence. The law also provides for the protection of creditors from alienating matters, so that if the creditor unauthorizedly alienate the matter during the bankruptcy proceedings, or during the previous bankruptcy proceedings, the matter is unauthorized to alienate at the actions of the temporary bankruptcy manager, the trustee shall have the right to seek compensation for the total damage. The new law removes the possibility that the former owner or related person who led the company to bankruptcy, enters the trustee board and directly influences the decision-making process in the bankruptcy proceedings. The new law also gives a greater role to the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, as it will issue licences under the new law in addition to the control of the work of bankruptcy managers, a directory of bankruptcy managers, the organisation of exams every year and other activities entrusted to it by the government. Therefore, the new law on privatisation and changes and additions to the Bank's law will make these proceedings faster and more effective. It will increase transparency both in the privatisation process and in the bankruptcy process. It will enable more effective prevention of abuse in these procedures, eliminate problems in practice and what may be most important, protect and increase the rights of all participants in these procedures. And that's why I'm about to vote for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5801	Thank you, Mr. Micin. The word has a folk letter from Milena Turk, let MP Milinko Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5802	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also focus on the privatisation law, as I come from the municipality of Trstenik, from the municipality where the factory "The First Five-year-old" is one of 164 enterprises in restructuring. I have an obligation to speak of this giant as a factory worker and to mention that this company is still one of the leading in the area of the machinery industry in the Balkans. There used to be 17 thousand workers, today that number is much smaller, 3200. However, it remains huge for our neighborhood, given how many families depend on the survival of this company and on working in this factory. This law is now putting an emphasis on enterprises that are of strategic importance for the region, and prescribes certain benefits related to the discharge of the obligations of such privatisation entities. The first five-year-old is a unique company in such production, and its users are numerous and domestic firms such as NIS, EPS, such as the Termoelectric. In the past, however, due to the imposition of sanctions on wars, but also to the poor business of "The First Five-year-old" was found in the situation in which it is today. Why am I talking about bad business? In the years that have been for us subsidies intended to perfect products, to expand the market, to adopt new products aimed at modernising machinery, have been spent on paying wages, have been spent on party employment. Today, however, you will hear that the company's management is at fault and no one is asking the question of whose ability was this management, whether someone was controlling his work, whether someone had reproved or sanctioned anyone for bad business. However, these are issues that remain open. Still, she'd be focusing on some of the positive things that this law makes. This state law shows that it cares for the enterprises involved in restructuring. To take care of employees, to intend to increase productivity and maintain employment. This law provides a broad possibility, does not prescribe any strict flows, but allows for the chance of survival for such enterprises, although in privatisation procedures there have been impasses, such solutions in this law allow transparent and realistic models for the privatisation of businesses, those with sustainable business. In such a law on privatisation, a clear message is being sent that the climate of business is changing in Serbia, attracts the investor and potential strategic partners. They also see that the climate is changing in Serbia and this clearly shows in the letter of intent, i.e. the interest that is already coming, and "The First Five-year-old" has received such a letter from world-renowned companies in the field of hydraulics and pneumatics. All this gives hope that factories can be preserved and saved and we deeply believe in the possibilities provided by this law. I would like to cite in particular one member, member of 77, who speaks of conditional debt write-off and debt conversion into a permanent stake, i.e. achieving a positive value of capital and attracting investors. Given the extent to which restructure enterprises are over-indebted, these discharges of privatisation entities are very important. Also, one item that was previously problematic in the privatisation process, which is the starting price of the company is now defined as at least half of the total estimated value, which is a significant shift, because so far the initial price that was considered unrealistic, because with the obligations that followed the customer to preserve the number of employees or to maintain their performance, was an additional item that burdens. With transparency, this law also offers and allows for the elimination of corruption, because for each process and each assessment will be consulted and the requested opinion of the Money Laundering Organization and with all these positive effects, in the voting day, I will support this draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5803	The People's Messenger Milinko Zivkovic has the word, and let MP Vojislav Vujic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5804	The respected chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, Serbian citizens, is ahead of us with two important draft laws, so on privatisation and bankruptcy. The privatisation law and the bankruptcy law I was waiting for with anxiety and coldness, like all workers, creditors, small shareholders and ultimately privatisation entities. These laws apply to privatisation entities operating in majority, social and state capital. The introduction of new and redefining existing methods and models will create conditions for a faster end of privatisation and respect two basic principles of privatisation, disabling corruption and forming a fair market price. The existing law has not met expectations. The most complex example of the monsters of previous privatisations is the RT Bor, the environment from which I come. We entered the restructuring in 2004, and from that year until 2008, 15 RTB companies were sold, 13 were privatized, and one company was state-owned and IP Majdanpek was restructured, as well as RTB base part. We had 22.5 thousand workers, and now something more than 5,000 workers. So, 17.5 thousand workers lost their jobs. Today, 950 workers are barely working in these privatised enterprises. That's when our troubles started since 2004. They sold processing companies, where we collected money, and today we only sell raw materials, cathode copper, and copper wire, which is devastating, which in two ways, almost before the sale was also the base part of RTB, but fortunately to date has not been sold. During a visit, the now respected governor of NBS, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, said – where good luck was there that there were more failed privatisations, as was the case with the base section of RTB Bor where we would have ended today. During the sale, companies whose construction of RTB Bor invested $371m, for only $12m, of which only two or three million belonged to RTB Bora, and the remaining debts and interest. Thanks to the fact that the base section hasn't been sold, this company today, although in restructuring, is making a $340m business income in a year. This company pays taxes and salary contributions of $270 million. This company pays the electricity $400 million a month. This company pays a salary of 620 million dinars and this company pays a VAT of 270 million dinars in a month and eventually earns a profit in the past four years, earning a profit of $150m, more than 50% of what RTB was planned to sell. The Bor mining melting pool today invests about 250 million dollars to build a melting plant and a sulphuric acid factory. He bought equipment for 85m euros, revitalised the fleet for 30m euros in Majdanpek and Bor and opened a newer Cerovo mine for $18m. If it wasn't for debts even from the 1960s, if it hadn't been for the already mentioned privatisations, RTB would have earned profits and business normally marketable. We see our chance in this law and the possibility that the Government can make a decision to disbursement RTB's obligations, because it meets all the conditions, not just one required by Article 75 of the bill. Strategic importance for the region, I would also say for the Republic, the size of assets over a billion and a half euros, the number of employees over five thousand, the amount of income $340m, the market potential foreign-oriented over 98% in sales. Methods and models would probably be combined, and the purpose of privatisation with a minority partner or a strategic partnership would be how to come about. State-owned enterprises to convert their claims by participating in the capital of the new RTB, the OEPS and banks, Borska Banka, Invest Banka, Beobanka, Development Fund and the RTB with minority investment in certain areas continues to work normally on the market. Normally, RTB would remain in the majority ownership of the state, as it is strategic production. I would give one suggestion at the end, that with the obligations of the customer where investments, social programme, continuity of business and others are also the cost of paying taxes or compensation to local self-government, on which the company that no longer works would not stand in ruins, and local self-government would after a number of years when the company did not work would return it to its property. Finally, both bill proposals are excellent, both workers and creditors, small shareholders, privatisation entities and the budget will benefit from it. In the day of voting with pleasure, I will vote for both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5805	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Since Mr. Vujic is not in the hall, the next is Aleksandar Senic, he is also not in the O.R., Gordana Comic's MP is not in the O.R., the word has a folk MP, Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5806	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has many economists, experts in all economic areas, economic institutions, economic colleges and we can essentially say that in Serbia today you have an economic elite and an economically mutilated state. On the one hand, all knowledge from the economy, and on the other hand macroeconomic results that are tragic. Today you have one segment of Serbian society, and we can hear it in this Assembly, which cannot understand that after 25 years of the transition process, or the termination of an arrangement that you can call socialism on the way to communism, there is a group of people in the Serbian people who don't understand it. It's as if every time and again when such bill comes to order, they're wondering – how and why? The dream and the belief that it is possible in Serbia, the only country in Europe, to keep the factory workers as a model that works in socialism, cannot go away and that belief is supported by the fact and the belief that it is possible to continue to pour social gross product from one part of society into another, all with the belief that this is the way it should be. That belief is as if it could never disappear from the state of Serbia. The privatisation process in Serbia began about 25 years ago, by passing the first law in 1989 and at that time, somehow at the same time, other European countries belonging to a single economic system began the privatisation process. The privatisation process ended in almost all other countries, except Serbia. In Serbia, it is not over because there is an idea and a belief that in fact this long privatisation process is taking place to make the property more worthless. In fact, there is one intention to make it easier for the privatisation process to reach resources owned by the Serbian state. We're talking about the Privatization Act today. Practically 25 years from the beginning of the process, we are at the beginning, and as nothing, this bill says how time is actually in the economic downturn. To go through Serbia today, what you might understand is that there is not a single economic process that has happened lately and that causes so much anger for the citizens of Serbia. There is no dilemma there, and it should be made clear that Serbian citizens recognise the state institutions involved in this process as frauds and individuals who participated in this process as well. We can start from the biggest place to the smallest, and we will hear hundreds of stories that do not have any economic logic, but are talking about a severe sense of injustice that has been done by the state to the citizens of Serbia. Our society has practically created and collected adequate resources for centuries, and our society has materialized in different forms. Sometimes it seems to have been a process that wasn't fair enough. If we remember after the end of World War II, the Serbian society collected adequate resources and all these assets were concentrated at the end of the 1980s in one of the titles of property. In theory, Serbian citizens were the owners of the entire property. Today after the unfinished privatisation process, we can say that one small part of our fellow citizens became the owner of all of that, and we never really know how much the conversion of property they paid. In the Serbian public, it is considered to be a very low cost of conversion. In Serbia, the privatisation process, as in other European countries, came with one single idea – to transfer property from social to private, but in time the privatisation process actually turned and became a privatisation by the sales model. We had two completely different models of privatisation, the first one if we opted out of the 1989 law, if we refer to the 1991-2001 law, the voucher and the 2000-to-day action model. In 2001, when we changed the law and the privatisation model, if you remember, these economic experts told us that by changing the law that is wrong and by passing a new law, we would allow Serbia to make it very easy to transfer ownership, the DBP increased, while preserving the level of employment at least at the level that existed until then. If you look at it today, you'll realize that the question is what was true. If one of the key subjects of the privatisation of the state and its interest, it has made a transfer of assets from one material state to cash and thus the money received has spent on subsidising the budget deficit, i.e. public spending that has come out of budget commitments and can, of course, ask the question of eligibility and distribution of these funds and, of course, the key question of the greed of our generation, which is the historical income, which is unrepeated, spent and left a generation and ours to settle budget deficits without having property. The privatisation process, as we have known since 2001, can be called privatisation. In fact, it was public spending financed from the sale of the Republic of Serbia's assets. Today we forget that first model of privatisation that we started in 1991 and that gave some different results. Perhaps the voucher and stock privatisation would not lead to an increase in the social gross product, it might not lead to an increase in the number of employees, because, to be objective, the privatisation process primarily does not serve, these are secondary effects. Voucher privatisation has been applied in almost all European countries. It's not 2:00. If you use a Czech or Russian model and a combination, you will see that almost all countries have done it. The little privatisation process that was done in Serbia, and the privatisation process started in 350 companies, ended in 18, is undeniable that there was a broader economic satisfaction compared to the 2011 model. All citizens of Serbia, if we had kept that model, would have owned companies or property. It is undeniable that, by selling stock on the stock market, we would achieve our own personal benefit and it is undeniable that today we would have a more developed market of securities than what we have and which are being shut down. There was the impression of those two thousand years that it was not social justice when a dozen apartments were purchased, a dozen cars in a smaller place in Serbia and that it was wrong, but according to the new model, it was okay to buy one or two villas on the Dedinj or one or two yachts. That is why the privatisation process has been seen as a major injustice in the Serbian people since 2001. The injustice struck the second factor in privatisation, Serbian citizens. Do you know how? All our families, all our generations have invested in the last 40 years in different funds, socialist, whatever. Whether they were called solidarity funds, housing funds, investment funds, they invested. After the privatisation process was completed, they almost got nothing. That's why they feel like losers of transition. The real winners of the transition are the ones who are the most responsible, and these are the civil servants. Of course, here very often, when it comes to privatisation, it's about your examples. A small part of people who regularly, fairly bought businesses are forgotten, respecting their investment money, creating and developing them, and whoever they think is the future of the development and growth of the Serbian economy. We need to change a model today. When you look at what the Government of the Republic is proposing today, it is my great pleasure that we have an anchor of law. That anchor of the law is contained in Article 2. The draft, where you say the privatisation process will be completed by 31.12.2016. I welcome you, Ministers, Government, in a public debate, whoever cut the deadline by one year, the completion of the privatisation process in Serbia will be completed in 31.12.2015. That's the point. The privatisation process must be completed. Mr. Minister, it is correct to say that these two laws have an indirect connection to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's the way it is. In the privatisation process there are still about 584 companies, of which 161 are in restructuring and now we have different data. You say $800m, you can read 750-760m euros, but cost the Republic of Serbia's budget. Not to mention the indirect benefits that the budget would achieve in its business. They're costing directly today. The reduction of this transfer certainly represents a significant effect of this law. In 20 years, as long as the privatisation process in Serbia takes place, 2288 companies entered the privatisation process and ended, 114 companies on average annually. The government says it will work four times more and will have four times more problems over the next year and a half than the government average in previous years. It will have technical, operational problems and it certainly speaks about the work of this government. Not to mention the difficult strategic decisions that are being made today... Mr. Minister, when you talk about techniques, or methods to enter the privatisation process, they can't really be different. They're as wide as rare when, and the reason for that should be to actually look at two facts. First, because we can't be, and we already are now, a country that has been lagging behind other European countries for 10 years and we need to speed up the privatisation process. Another key reason, because the huge number of enterprises in Serbia, not a business secret, has a negative capital. It could not have functioned for too long without different forms of subsidies from the Serbian state. In such conditions in which the Government wants to preserve social stability and to take care of each employee, and in enterprises in restructuring and in companies that will be privatised, practically this choice of models creates a chance for each company individually because of this situation that we are talking about to create a model that will protect if as many and the interests of the people who work there are possible. The bill contains clear control mechanisms and modes of operation, the responsibility of all participants, and I would not. In the proposal of Articles 61 to 64, you have practically free share of shares. I know that 200 euros, as planned, may not at this point be to close all the family trunks that exist in one exhausted economic people, but certainly I feel it as a wish for the government and for the people who have proposed this law to say thank you to all those who have invested and invested today in these companies, and at the same time as the obligation to take care of the works of this company, even if they are minority shareholders, but if we solve the problem that exists in the capital market and the securities market of value, it can be a much more significant institution. Like the other laws this government is proposing, this law is objectively not reformal. For the world economy, it is a reform for Serbian conditions. This law, whenever we talk about both this and future economic laws, we need to look at the situation both economically and socially in which the government proposes this law. If the macroeconomic parameters were different, perhaps, Mr. Minister, you too would propose a different law. In the time in which we live, in conditions where we have huge social challenges, an economically practical collapse, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed the best privatisation law that is possible at this time and therefore the SNS will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5807	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. People's MP Dragan Sutanovac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5808	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected ministry representatives, dear colleagues, the privatisation law we are talking about today, also on bankruptcy, are laws that are extremely important. Today, if we say that after 14 years, and even 25 years since the start of privatisation, we haven't done this job adequately, it doesn't just have to be the reason for bad laws, but simply some of our habits and the way we think. Mr. Minister, as a man who is not a member of any party, as someone who has spent a long time abroad and as someone who has analyzed our economic flows, I'm sure you'll agree that the most expensive thing in the world is war. There is no more expensive thing, of course, life doesn't count for economics, for economics, for development, for war. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, Serbia has gone through wars that have completely devastated our economy, destroyed our economy, put us in a position to have millions of people with jobs and unemployed and in a situation in which we welcome 2000 as a country that is completely devastated. What do I want to say? I want to say that Serbia owed around 14.3 billion euros in 2000. In 2012, Serbia, with rises and downs, owes 14.7 billion euros, and the government where you are sitting and the previous two governments that were practically the same, but reconstructed, has made a debt in the last two years of nearly seven billion euros, i.e. yesterday on television, it was said that we owe just over 20.5 billion euros, while in this year we owed about 517 million. The question is how is it possible that we owed 517 million if Minister Krstic said in a pre-election campaign, or signed a billion-euro new debt agreement? At the same time, between 2000 and 2012, with the privatisations as they were, wages in Serbia increased 10 times, exports increased four times and GDP three times. I urge you to say, as a responsible man, on which businesses you base today's situation in Serbia and are all these privatisations really as bad as your colleagues who have regretted in the 1990s are trying to show them? Who today are the companies and companies that pay the most tax in Serbia, and is it precisely the companies that are privatised at the time of that, as colleagues say, of the bad law, which led these companies today to be the bearers of Serbia's economic development, because without these companies, our economic situation would be much worse? What's also worrying, for two years we've been hearing here that without foreign investors we can't continue to develop our economy, economy and society. This year we have hundreds of millions of euros in foreign investment, and in 2011, which was a bad year for the government, we had almost 1.8 billion euros in foreign investment and we were dissatisfied. We believe that this result that today is trying to be filtered, with a new way of calculating in the National Bank of Serbia, to show that nearly 500m euros in foreign investment, which is not true, should actually be yours, as Minister of Business and tomorrow as finance minister, is absolutely the biggest problem. You've said something here that we can really think of right now as flat-rate, not because you say it, but because government representatives tell us other numbers every once in a while. So, I ask you that as a man who will lead Serbian finances, I believe that you will be elected, as a man who leads the economy, you tell us how many people do it today in the public sector, or how many people today do it by receiving a salary from the budget, and how many people do it in that public sector that is self-income? To separate these two things, because it is obvious that they are being manipulated, because it is impossible for that amount of people to work in the public sector, that is, there are those who work in the income sector to fall into the public sector, but far from getting paid from the budget. Also, what happened in Serbia from 2012 to 2014, which is that we never had any higher taxes. The tax on profits has been increased 50%, VAT has been increased by about 12%, and the budget gap is enormously large and is completely out of line with the intervention of Serbian citizens and what we are burdening both the economy and the employees today. What you said, whether it's a flat-rate number or not, I'd like you to explicitly tell us, if you can't today, then in writing, 800m euros a year, the state pays for losers. We heard a 600 million-dollar number, we heard 700 million. How many people are really employed in these companies, for which our country, or budget, or citizens of Serbia, who pay taxes, are giving out money? How much is it, in fact, minimum earnings and to see if it's worth it if such businesses exist as such, or if it's worth giving people minimum profits, and for these companies, find a way to free them from the state. We heard there was a proposal by the prime minister to even give two annual losses, which is about 204m euros, someone who would take over Sartid, and continue to work. Gentlemen, 204m euros is an extremely large sum of money. I remind you that it was sold in time for 20 and a few million, and it was coming and in its time it was the largest taxpayer in Serbia and the largest exporter, and it came to a situation that a large number of countries in the world had experienced, the collapse of the construction industry and thus the construction industry, and we are now in a position to cost us 102m euros today. How many people work at Sartide, what is the average salary, and is it possible that these 102m euros can't have a decent life or why we're in a position to offer someone 204 million, so two years of loss? What I also want to ask you as Minister of Business, and tomorrow as Minister of Finance, concerns our international contracts that we have concluded, which will give someone tomorrow the privilege of privatising and using goods belonging to the state of Serbia, or to all citizens of Serbia. What does that mean? It means that there are contracts like with the Emirates that tomorrow, based on that contract, private companies from the Emirates can appear who will have privileged status in relation to the companies that came from Western or eastern countries and who invested big money here and bought our businesses for big money. It's incorrect, absolutely incorrect, that all privatisations were bad. What's the obvious problem here, and I listen very carefully, is that there's some regret about the youth of the '90s. When it comes to how so many people worked in my place, it's a complete lie, because in 2000, right after the war, the average salary in Serbia wasn't even 50 marks, people had jobs, they had jobs, they went to work, they had nothing to do. We forget that we had sanctions, that we poured fuel out of plastic bottles, we forget what was going on in 2000. But again, if we take to compare, Serbia's debt then was 14.3 billion, in 2012, 14.7 and today is 20.7. So nearly six and more billion euros were made, my dear friends, in two years' time. Still, I say, we don't know what happened to this debt signed by Minister Krstic, who resigned. It may have been the reason he resigned, since there's obviously some kind of bill that's not clear. I'm curious. You said there was a possibility of a transfer of capital without compensation. Who's gonna decide that? In what way? I'm not one of those people who thinks that all people who participate in the privatisation process and the Agency are people who are corrupt, people who are prone to corrupt activities. On the contrary, we know that you come from a world where there are tax collectors who can negotiate on behalf of the state with taxpayers. I believe in people who work in countries. I have complete confidence that there are people ready and able to work that kind of economy on behalf of our country. Of course there should be control. Unfortunately, this law, in some ways, makes it impossible. For what? Because you yourself, as a promoter, have come from not thinking personally, but you as a system, unfairly, so you can't get into the privatisation arrangements. It is something that sends a very bad signal to us as MPs, because you do not obviously trust yourself, but I also trust investors who are wondering why they cannot in this way negotiate those jobs for which there is obviously no interest, above all, in Serbia itself. We are at one point when Serbia practically came to the bottom. This is the point of borrowing the Serbian government and never has the Serbian government, within such short notice, been in debt. Unfortunately, there is no economic activity that can serve such a high debt. You've announced a reduction in pensions and salaries by 10% and no more dinars. To those who have a pension of 6,000 dinars it will be as big as a house, those 600 dinars. Whoever has a salary of 14,000 dinars will be as big as his house. I don't know if you have any awareness of the way ordinary people in Serbia live, who earned their pensions and why anyone would cut them down. At the same time, we have in the structure of the state those who work in the public sector who have four or five times your salary. You are, as resolute minister, competent, and they have five times the salary of yours. I've suggested here, someone will say it's demagogy, someone that populism, if we can't, we don't have the strength, we don't have a strong economy, to raise a minimumer in Serbia, let's try to in this public sector, where many people work, I don't know how much, limit the highest salary. Let's say it's as high a salary as the President of the Republic has, and management contracts with those people who are going to run the companies tomorrow and who, on the basis of their merits and the profits that the company makes, are going to get bonuses that are going to be satisfactory. It is unnatural for someone to have a salary of 400,000 dinars or 500,000 dinars, and his company is the biggest loser in Serbia. At the same time you have a salary, I don't know if you're still getting paid here, but the Minister of Business's salary is 102,000, 103,000 dinars. Does it make any sense that the director of "Dunava" receives 450,000 dinars, has a representation, has all the conditions for working better than you do, I know that as an ex-worker, and that today we sanction those who have a salary of 26,000 dinars by charging them 10% of the tax on that salary, which is said to be Serbian anyway, a church that is hard to live in anywhere in Serbia, especially in Belgrade. On the other hand, there is a problem with regional development. I'm taking the opportunity to speak to you, since you've never been to the Assembly before. I think you have the opportunity, too, to do a reform on privatisation and public sector employees. Today, we public sector employees pay taxes to the state, and most of the salary tax goes to the local self-government where we live. What does that mean? It means that those people living in municipalities where there are no more or less MPs, where there are no hospitals, universities, courts, police, armies, no income based on pay taxes from us that they support. If you want to help regional development of Serbia, if you want to help all these people who speak here today with a set, remember what it was in the 1990s and those combinations that worked and were devastated completely, let's see if we can get these sums of money that flowed to Belgrade today as local self-government, so Nishu, Novi Sad, etc. to divide it into the number of inhabitants of these municipalities. I, when I pay taxes and all of us here, we get paid on the grounds that some citizens in all of Serbia pay taxes. Why does their local self-government not return that money, but return only to those self-governments where we live, or do we do business? It's an extremely important thing. If you want to develop regionally throughout Serbia, if you want to see where these privatisations are worst passed, it is precisely in those municipalities where there is no adequate state apparatus and from which they cannot be charged. There are a number of things, I've opened up and I'm taking the opportunity to welcome you first and see and ask you a few things, I'm interested in you to answer us specifically what is a transfer of capital without compensation? Who's going to arrange it in both ways and if they can, why can't certain companies be sold in agreement? I know that specifically in Switzerland if you transfer a company from another country, you have high incomes you can agree with the tax administration to keep your taxes lower than the one that's been accepted. That's what I'm for. I fully support that people from the state have the freedom to do their job in favour of the state at the same time that the police, the prosecution, the various inspections are checking. I don't think it's wise for us here as MPs to accuse each other of anything, unless the prosecution, the police or the courts have reached any conclusion or reached certain verdicts. Mr. Minister, it won't be easy for you and it's not easy for you in this position. In this short time, you have nothing to be proud of, but the results of the governments where your colleagues were sitting are devastating. The Ministry of Finance is even worse. Mr. Krstic will remain remembered as the minister who raised all taxes, and you will start as a minister who has reduced all salaries. From the start, you'll have a problem if you don't find an adequate way to solve problems on the income side first, how to hire people and how to make an adequate product that can be sold, and we can discuss it the same way, is it a real course of dinars that can help develop Serbian economy or not? Is this course that exists contributing to exports from Serbia or not helping importers? If you don't think about it, I think we're going to get into an even bigger problem that we're going to have a hard time getting out of. I want to appeal to you, since there is obviously one great ignorance, ignorance, a desire to bypass something, there are companies in Serbia that can work extremely well. They had major imports by 2012, in the last two years it's worse, in some and significantly worse. I'm talking about defense industry companies. When you say that these are the companies that owe the most tax, then we must be aware that these are enterprises that were completely destroyed in 1999 and that the state, except in some markets, had invested these companies by 2012. Today certain lines are being opened thanks to activities that were up to 2012, but I ask you to pay attention to your colleagues and try to find a way to help this branch of the economy, which is over 90% export-oriented. "First Partizan" from Užica exports about 97% of its products. At this price of the euro, believe me, it is an extraordinary success. Do not allow the lack of understanding of such a factory to be hit by a tax policy where there is a risk that they practically disappear, and they have products that can be exported and are primarily export-oriented. Thank you, and I expect an answer. You've been talking all afternoon, I believe you've got your answers saved.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5809	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5810	What particularly surprised me and irritated me was one sentence from a fellow speaker – there is no business activity that can cover such a debt. Why didn't you pursue such an idea and such a policy when you increased wages in the public sector and pensions? Why didn't you make sure there was no business activity that could cover a 68% salary increase in public enterprises? Then why didn't you run politics and the idea that there was no business activity to raise your pensions by 72%, completely unrealistic? There's the answer to where the new debts are. There's an answer to where the state of our public finances is. What kind of extra enlightenment is that? What kind of an additional idea is that? Then you turned your hand to Mirko Cvetkovic, when he told the government – where does this unreal and unfounded increase in wages in the public sector and pensions lead? You told him what he knows. There are stenograms from the government. You and some other colleagues in the government. Now she's an after-brainser. There is now no basis for economic activity. When it comes to public sector wages, yes, they're rudely large. They're rudely big, but I'd rather have heard it here in 2010 and 2011, how the directors of public enterprises had less salaries than ministers, so that the anomaly is what was inherited in 2012. But that's not there, there's no limit. The previous government at least had the courage to say, yes, we have a limit to 160,000 dinars. The previous government at least made a decision to halt employment in the public sector, to make a list of public sector employees. Has the government done so by 2012? Of course not, because it was a party front and a place where party staffs were employed. This sends a clear message that the DS is against workers in Serbia, that it is against 88,000 workers working in 584 companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, that it is against 58,000 people working in these 160 firms in restructuring, because if this law had been in force so far it would have been a good solution to the fate of those people, production would continue, people would work, earn and have their own salary. He hasn't solved it. You want to maintain such a principle that people in Serbia either will not work or will be at the expense of the budget. It's unsustainable. That is why it is clear that it is against employment and that it is against workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5811	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5812	Sad is the way you run the congregation. This is not how the congregation is run. Dear colleague Babic doesn't understand, and I'm not angry. Mr. Granny, if you find that I am, since you mentioned me personally... (President: Mr. Shutanovac, do not speak to the People's Messenger personally. ) If Mr Babic finds out that I said something in government against Mirko Cvetkovic, I will apologize publicly to Mirko and to all of you. If he doesn't find... You are the man who speaks the saddest and saddest lies ever spoken in this congregation. On the other hand, I'm not sorry, believe me for one moment, that we're these miserable pensions that you're about to reduce. On the contrary, I'm glad. I'm absolutely glad. If we had continued our economic activity as in 2012, today Serbia would have been much, much better. The debts you have made and which are recordable, this is the result of the inability of the government's work living in modellings in Belgrade on water, in the Belgrade-Solun channel, in some imaginary policies in which all citizens in Serbia will feel a very, very large drop in standards since September. Once you take away 10% of your pension from your pension, you take away the peasant who produces what the pensioner buys. So when you say that we are against workers and against peasants, you speak notorious false, shameless, but I am sure that sooner or later, both workers and peasants will understand, so they will already show you what they think of your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5813	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5814	When the arguments disappear, then personal insults begin. It doesn't matter, it's more about who dumps them and who uses them. Here, we saw and heard something more about "Riplia", 2012, 2011, honey and milk flowing in Serbia, phenomenal industrial activity, everything works, everything works, only 400,000 people lost their jobs. So how? Well, here's why the previous speaker speaks against the workers, because on the one hand he left people at work, and the fact is that from 2008 to 2012, 358,000 people were out of work with this phenomenal economic activity. I don't deal with Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic because he's not here, but I don't deal with it from the time the government's official stance was until 2012 – Serbia is statistically out of the crisis, but its citizens won't feel it. Well, for nothing, we're out of the crisis, if the citizens won't feel like they're out of the crisis. That's why we're talking about facts. If all this had been so great and wonderful until 2012, people wouldn't have decided to change. They wouldn't say that. That's enough. Despite such media torture, political torture, everything we've been exposed to as the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, we would not have won the elections if everything had been so wonderful and great, but don't speak with the same principle. If there's a question now that I'm going to ask again, there's no business activity that can cover that kind of debt, and I'd be happy to raise our salaries and pensions, but there's no foundation, unseriously, it's diletant to raise expenses, if there's no income. This is how you put a stone around the neck of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The dilettane management of the economy was until 2012. Insincere, irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5815	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5816	Article 107, dignity of the Assembly. It's terrible when such untruths are brought forth, it really offends the dignity of the Parliament and of all of us here MPs. To discuss economic activity, only in the first quarter of 2012 closed 14.260 private companies. What business activity was there? What are we talking about? That's why I'm advertising this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you were obliged to warn him when someone was making such terrible lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5817	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The government minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic, called for the word. You didn't mention Mr. Sutanovac, and the minister has an advantage. Only if you answer the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, so please report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5818	Article 107 has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5819	You can't have the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5820	We're the second parliamentary group, your MP group, he broke it himself for what he was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5821	Mr. Sutanovac, please look at the Rules of Procedure. You can't pick up the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5822	Article 106. Give me back my time, Mr. Becic, you're taking my skills, so I don't say you steal time every time, give it back to zero. Gentlemen, the fact that this government has provided foreign investment in this year of hundreds of millions of euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5823	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sutanovac? Article 106 is – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5824	Right, that's just what Babic missed, the agenda point. That's right, thank you for quoting. Give me my time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5825	Mr. Babic spoke, he was entitled to a replica, and he has the right to speak in the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5826	Mr. Babic was completely wrong and he wasn't talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5827	It's not worth convincing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5828	Igor, don't do this. It's not correct, so why are you doing it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5829	Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5830	I'm not doing anything, I'm sorry. Please, take care of it. (President: Be my guest, Mr. Minister. You'll get a chance to replicate to me, here's a minute. I'm only sorry that I didn't learn stenography in high school to record all the thoughts you said. There are very good thoughts, there are a few things that I wanted to answer, and there are a few things that I wanted to ask you to organise special discussions, if we are able to talk about it, because they belong more to a discussion that would be appropriate to consider budget rebalances, budgets for several years, i.e. a calm analysis of the cause of the economic situation in which we are located and the paths of exit. I'm sure I'll try to create a document that will be the subject of this debate, that it is not purely political but based on an analysis that will serve everyone as a basis to observe what happened from the beginning of the crisis to today, how we came here where we are and what our ways of getting out are. If you please, only on the subject of a few comments. I think my team, the task force that's been doing these laws and today's discussion where no one has mentioned that the previous law was so bad, nor have we assessed that all privatisations were bad. Far from that, we have said that 2.228 privatisation is complete, that the measure of failure is not in what is well done but that the result of these processes is 584 companies that are located in the portal foil of the Privatisation Agency, which are unable to implement. We'll send you a special piece of paper that analytically explains the $800 million we're talking about. Just one simple analysis, the minimum personal incomes of 100,000 people working in these companies, that's about 3,000 euros a year gross wages with taxes and contributions, that's about 200,300 million to you. Unpaid municipal tax, natural gas, electricity, etc., the debts of "Srbigas" relating to enterprises in restructuring problems are about 200 to 300m euros, not to mention debts for spent electricity and everything else. It's very easy to get that number and we'll send you the exact analysis that says it. If we add to that the lost newly created value, if these 100,000 people worked and earned a gross salary of about 400, 500 euros, a net salary of about 300 euros, then you'll get much higher amounts. If we look at the effect of this on the existence of large and growing amounts of loans that are not being serviced and the spread of the atmosphere of hopelessness, unemployment, etc., we can talk about this separately, then I think the positive effects of removing this problem are enormous. It's a reason to pass this law, to clean up just something that's really a hindrance on our way forward. It's less important, although I think the political debate about it seems to be important, it's less important how we came about, it's much more important how we look for a way out of this situation. The second thing I wanted to say, very important, is that we don't go into topics that aren't here on the key line. For me, regional development issues are crucial and often coincide with company restructuring issues. Today you have heard several very documented exhibitions of various political parties here about how enterprises in the restructuring of missed privatisation and problems have multiple negative effects, meaning that there were in fact enterprises that are a large part of employment in some regions and regions. You know, when the problem is Simpa, it's not just Simpa, it's the problem of the whole city and the whole region. Similarly, he refers to the Cup, as his colleague argued, and the like applies to both Triestenik and many others. Therefore, solving these problems will go hand in hand, together with addressing regional development, infrastructure and everything else. Thirdly, I wanted to mention very importantly, I think these floods have shown that the economic resources that are not being used have almost the same effect as the direct damage that occurred in these floods. So, we've had 700 million direct damages on the floods, although 800m euros in economic losses have been estimated, because the economy stands, because the crops are lost, because the infrastructure of the company and everything else will be lost. The same thing applies to enterprises in restructuring. The important thing is, we haven't talked much about the political aspects of these processes today, we're leaving it for some next debate, but I just want to give one answer to the existence of a model of capital transfer without compensation. First, we left it because this law aims to complete the privatisation of social property with the deadline that we put into law and there is theoretically the possibility that compensation is still being made, i.e. the division of actions without compensation to employees. How significant this will be in absolute terms, it is less important, but it is important to preserve that principle. Secondly, it's also very important that we haven't explained much so far, which is that measures to stimulate new investors, attracting new investors can be done in a number of ways. The way he's been dominant for the past few years is to give cash stimulation, to stimulate jobs. That's a good way, but that way is quite expensive and hitting on something that's very limited to us, which is free resources in the budget. We will continue this way within our capabilities, but we want to activate other ways. Another way is to use infrastructure and other benefits of reforming the economic system, that investors will come because it is well invested in Serbia, not because they will have to spend funds to compensate for bad regional or city laws. Examples of successful cities, such as Indjia, such as Stara Pazova, etc., show that where at the municipal level things work well, investors come much earlier, much earlier and much more require those places to invest, rather than places where there are problems. Some of these problems are objective and some are subjective, but the fact is that investors are looking for something that is not just cash, but conditions are local. Thirdly, very important, these are the latest examples of privatisation of the agreement on understanding and investor intention that sometimes it is better to use non-financial incentives to achieve those things in the programme or in the privatisation contract that we previously left without such support. To be precise, mass privatisations made in the early 2000s had the conditions of increasing production and increasing employment. There were no stimulations, but only criminal provisions that often resulted in the cancellation of the privatisation and termination contracts. Transferring property as a stimulation is one of the best ways to make investors interested in achieving the plan they have committed to. What does that mean? The state can write off its obligations to the company and give, under the name of all foreign investors as a precondition for investment, but can also the same amount, let's say 100m euros, to convert into an equivalent, to capital, and use that capital as an incentive to support employment. So, something which is otherwise a non-refundable claim to convert into assets and that property is used to, say, per tranche, five years by 20%, after achieving the results of the employment, production and export, give the foreign investor what will often be linked to its investment and production, not just by employment and exports, as I have mentioned so far. Therefore, this is the meaning of the provision, to preserve the transfer of capital without compensation, as a possibility where the law will allow, but very transparently, to be used as a means of stimulating, instead of cash or similarity. So, in other words, if the alternative is to give 6,000 euros per job, or to give 2,000 euros per job, 2,000 euros through the benefits of local infrastructure, and 2,000 euros through the transfer of something that is not otherwise cash, that is something that will be specified by the law that will go into fruit with this law, which will be the new law on stimulating and attracting investors, which we expect to give in the assembly debate in one two months, approximately, when we get to do exactly everything. You will have the opportunity to participate in the preparation of this law. So that's the point. The bottom line is that we allow flexibility, that it be explicitly written in the proposals of the Privatisation Agency, explicitly approved by the ministry and subject to public insight and insight into the criticisms of everyone in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5831	Thank you. Ambassador Sutanovac, on what grounds? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Ask the minister. ) The minister does not hold meetings and gives no replicas. I'm sorry, I don't write the laws, you can't get the word. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: We had a debate between the minister and me personally. I've been listening to the debate all along, but the debate isn't a straight line. I'm so sorry. I suppose, but when you're the chairman, don't respect the Rules of Procedure... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: Is there such fear here from the words spoken by the opposition? You took the word now and you didn't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5832	What's with all the fear? Two minutes of replicas to speak to the minister, I have a chance. For the first time, a man appeared in the congregation and addressed me. Ask him. He spoke to me personally. Ask the gentleman. Here, if he says he's not, I won't. Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5833	It's been 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5834	You gave me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5836	You're the heart. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you see the torture here in parliament. There's little of us, but apparently our voice can't be heard. First, let me ask you not to cut your salary to your colleagues sitting with you. If there is any surplus, reduce your week's work to those who are surpluses, and give them a lower wage. It doesn't have to take a week, five days, four days. Give them a lower salary, and these people who sit here today and listen to phenomenal exposure deserve a raise, not a cut in wages. The other thing, I don't know if you know, Serbia is a country, probably one of the few, in which profit does not go into the total income of citizens. So, what people earn by their work pays another tax at the end of the year, if they transfer two million, and those who privatise these companies draw an unprecedented profit. Their profits are taxed only by those 15%. There's money you should be looking for on the income side, which the government has been incompetent to date, but I trust you that you will be more capable than all the ministers who have been since 2012. Here to find money to pay for those people who sit around here all day listening, I believe, things they couldn't assume they'd hear. Thank you. Thank you, Maya, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5837	Otherwise, let me tell you, the minister doesn't run the sessions, you know that as an MP, but out of respect for the minister and for you who think that someone is afraid of publicly spoken words, I've allowed a replica past the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Well, you were a little afraid, you didn't care a bit, but... I can't hear this, it's a throw. Turn off the microphone. The word is Alexander Senic, the next registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5838	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, we all agree that it is necessary to privatise the other nearly 600 companies and solve the problem of about 90,000 employees, but I personally have an objection to the accuracy and transparency that is foreseen, i.e. It is not foreseen by this law. The precision relating to certain provisions of the law, and transparency, that the privatisation process, especially when it comes to the establishment or achievement of a strategic partnership, does not entail transparency in the process at all. For example, Article 26 defines that the public call contains data of importance for the implementation of the procedure. Who defines and by what criteria what are the data of importance for conducting the procedure? Why is this article and Article 26's position not defined, for example, by Article 2(2)? that the public call must contain the business name of the privatisation entity, data on the structure of the value of the capital, description and value of the capital of the assets etc? So I repeat or ask the question again – who defines what the public call contains, i.e. What are the data of importance for the implementation of the privatisation procedure in public call? Article 38 of the Law governing the entry into force of the contract on the sale of capital has defined that the receiver may be the person who meets the prescribed conditions for the buyer of capital. So, as defined, he can – and he doesn't have to. Which means that if someone doesn't meet the conditions of being a buyer of capital, they can indirectly come to buy a company. We have predicted by amendment that the receiver can only be a face, i.e. the only person who fulfils the prescribed conditions for the buyer of capital. So, another inaccuracy in the bill. In the strategic partnership, when it comes to implementation, what was done to protect trustees' rights? So the law is not intended, or at least we haven't found, that the rights of other creditors are protected, so those who don't participate in the strategic partnership. We have given an amendment that provides for the remaining trusts of the privatisation entity to be settled, and in case they are not settled, it is necessary to agree on the way of their settlement when a strategic partnership is established. Finally, as far as transparency is concerned, it is not intended for a strategic partnership agreement to be published anywhere, but only for the parties to the agreement to regulate their strategic partnership. So that leaves one great opportunity for abuse. This leaves the possibility of getting a new case called Etihad. I'm interested in, for example, Mr. Minister, did you personally see that contract? As we receive various information, according to some information under the contract, Serbia is obliged to pay off some of the first six months of this year's 62m euros. I'm not saying it's true, but because, here, August 1st is the year since the signature of the Ethyhad contract, we haven't seen that contract yet, we don't know what it contains, we can guess if it's true or not. So, we predicted that the strategic partnership agreement, of course with the amendment that we have made, should be made mandatory on the official website of the Privatisation Agency and the Government of the Republic of Serbia within three days of the signing day. We believe that transparency in the work is necessary in order not to have the case "Etihad" which remains a mystery and enigma in our legal system. We as the highest legislative body that has a control and control role over the government's work have not been informed about, for example, what does the Ethyhad contract contain, even asking whether it really exists? So, as we have the theory that Serbia is losing under the 62m-euro contract, there is also a new thesis that the contract is not even signed, but that there is only a pre-contract. We have an announcement from all representatives, or almost all representatives from the government and the former and present that the contract will be announced first by February 20th, until 28th, until the end of the election campaign, and then in May you say that as a minister of the economy, you did not find that contract in the head of the ministry. Therefore, it is necessary that both in the Privatisation Act and in the amendments to the Law on the bankruptcy of a clause that prevents corruption, therefore, in accordance with the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency and to increase the accuracy of certain provisions that we have made by making certain amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5839	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5840	Honorable presidents, respected colleagues, respected ministers, all day long I have been following the discussion of the Privatisation Act with great attention as an industrialist, as one major businessman. I really have to pay great compliments to the law. For the first time since 2000, this law has given hope here that something that has been done against the Constitution will finally stand in the way of what has been done, and this is, in my opinion, a restructuring of ten, twelve years, etc. There's a restructuring in Germany where I've lived and worked for a long time, but it takes three to six months, so the company can add up a minus balance, plus balance, a claim obligation, and within no longer than six months finds a solution to getting out of the crisis and whether it can stand on its feet or go bankrupt. But, unfortunately, here's where we came from. For those who may not know about the public, I am the founder of a large party until recently and was at the top of the party in three terms as the sole businessman. That's exactly the same party I left in 2002 for one single reason because of a poor model of privatisation. Then I rebelled and called that it would be a cemetery, not a privatisation of the Serbian economy, which unfortunately came to pass. The very fact that at that time, they sold three sugars for three dollars, contrary to the law there was no law at that time like you today, by changing and supplementing this law, allowed anyone who wanted to participate in privatisation through a public invitation. The simplest thing is that he doesn't need any party ties or privileges, that he doesn't have any function, but simply if he has capital he knows and knows enough to write a letter of intent and to guide how it's written and amended by the law we're discussing today, the Privatisation Act. He's really looking forward to it, and I'm grateful that you're going with this law, or that we're going to correct a great injustice with this law, and I'd say a violation of the Constitution. Under the Constitution, all economic operators have the same rights and obligations. Unfortunately it wasn't so in this case it was, because someone contrary to the Constitution gave someone the right to ten, twelve years' pay taxes, not pay contributions, not pay debts. My company that works and has huge claims, but so far I haven't been able to sue companies in restructuring. I must briefly remind the MPs, in 2008, all received one warning from all MPs, referring to the privatisation of a great giant in Šumadia, which is the flag in Kragujevac, where one appeal was then made and the application that Fiat is not sold as sold. At that time, no public invitation was issued as provided for in your request, the honourable ministers, but someone agreed under the grain and made a caucus contract in which no one today knows what it says in that contract. Today we have a situation where 80 kilometers from Kragujevac, Sartid is crying out for the buyer, for the sale of the tin. The Fiat, unfortunately, does not buy the Lim, although the flag when it produced the fiyate model of the full, worked 100% of that sheet. So, one such privatisation without a public call to participate in other car companies has probably led to such a bad contract, so today we have a situation that we have destroyed over 25,000 jobs in Serbia, starts from Somboro to Autostakla Panchevo, and from the famous large giant DMB metal complex where engines in Belgrade worked, etc., where several thousand workers are out of work, to work today only 2,000 workers, and what I know even there are taxes and contributions must be paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia. What good do we have there? I wouldn't say anything. Why? A customs-free zone. No VAT, no customs, no nothing. If no "Fiat" is sold accidentally in Serbia itself to pay citizens, to pay VAT, the Republic of Serbia has absolutely no use. We then warned in 2008, so we said holding a dinar course in January 2010 of 210 million, from the sale of NIS 400 million. This was listed and spent for two months, and right after that, we received 500m euros from the IMF, or then the government, then thank God the former regime, from the IMF. We warned them then that it was the most expensive government and we said Serbia would be worth how much it would produce. And today, unfortunately, we are in an extremely difficult situation. I am deeply convinced that this government will persist on what is necessary, and this is a fierce and harsh fight against crime, bribery and corruption. For these reasons, I am exactly, as president of the Movement for Business Rebirth of Serbia in a coalition with the largest and strongest SNS party. I thank them for giving me the opportunity to do this for my nine grandchildren, and then for my four children, and for all of Serbia as an experienced businessman, we gathered over six years ago and in 2008 more than 700 proven prominent, successful businessmen, farmers, entrepreneurs, agronomists, engineers, technicians and doctors of sciences from various structures. For more than a year and a half, we have been searching for what would be the best projects that could employ Serbia, because whoever employs Serbia has solved all the problems of Serbia, without increasing GDP, for you, Mr. Minister, I don't need to translate and interpret it. There is no increase in national income or real preservation of national currency, so our projects are designed to build a thousand fruit and vegetable plantations in the first two years. So, 50 million seedlings for this Serbia to plant, imagine colleagues living inside, what does 50 million seedlings mean? That means 50 million seedlings cost 75 million if it's a home fruit. If it's an imported orchard from Poland or Italy, it's only 150 million. In two years, it's insensitive to our budget, and we even have the right credit for these projects. Three seedlings for the next 25 to 40 years, vines, produce and increase only gross products through raw materials of 3 to 3.5 billion, and if they do not apply the agrotechnical measures well, and 3.5 billion if they apply the agrotechnical measures well. In addition to this, we are scheduled to build thousands of small and large cattle farms across Serbia, we have recorded all of Serbia, we have a good database on the ground with which capacities are available in districts, cities, municipalities. That way we stop the further import of 83% of pig meat, as unfortunately as it has been in the last few years. Serbia that once had a gold base, the dinar then had a gold base and for the first time, and only then was it convertable, and at that time we provided, or the then government ensured the convergence by exporting dry prosciuttoes, pears, plums, apples, because then the coolants did not exist. In this way, by building more than a thousand farms, smaller farms across Serbia, conditions are created that several hundred meat processing factories such as the famous brand "Goldiborac", which is unfortunately imported from Argentina's meat, are packaged, made by a great brand and its dry meat products are sold on our market and on the Russian market and even European market from 30 to 35 euros per kilogram. Only in this way, through the highest possible degree of processing of agricultural raw materials, can a major difference be achieved, hire a large number of unemployed and increase the national income of our troubled poor Serbia. I wouldn't spread this topic about the project and the programme, so don't be afraid of your former colleagues from my former party, Serbia has hope and how, Serbia has a good future, we're on the right track. If the Serbian Prime Minister persists, and I am confident that he will, because he is as stubborn as I am, Serbia will light up in the shortest time and we will start Serbia and Serbia will finally stand in the way, or we will stop the departure of young talents that go after bread, unfortunately, and continue. In this way, creating and increasing national income, increasing the standard, will create conditions to improve life in the country again and thus, again what threatens Serbia, which is a white plague, to start giving birth, and thus Serbia's birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5841	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I'm going to try to speak by language of numbers about the new law on privatisation and explain to the citizens why the new law is being passed. The new law is passed because the existing law has caused very bad effects on the Serbian economy. So if we speak language numbers according to the privatisation agency, from 2001 to today, you had a total of 28 successful privatisations. What does a relatively successful privatisation mean? This means that the buyer of capital did not turn the factory into an apple warehouse or a car salon, but continued production and continued, allowing workers to be paid wages. Such companies have a total of 28 companies with a letter and number since 2001 when the existing Privatisation Act was adopted and there would be no confusion, these are the following companies: "Impol Seval" Sevojno, "Zdravlje" Leskovac, "South Banat" Bela Church, Cementara "Kosjerić", Cementara "Novi Popovac", Duvanska Industry Vranj, DIN, Factory of Duvana Nis, Industry of Frozen Foods "Frikom" Padinska Skela Belgrade, "Merima" Kruševac, "Gosa" Smederevska Palanka, "Sava Kovacevic" Vrbas, "Dusan Petronijevic" Kruševac, "Colubara gas concrete" Vreci, "8. Mart" Sutotica, a.d. "Rudnik" Rudnik, a.d. "JugoTransport" Kruševac, "Gosa montage" Velika Plana, a.d. "Gornja Trepča" Gornja Trepča, "Electroremont" Subotica, "Bućnost" Bačka Palanka, "Rad Zastava" Kragujevac, "Mor Stevens Audit and Accounting" DOO Belgrade, "Electroremont" to Belgrade, a.d. "Technika" Vršac, a.d. "Happy Gudulić" Užice, a.d. "Proleter" Ivanica, a.d. "Vino Župa" Aleksandrovac, a.d. "Plastika" Nova Varoš. All other privatisations since 2001 have been completely unsuccessful from a purely economic point of view, and have been unsuccessful because the 2001 Privatisation Act was bad. The opposition colleagues tried to take responsibility for the poor Privatisation Act at the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, which was formed in early 2004, but forgot to say that the government that proposed amendments and additions to the 2004 Privatisation Act did not in fact alter one provision of the 2001 Privatisation Act, which was, in my opinion, very bad and which is the cause of many bad privatisations in Serbia, which is that the initial price of social capital sales was 20% of the company's book value, which was many times less than the market value of that capital. That's one thing. The second thing, the new Privatisation Act will finally solve this or that way the company's restructuring problem and remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the government has not invented a restructuring process, so again, if we speak in the language of numbers. In 2002, four companies were introduced into restructuring, no restructuring process was completed. In 2003 21 companies, in 2004, 16 companies, in 2005, 14 companies, in 2006, seven, in 2007, two, in 2008, eight, and now be careful how the number of enterprises in restructuring, in 2008, so, eight, 2009, 14, 2010, 82, 2011, 28, ten and catastrophic, in the opinion of the opposition, in 2013, only two enterprises in restructuring, 19 ended and in 2014 only two enterprises in restructuring, and two companies completed the restructuring process. So, from 2012 to 2014, you had a significant shift in the resolution of the company's restructuring problem by ending the restructuring process for only two years in 21 companies, which is twice as many as all the completed restructuring procedures starting from 2002 to 2012. So that's official data. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an action plan in June 2013 to end the restructuring of 179 enterprises in restructuring, and according to that action plan for 26 companies was to immediately suspend or end restructuring or launch a bankruptcy procedure, and a solution for 153 companies was to be found in another way. Of these 26 for seven, no restructuring has been suspended, or restructuring has not been completed because not all conditions have been met. Based on the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, four new restructuring decisions for Galenika, Politika, Trajal and Elektro Porcelan were made in 2013 and 2014, so according to the privatisation agency, 162 companies are currently in restructuring. I think, Mr. Minister, that number may not agree with the number of enterprises in restructuring listed in the Privatisation Law proposal because, if I'm not mistaken, 161 companies. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because the numbers are inexorable. So the figures say that the governments in Serbia have indeed shown their readiness since 2012 to finally solve the company's restructuring problem and the proposal for a new law on privatisation is an attempt by the government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the poor economic policy implemented by all the governments of the Republic of Serbia from 2001 to 2012. Will 161 or 162 companies be found for all companies, will an ideal solution be found for all companies? No, but some solution will be found, and the Serbian economy will finally come to the opportunity to stand on healthy feet with this privatisation law. Will she be on her healthy feet in two months or six months? No, because problems have been generated for years and what has been generated for years can't be cured overnight, but it's a great honor for this government to go on its own systematically to try to solve the company's restructuring problem. As for the number, i.e. the statistics of privatised enterprises, this statistics is devastating for all governments that managed this country from 2001 to 2012. So, the statistics of privatised companies say the following - 220 companies were sold in 2002, in 2003 709, in 2004, 238, in 2005, 221, in 2006, 235, in 2007 294, in 2008 240, in 2009, 76, in 2010, 27, in 2011, three, three and in 2013, in 2014. The number of terminations of privatisation contracts is also devastating for all governments that have managed this country since 2001. In 2003 24 privatisation contracts were terminated, in 2004, 90, in 2005, 75, in 2006, 56, in 2007, 69, in 2008, 73, in 2009, 90, in 2010, 128, in 2011 41, in 2012, 25, in 2013 12 and in 2014 one. Therefore, the number of terminations of privatisation contracts, and the contracts were terminated because the buyers of capital did not respect contractual obligations, says that the existing Privatisation Act is clearly bad. It would be good for opposition colleagues to propose an alternative to the existing law. They didn't suggest. The only alternative to the existing law is the bill, a new proposal for a privatisation law, which the SNS will vote for. What I would also like to say, not because of my opposition colleagues, because some of them are simply not worth saying, they pretend to be blind and deaf to what is happening around them and the fact that the Government of Aleksandra Vukic has actually received one great burden, one great burden and this burden has been accumulated for years since the change in Serbia in 2000, until spring of 2012. I don't think there's any government in Europe or in the world that's been able to solve what's been done for a full decade in two years. Some colleagues tried to, and it's repeated already from session to session, that for everything that was bad in the '90s, if you noticed the charges, imagine, SNS. The Serbian Progressive Party can think of this and that, but the fact is that the SNS was formed in 2008. How can the party formed in 2008 be responsible for the poor economic situation that existed in the Republic of Serbia during the 1990s? We are accused here that the SNS was responsible for the lack of sugar and oil in the shops, the existence of gas lines, which broke out civil wars on the territory of the former Yugoslavia, or conflicts, which imposed sanctions, etc. It's just a fact-finding, historically not true. What's also not true is that DS is not responsible for those famous 90s. I would remind my opposition colleagues, I don't know if they forgot about, for example, Mr Miodrag Perisic, he was a minister in the federal government in the early 1990s in front of the DS. Would you like to remind ourselves of whose position Slobodan Radulovic was? Democratic parties. He changed party membership only when he entered one of the Socialist governments during the 1990s and moved into a new democracy, but he is in the DS position and now by that logic I could say that DS is responsible for what was bad in Serbia during the 1990s. What I also want to say, the Democratic Party, which is my impression, became a workers' and peasant party in 2012 when it went into opposition. From 2001 to 2012, it was the party and the parties that followed it, which introduced the most liberal capitalism in Serbia. So they told the rich who got richer who knows what way – gentlemen, get richer. The result of this poor economic policy is this devastating statistic that we're talking about right now. So, if you want to speak in the language of numbers, Serbia is in this situation due to the disastrous economic policy that has been conducted since 2001 and until 2012. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, above all those living in Vojvodina, I would like to say that what some of the opposition colleagues in the session are saying is simply not true. So, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if I understand things well, has no intention of selling agricultural land to anyone in Vojvodina. It is intended that our strategic partners and friends from the United Arab Emirates, agricultural land in Vojvodina, which is state-owned, should be leased at the prices at which it is otherwise given, or at the prices that are auctioned for the lease of state agricultural land in Vojvodina. So no one has any intention of giving the Dukeland, as someone says, to the Arabs or anyone else, but to rent the land. What's this really about? The province administration, led by the DS, runs a campaign against the Government of the Republic of Serbia by presenting itself to the citizens of Vojvodina as the protector of their economic interests and their policy is about the next - the Regional Government, if we are going under the new Statute, is protecting you from the evil and corrupt Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is trying to sell otherwise successful agricultural holdings in Vojvodina, which are all systematically ruined there by some Arabs, and we are the ones who defend you. I've spoken here, and I can let my opposition colleagues get as angry as they want, but I spoke in fact, I spoke in fact. The Democratic Party, and I speak with full responsibility, and today it can show how economic policy is being conducted and it points to the AP Vojvodina case. Since they were constantly asking the Minister's question today, our question is – excuse me, who is responsible for the robbery transformation of "Metals Bank" into the "Vojvodine Development Bank", who has allowed the capital, which was acquired in a completely illegal way, to enter the "Vojvodine Development Bank", who gave loans to the privileged Vojvodina firms without any guarantees, that it is possible that the same person was also the chairman of the credit committee "Vojvodine Development Bank" and at the same time a member of the Supervisory Board "Tesla Bank" in Zagreb, where the majority shareholder of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, a very obsessive institution in which business and day are obtained without tender today, in which transactions are concluded in a burzar manner, an institution that still gives money in Vojvodina today exclusively to those municipalities where DS is in power? So, instead of teaching Alexander Vukic, and you, Mr. Minister, about how he allegedly runs the state, ask them -- excuse me, what are you gentlemen doing at the same time in a good part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is called the AP Vojvodina? Today, my colleague Biljana Pilja spoke very closely about it on the basis of facts, based on what all citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina see. The AP Vojvodina has been a systematic robbery since 2000. Since 2012, unfortunately, this procedure has continued and this process continues today. I am sorry that Mr. Zika Gojkovic of the SPO is not here to tell you what a real situation is in agricultural enterprises in Sombor, in Kula, Vrbas, etc., and all these companies are allegedly defending the current province administration. These companies are in bankruptcy, these companies aren't working. Individuals from these companies are renting state land without bidding. Contracts are made in cafes, large commissions are taken, and this is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to stop. There is no alternative but to find a strategic partner for agricultural enterprises located in Vojvodina. The government of the Republic of Serbia has found a strategic partner in our UAE friends. If you have some partners, bring them in, we don't mind, but don't tell me that the alternative to what the government is doing is -- let's make arrangements at the pub, along with music and dinner, how we're going to bid, or rent without bidding, agricultural land and represent ourselves in public as protectors of the economic interests of the people of Vojvodina. So with this policy being led, Serbia can't get far. This government has received a huge problem and this problem is trying to solve it in every way possible. That's not true, and that's what I want to point out, that the government is going to cut wages. The government is trying to cut salaries in the public sector not because anyone in the government hates the public sector, after all, the government is the crown of the public sector, but simply because there is no multi-real economic justification for such wages, there is no real economic justification for increasing wages, for increasing pensions. Simply, there is, or there is, but then the state risks definitely going bankrupt in 2015 or 2016. I'll say my personal opinion. It's better for us to get a little squeeze today, get a little tight, save a little bit, than in 10 or 20 years, a thousand times worse, our kids have to do it. I am the first to be prepared to apply these measures to the Government of the Republic of Serbia because I am convinced that my children will better live, that they will not have to go through all those terrible transitions that we have been through, that we have witnessed everything that has happened in Serbia since 2001, as we have witnessed many bad things that have happened in the 1990s. As one respected opposition colleague puts it, we're not in love in the 1990s. Who can be happy with the situation in which Serbia and the Serbian people were in the 1990s? Nobody. Why is the SNS guilty of what was wrong in the 1990s? Therefore, the law on privatisation and amending the law on bankruptcy are also attempts by the government of Serbia to respond to the economic challenges caused by the poor economic policy that has been under way in this country for ten years. That is why the SNS will vote for these laws, not because it considers them ideal, not because it believes that they will make fast solutions, not because it believes that these solutions will be at the will of every individual worker or citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but because it deeply believes that we must leave this country to our children and our descendants in a much healthier political and economic state, so if you want both cultural and moral than we found it in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5843	Thank you. Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5844	This is more of a need to tell you, President, than to answer. We had a chance to hear a colleague who spent 21 minutes, 19 and something completely committed to writing a political indictment against DS and completely off the subject of the agenda, and then that's how it goes, and then someone here is expected to stand up and answer 21 minutes of untruth and nonsense, and I only have two things to say. A catastrophic situation, as you know, was found in 2000. At that time, and almost to the end, the gentleman in question was in the party until July 04th of that fateful year when he said there was no difference in betrayal between Tomislav Nikolic, Vukic and Tadic, and it was not enough for him, but we are now hearing about what is wrong with Vojvodina, which, imagine, leads its economic policy. It's nowhere in the world. The government of the Republic of Serbia is extremely failing to implement economic policy. If you have any evidence for anyone that has committed any crime, please inform the D.A.'s office or the police station and let people do their job. It will be easier for me and you not to waste time on this, but to see if you have any capacity and if you are able to do any good in this country. I'm not going to waste a gram of my energy on defending someone if they committed a crime and I'm not going to get out of this room until we fully determine that thing, but then go to the municipalities where you hold power, so look who's building roads around Serbia, whose machines that man is doing and which party is a member of and whose right hand he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5845	I thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5846	We can say the same to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5847	Thank you. I understand, two minutes. You just finished your sentence, you wrote the Rules of Procedure, I really can't get past it. I'm trying as hard as I can. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: It wasn't me. I accept it wasn't you. Zoran Babic according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm just saying that Martinovic wasn't in the government, but that's for sure he'll answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5848	Madam President, Article 107, because whenever someone doesn't have arguments, they reach for some insults and some things that don't belong in the National Assembly. If I continue with the logic of the previous speaker, then I might be able to take out what he said in 2008 about Vuk Jeremic, and what he said in 2012 about Vuk Jeremic, or what he said by 2012 about Boris Tadic, what he said after 2012 about Boris Tadic and they would not come anywhere. They would never come anywhere, because the public knows the instability in that policy, at least about some of the previous speaker's personal relationships, so I think it's the last one to be used by the power of these arguments and to honor anyone. What is a fact, and in this I fully support Mr. Martinovic, must put an end to responsibility and know exactly who is responsible for what and when. The responsibility for the period between 2000 and 2012 was to the DS, to flee, to transfer it to partners, to the current lovers they needed to form governments was immoral. The Serbian Progressive Party, as Mr. Martinovic elaborated, was created in 2008 and we accept and have been responsible since 2012 and we do not run away from it, no matter how much partner we are in that government. Who's in pain of the facts, who's in pain of the situation that we've got in our legacy instead of being settled, instead of getting paid, we've got tens and tens of thousands of people working in restructure companies, we've got hundreds of thousands of people out of work, and we're going to keep showing what kind of dowry the DS left behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5849	Thank you. As for article 107, I feel that I did not violate Article 107 and risked the dignity of the National Assembly with nothing. My only mistake was not reacting, because Mr. Martinovic was 21 years old in the period when the MP respected him that he was a member of any political party. I personally know it's not either. I'm obliged to respond to the MP. First, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic answered. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear him throw himself away and I don't want to communicate like that. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: I didn't mention him for a moment. Just to clarify the situation. I am very much recording what some MPs, who are often provoking replicas, will say. You said his name and his last name and he was a member of the government. I followed very closely. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic, because we can't do it with a mime. On what basis are you answering? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5850	Article 103. Why did you break Article 103? Because the previous speaker got up and called on Article 106, as you well noticed, 107, I apologize, and then he used two minutes and something to replicate to me, knowing that now I can't answer to him all that helium he threw out here, and I'm telling you that 103, 103, and you know it's a violation of Article 103. You should have interrupted Mr. Babic immediately, asked him to sit down or look for a replica, if he has a basis. Since there's no basis, this way we can do it by tomorrow, you know, who recognized himself. Nor did I say there was someone in the government who was a member of the party. Now you just say it's not, so the whole of Serbia is laughing, and it was. Third thing, I didn't say his name, and now you give me a line, and then I'll recognize myself in it, so I'll beg you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5851	We'll get out of this mess, so I won't allow any more replicas, except for Mr. Martinovic. It's not funny, I'm trying to be the chairman who listens carefully and sits here for hours, like Mr. Igor Becic. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5852	Members 103, 104, since I called 107, but he's been broken again. I really don't understand how much more with insults, just before Mr. Martinovic, an insult to let go of helium. What are we balloons here, spiders? Is that how colleagues view Serbian citizens? How much more of that demeaning? How much more hate? That hatred can be touched in every word of the previous speaker. Is the only Serbia he recognises Serbia led by the Democratic Party? Is the only normal condition in which Serbia led the DS, and we saw where? I do not enter the replica, but I ask you that the insults that come constantly to the SNS parliamentary group by Mr Borislav Stefanovic, by his own name and last name, this amount of hatred to stop once, because this is a bad message in our society. The hate speech is forbidden, and that hate speech is part of the folklore and political commitment of DS and Borislav Stefanovic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5853	Please, don't rephrase it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5854	I do not enter the replica, but I ask you that the insults that come constantly to the SNS parliamentary group by Mr Borislav Stefanovic, by his own name and last name, this amount of hatred to stop once, because this is a bad message in our society. The hate speech is forbidden, and that hate speech is part of the folklore and political commitment of DS and Borislav Stefanovic here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5855	Article 104 reads - if the MP is offended, etc... I did give a replica after all. I'm trying to give my word to Parliamentarian Martinovic. I don't think I was wrong. I would pray, since the code of ethics is being written and we will go to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, that, like many parliaments, we will also introduce words that are forbidden. I want to give and it is my right to give my word to Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, and the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and abuses of the Rules of Procedure exist, so we will end this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5856	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I really don't know why my dear colleague is so nervous whenever I answer my word. He and I have known each other since we studied together at the Law School in Novi Sad. He tells me that I have moved from the Serbian Radical Party to the Serbian Progressive Party. I could now transfer to him if he were also in the Serbian Renewal Movement and in the Civil Union of Serbia before he moved to the Democratic Party but that is not so important, but simply because of the factography. Mr. Stefanovic, I became a minor in 1994. So, you'll admit that until then I couldn't be... You know, minors can't be ministers in the government, not even now, nor have I ever been a minister in any government, but that's not so important either. What's most important, if you're leading a good policy in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, if everything is clear about the "Vojvodine Development Bank", about the Capital Investment Fund, if what you're saying is true is that you're the protectors of the economic interests of agricultural producers from Somboro, Kula, Vrbasa, Crvenka, Sremska Mitrovica, etc., sorry, if all that is the case, then why are you afraid of elections in the AP Vojvodina? Why are you trying to crush the majority of the Parliament of the Dukes, literally, by the power of God? One day is one human solution, and the other day is another human solution. Go to the elections, show that you are leading a good economic policy, show that you have managed the Vojvodina fairly since 2000, show that you have made the citizens of Novi Sad, Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, Pancheva, Subotica, Kikinda, Zrenjanina, come to the elections and defeat the SNS convincingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5857	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you for the correctness. Are you looking for a replica? Here's a replica, since your name is mentioned and I can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5858	The gentleman hit 50% in the game count, but it doesn't matter now. It's much more important when someone is offended by the mention of helium and says that we use hate speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5859	Are you replicating Alexander Martinovic or someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5860	Yes, but in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5861	He didn't mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5862	Can I say or can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5863	Of course, we can talk about everything we talked about today. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5864	Just to specify the use of the word "helium". Helium is a noble gas used for sleeping or stunning, in this case an entire Serbian society. And there's no connection between that gas and the nouns that the esteemed colleague listed. His recognition in those names speaks of him, not of what I wanted to say. As far as this is concerned, you, besides all that, and now, the previous speaker, have allowed this tract of the indictment to continue against the entire political organization, without even a single valid evidence, and even if we are a courtroom and we are not, and that man simply cannot believe what is being said here. Now someone will stand up and say – let's get back to the agenda. And how do we get back to the agenda when I keep feeling like the only member of the opposition, like someone who insults and hates someone? And I told him nicely that I loved them and that they just kept saying that, so the people could see who you are. Let the people see how hollow and empty you are. And when someone tells you that, you'll say it's an insult. Your rhetoric, your policy is hollow and empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5865	Mr. Stefanovic, now you're starting to insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5866	Is that an insult, that rhetoric and politics are hollow and empty? Is that more of an insult than saying he's a criminal?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5867	Go ahead. Here, it's past your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5868	No, our time is just coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5869	And that's what you know. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5870	I really promise I won't answer again, but it continues to be demeaning both the Assembly and the SNS parliamentary group that I won't really allow. The noble gases are also neon, argon, krypton, xenon and radon, next to helium. So much for general knowledge. But to continue the trend of demeaning, not only the National Assembly, not only the MPs of the SNS, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, speak exactly those empty benches behind, which are inadmissible, because we were not sent here by people to black out and debate today with the tanned battle, but to be present, just like the MPs of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-29-0.u5871	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank the MPs. Since there is no one registered for the word on the list of parliamentary groups, is there anyone who has not yet used his right under Article 96? Is the Rules of Procedure looking for a word? (No) I thank you. I'm concluding a joint and principled search. Tomorrow we will continue to work from 10:00 p.m., with the next agenda points. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Jovanovic, Snezana Malovic, Ivan Karic and Marijana Maras. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Ivan Tasovec, Minister of Culture and Information, I have also called for the session to be attended by Sasa Mirkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Dejan Stojanović, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Culture and Information and Snezana Pečenčić, senior adviser at the Ministry of Culture and Information. We continue to work and move on to a common principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decisions to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda for items 4, 5 and 6, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the proposal for a Law on Public Information and Media, the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media and the Proposal for a Law on Public Media Services. Does the representative of Proposer Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information want a word? Here you go, Minister.
