ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14543	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have before you the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, a document that has great importance and whose adoption has been pending for nearly 30 years. It is time for the process of hiring foreigners in our country to be regulated in accordance with the time in which we live, in accordance with the EU's binding recommendations, as well as the approved conventions of the International Labour Organisation and, of course, the World Trade Organisation. Foreign employment law needs in a clear and specific way to regulate the way foreigners are employed, where appropriate procedures apply to them, to make these procedures simple and uniform, which is very important for foreign investors and those who possibly want to work in the state of Serbia, but also to provide for appropriate mechanisms, based on which to protect our labour market and our citizen, i.e. our worker. I just want to say that all the chambers of commerce in the country, so also Russian, Italian, German, American, etc., have given appropriate consent. They were familiar and actively involved in the work of writing the law itself. The law has received support from the European Commission. The law also received support from the International Labour Organisation. Therefore, all relevant factors were consulted and all took part. The public debate is closed in accordance with the law. So you have all the elements, I hope, that you accept this law and that it goes into its realisation as soon as possible and in accordance with all that awaits us in the coming period. The second law we will discuss is to actually confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual preservation and maintenance of military memorials. We need not specifically explain how important it is for our history to be properly preserved and presented to the world, but also for us and future generations. An agreement with the Russian Federation has also been waiting for him for nearly four years. The first talks began as early as 2010, and in 2013, the final agreement was finalized. This agreement is in line with international law, there are no specificities. It is up to us, hopefully, to support him today and to continue another part of our good and fruitful co-operation with the Russian Federation in the laws as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14544	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want words? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14545	Honorable President, Mr. Minister, as you said by explaining the first two points of the agenda that we are working on today, this Foreign Employment Act is something that has been waiting for a long time and it's good that we have it on the agenda today. This law will hope to achieve its purpose, which is that in time, in years ahead, it allows more foreigners to come to Serbia and work, not only as workers but primarily as investors, people who bring new ideas and new investments that will allow, despite the employment of foreigners, to be employed and a significant number of Serbian citizens. I believe that this, I think, is what we read, from this great reason that came under the law, that this is harmonised and that it will encourage foreign investors to come back to Serbia, that the trend that has been going on in the last two years when foreign investments are gone, when there are no new jobs, when they are increasingly difficult to live in Serbia. I hope that Serbia will also become a place in the perspective that qualified labour will not go away but will come because it will be a favourable environment for work, for profit. Anyway, we've given a few amendments that are more legal-technical character. I think if they accept it, they'll fix the text of the law, but we'll support this legal solution anyway, because we think it's good and it needs Serbia. It is also necessary to apply this law as soon as possible and to apply other laws as soon as possible so that this law does not remain a dead letter on paper, so that this number of people, as some say in the explanation, of the law on 2,500 foreigners who request a work permit annually, and the overall assessment of the state is that there are some 7,500 people working in the Republic of Serbia, foreign citizens working in the Republic of Serbia, in order to increase above all because they have come to invest in Serbia and to help us start our established economy. If this law makes it possible, fix this situation, we will be more satisfied, and I believe all citizens of Serbia will. Of course, this law wasn't an obstacle to that. The obstacle is a government that cannot secure foreign investments, which failed in two and a half years to create an economic environment in which Serbia would invest. We constantly have announcements that this will happen in some future time, from one year to two days, so we hope that the time will finally come and that for the citizens of Serbia they will come better and not worse days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14546	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14547	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will talk about the draft law on the employment of foreigners as a very important segment of labour legislation in our country while I will talk more about the agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation as my colleagues from the parliamentary group. Foreign employment law is the need of every modern state, because with the development of society, and especially modern technologies, labour situations are much faster and more extensive and affecting all the developed world. The form of employment and work of foreign citizens in Serbia is now regulated by the Law on terms of establishing a working relationship with foreign citizens, which was adopted in 1978 at the time of the SFRY and which is still in effect today with several changes. Although the area of employment of foreigners in Serbia is legally regulated, it is extremely important that the area of employment of foreigners is brought into line with new trends in the international labour market, with our roof legislation as well as with EU legal assets and international labour organisations conventions. In this way, it will also contribute to overcoming the problems that have arisen in practice. At the same time, by harmonising domestic regulations in this area, with EU regulations, we confirm the government's reform course and contribute to the faster integration of our country. This certainly makes us competitive on labour, but also contributes to attracting foreign investment. The 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement has taken over two of the most important commitments and this establishment of a free trade zone and harmonisation of legislation with EU law. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement creates a free trade zone between the Republic of Serbia and the EU over a six-year transitional period. The agreement specifically provides for the movement of workers, business accommodation, provision of services, movement of capital where basics are given to regulate the position of workers and members of their families. Access to professional training, business accommodation, the position of companies and their business, the movements of key staff and natural persons providing services. In order to join the Republic, it is necessary to take account of the basic solutions contained in these rules concerning the movement of workers and to enable them to be employed while respecting the rights that certain categories of foreigners should be granted by persons excluded from the application of the law, EU citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, persons under different forms of international protection and members of their families. It should also be pointed out that this area is regulated and confirmed by the Convention and this regulation on the ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 97 on Migration in order to employ and the Law on the Ratification of Convention 143 on Migration and Conditions of Abuse and to improve equal treatment opportunities for immigrant workers. When drawing up this law, the Proposer managed the solutions that the World Trade Organisation had prescribed for its members by means of a general agreement on trade and services, etc. ‘GAT’ agreement. The decision of this law refers to foreigners who are employed, or who exercise the right to work in the Republic of Serbia, whether to establish a working relationship or to conclude another type of contract that gives rise to labour rights or self-employment, i.e. start a business activity or establish a company. Law solutions also concern businesses that hire foreigners. How important it is that this law is passed also shows data from the National Employment Service, according to which 2,784 foreigners received a work permit for business engagement in our country during 2013. However, there are estimates of the National Employment Service, according to which almost threefold more foreign nationals have been employed in Serbia than the number of work permits issued. In order to introduce the total number of people without a work permit into official flows in order to increase economic activity and increase tax collection, this law is precisely necessary. According to the National Employment Service, the largest number of work permits was issued to the Russians, Chinese, Turks, Romanians, Bosnians, Germans and Greeks during 2013. They are mostly employed in companies from their countries mostly in management or management jobs, but also in construction, agriculture, mining, trade or catering sectors. As regards citizens of EU member states, the most working permits are issued to citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Austria and Greece. They also work most often as managers in their companies' representations as engineers or in management jobs. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of my address today, I would also talk about the experiences that exist within the EU in the area of foreign employment. According to the European Commission, the practice in other Member States has shown that citizens are most often left because of better employment opportunities and are usually younger people who find work easier. Practice shows that citizens often agree to jobs that are overqualified and often do not always enjoy the same benefits as hosts. Therefore, more than 12 million EU citizens are slightly less than 3% of the total population living in another member state. The survey also showed that citizens from other countries who are coming to work helped fill out labour in local labour markets, as well as to reduce the effects of ageing. This system of foreign employment, according to European Commission data, has contributed to the integration programme through the development and promotion of inclusive environment and welcome culture, through information availability policy, support in language learning and intercultural dialogue and interaction among citizens. Also, it has been observed that the inflow of young working citizens into observed cities has helped respond to demographic challenges, ageing populations, labour cuts. All this is in line with the EU principle that freedom of movement cannot be separated from the free flow of goods and services. The SPS parliamentary group rightly expects a concrete example of the law to systematically regulate all foreign employment issues. Starting with the issue of issuing work permits, which is precisely regulated in relation to individual categories of foreigners, members of their families, which the existing law has so far not done. The paper is that the length of the work permits is tied to the length of the duration, stay and perfected by the provisions governing the stay of a stranger which has not been the case so far. On the other hand, foreigners are allowed to exercise equal rights to work and employment as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is an obligation in relation to the international labour organisations and EU law that are being incorporated into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The bill itself stipulates that the law does not apply to foreigners whose international agreement provides for employment in a different way. Foreigners benefiting from privileges and immunities, which carry out tasks on the basis of appropriate contracts or agreements with international organisations, or within international projects on technical cooperation, education or research. A representative of the foreign media, a foreigner who performs religious affairs, who is a volunteer, a member of a ship's crew, i.e. airships or performs operations in road or rail transport, who, on the basis of contracts concluded between the authorities responsible for defence or domestic affairs, resides in Serbia for the purpose of performing business of interest in the Republic of Serbia or for the purpose of defence or security of the country, or is perfected in these areas. These legal projects very precisely regulate important issues in this area. In particular, Article 9 of the Law provides that the employment of foreigners may also be achieved provided that they have the authorisation for temporary stay or permanent residence in accordance with the law. Also, Article 10. It is specified that the work permit can be issued as a personal work permit and work permit. The work permit is the type of work permit that can be issued as a work permit for employment, work permit for specific cases of employment and work permit for self-employment. Personal work permit means a type of work permit that allows a foreigner to be freed from employment. This type of work permit shall be issued at the request of the employers. Self-employment, is issued at the request of foreigners who are granted temporary stay in Serbia and the exercise of unemployment rights in the Republic of Serbia. Article 24 introduces the possibility of restricting the number of foreigners who are granted licences to work through the quota system in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation and the EU. Articles 27 and 28 shall be governed by the issue and extension of the work permit, stating that the work permit shall be issued for a period specified in the application for authorisation, and the maximum period of time to which the stay of foreigners is to take place. The work permit shall be extended if the conditions for its issue are met at the time of application for extension. These legal projects shall prescribe conditions for the cancellation of the permit for the work of foreigners and in the following cases, a regulated member of the 29th work permit shall be invalidated if the stranger performs tasks for which no work permit has been issued or works with another employer. A foreigner shall not start work within 15 days of the date of issue of a work permit for employment. If a foreigner is granted a self-employment permit does not start doing business within 90 days of the date of obtaining the authorisation, although the authorisation is granted contrary to the provisions of this Act. Also, the National Employment Service is obliged to keep records and that, on work permits, of foreigners exercising their right to work under this law. In addition to this, other positive aspects of this law are expected, which are a complete regulation of the matter relating to the employment of foreigners, enabling the employment and self-employment of foreigners under precisely done conditions and in a specified period. Allowing family integration rights in certain cases, the exercise of unemployment rights and other specific rights, the possibility of establishing a quota, i.e. restrictions on the number of foreigners who exercise the right to work in accordance with the state and movement on the labour market in the Republic of Serbia. The precise regulation of the process of issuing work permits, which contributes to the acceleration and simplification of procedures, the examination of the total number of movements of foreigners who exercise rights based in our country. Control over the application of the law in the sense of prescribing adequate sanctions against persons who allow illegal work and stay for foreigners who may result in the execution of a number of criminal acts and others. What is positive, which I would like to point out, is that the creation of a law on the employment of foreigners was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Trade and Telecommunications, the Commissioner for Refugees, and migration and the National Employment Service, which means authorised, competent and responsible authorities of the Serbian state. It is also positive that the draft law was held in public debate and that the participants in the public debate were representatives of state bodies, public services, business entities and trade unions, employers' associations, chambers of commerce, the professional public, representatives of the NGOs and international organisations and other interested participants. Three round tables were held during the public debate. The adoption of this law confirms the Serbian government's reform path, contributes to faster European integration, as well as the harmonisation of legislation with EU law. In the end, what is very important to the citizens of our country, the application of this law will not cost the citizens or the economy. In the context of his address, speaking of a bill confirming agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation, on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Starting with the fact that the area of protection of military memorials is not regulated by the state agreement, its adoption is absolutely necessary, both because of a common war history and because of the memory of all the fighters who gave their lives for our freedom. I would remind you that the agreement was made on 10 April 2013 in Moscow as a wish by the party signatories to secure a decent place of rest and to preserve the memory of military and civilian persons, whose deaths and deaths are the result of World War I and Second, as well as other war operations. This agreement regulates a number of issues from how to determine to build military memorials, eshumation and re-bursement of post-mortem remains, financial support and material protection, until the coordination between our two countries and the resolution of potential disputes. I would also like to say that my colleague Sinisa Maksimovic will say more about this agreement. Due to all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law on the employment of foreigners, as well as a proposal for an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14548	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14549	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with their team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, it is good to see in parliament that all MPs support when the ministry proposes as many laws, legislative solutions and when the minister is often in this room, which is when the question of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy has already become a practice. What is good today, I think we can come up with one minimum of consensus between opposition and positional MPs on the new law on the employment of foreigners, as it is just one process of bringing our legal legislation into line with the European Maki and the European legislation, which is one of the most important parameters for the dynamic European integration process in which Serbia participates, one of the government and Parliament themselves. Of course, as a Social Democrats, I would point out that this law, the old one, which is from 1978, is changed by a new law, but fully in line with the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation, but what is most important with the EU's Social and Economic Policy Bible, which is the European Social Charter, with all its 11 hard and 22 soft provisions, which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified in 2009. This is very important, and the European Social Charter should represent the condicio son of qua non-work and the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry itself, but also us in parliament to create and create a social market economy, to open our country and liberalise the space for the human knowledge and skills competition, not only for domestic employees, not only for domestic workers, but, of course, for workers and those who would like to work in Serbia, to invest in Serbia from abroad, especially from EU countries. Finally, it is our duty, it is our obligation to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and it is very important because of the development of our economy itself, but I will also remind the education system, the full implementation of the Bologna Declaration in our country, because, of course, the participation and arrival of workers and employees from abroad will be shared by foreign investors by mobilising our employees and generally those who operate the educational system to make it as good as possible, to be as possible and to be more consistent with the best world practice and practice of developed European countries, because, if we do not have quality education, if we do not develop and take care of the development of the skills of our workers and our employees, they will not be able to withstand that competition when we inevitably open the labour market. This is a very important step in this domain, which represents one of the basic parameters of civilization when it comes to the creation of a single free market, both goods and services markets, such as the capital markets, in this case the labour market. I have no doubt, as is the case with the micro-level in the companies themselves, when it is good that new people come to the company from time to time, to introduce new knowledge, to introduce innovations and to introduce this competitive spirit, which is very important we want and the intention is fundamental, and to bring this competitive debt into our country, between our citizens and our labour market. So in any case, this law will have that so-called so-called. in the economy, we say, "a spilling effect," where we will benefit, where we will have the opportunity for people who invest, who hire new people, who define and provide opportunities for those who self-employed, which is a great advantage and what our country and those who deal with economic policy need to develop, they will bring them to be the generators of new knowledge, innovation and all that can contribute to domestic, but of course foreign companies create additional value here and that, most importantly, they will hire new people. In any case, the primary objective of this ministry, we saw it when the minister here defended the Labour Act, we saw it also when he launched many initiatives concerning labour and social legislation. A clear goal is to create an entrepreneurial society, create one ambience, create one good energy, which this government wants to make, so that our country can develop quality and well economically, so that it can hire, but also to motivate all people who are capable of having ideas to start initiatives to rely on themselves, so that from that official society that we still have, we can come to this main goal, which is to be an entrepreneurial society, to put together a cheap state that will only represent good service to the citizens of Serbia and, of course, businesses. This is the way. I think it is quite clear that the energy that the minister and the entire ministry are investing in this is enough to promise that in the term of this government, we will have a very modern quality, working legislation that will represent a serious framework for our country's economic development, for new employment and for our country's exit in economic terms to the green branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14550	Thank you. The word is Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14551	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, I will talk today about the draft law on the employment of foreigners and, as we know, that this area of foreign employment in our country until today's proposal for foreign employment was regulated by legislation, I am now free to say from the second half of the last century, more specifically from 1978. Under such a law, rather outdated and exceeded, national employment services averaged around 2,500 work relations approvals per year. Unfortunately, there is no record of foreigners exercising their right to other grounds, because this is only about starting a working relationship, not about starting a so-called. ‘flexible working relationships’ and other species, such as self-employment. Also, there is approximately the same number if, on the basis of the Foreign Law, which is a slightly newer date, but also because of its alignment and harmonisation with European standards and regulations, the number of foreigners who are authorised to stay on the basis of work, employment or other activities is clearly complemented. On the basis of this, we can conclude that Serbia does not represent a significant immigration area, but this area should certainly be regulated for future times on modern principles, and also respecting the rights that certain categories of foreigners should achieve, and such as persons excluded from the application of the law, such as EU citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. Persons under various forms of international protection and members of their families, this bill includes for the first time family members to be complete and to be able to achieve better communication and better material gain. The intensive and daily change in socio-economic relations over the past period and the dominant changes in society has provided for a change in legal regulations in our area, such as the adoption of the Labour, Labour Protection, Pension and Disabilities Insurance, Employment and Others. That is why the law on the employment of foreigners becomes inevitable especially when the process of harmonising our rules with EU rules is at stake. This bill is an exceptional example of how European legislation can be implemented so that the law is fully applicable in Serbia, regardless of the specificities and differences that normally exist in each country. One of the four main postulates on which the European Community is also on, in 1957, the freedom of movement of workers was also established. Such freedom entails the abolition of any discrimination based on national grounds between Member States' workers in terms of employment, remuneration and other, as well as employment conditions. What is very important, by passing such a law, we will protect ourselves during this transitional period of our people, our future employees, because all provisions of this law relating to EU citizens will come into force once Serbia becomes a full and equal member of the EU. What is very good in this law is also part of the legislation when obtaining employment permits is accelerated. What is necessary is co-operation with the MUP, to get a residence permit as soon as possible, then to submit a complete project, i.e. documentation on the lease of an object in which it wants to carry out some work. Also, there is certain equipment, not fictitious equipment, and simply report who is the employee he wants to hire, whether it is foreign citizens or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This way we open the way for investors who want to, and foreigners are, to invest in our country and to have a prosperous and modern society. We will support these legislative regulations and proposals as much as possible because we think that this will improve and bring European regulations into line, as well as improve and speed up the process of building our country and increasing and the arrival of investors and economic activities in our country. Another bill I want to talk about is the protection of the memorials between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. In the past years behind us, we have been intertwined with each other over a hundred years of conflict, such as World War I, World War II, Serbian-Turkish, Russian-Turkish wars, certainly those who are the most dear, which is life, donated to the release of another country, deserve also a special pite and a memory of them. Not only is this important as a cultural and historical heritage of our countries, not only Serbia and Russia, but other EU countries whose warriors were on the path of liberation when Serbia struggled to achieve its independence and its rights, but what I have to say is also a feature of a decent behaviour and one, to say, the polite behaviour of a country towards the people who have laid down what is most precious, which is life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14552	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14553	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the law on the employment of foreigners, viewing it as the necessary law that should exist in our legal system and law that will give foreigners the same rights that our citizens have abroad. On the other hand, we expect it to be another significant incentive to come, above all, by foreign investors who want, besides our citizens, to bring with them both adequate and qualified workforce, because this is the basic and inalienable right of the employer. I think it is really good when the day comes when all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as far as I can see from the mood of the parliamentary groups, will vote for this law and for an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian memorial complexes in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian memorial complexes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about these issues, the status of memory complexes, of course we can look at it from the historical aspect, both from the political aspect and from the aspect of the relationship between the two states to those who gave the greatest Christian value for the construction of the state and the freedom of their peoples, they gave their lives. What one country can do minimally is to treat all those who have given the greatest Christian value for what the future generations have, and which is the highest and highest human right, and that is human freedom. This agreement was concluded on 10 April 2013 in Moscow and concerns, above all, the preservation of the memory of military and civilian persons whose deaths were the result of World War I and Second and war operations. Until recently, we had the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, a truly wonderful exhibition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which we saw all the most important documents on all the conditions and political opportunities that caused the creation of World War I, but also a wonderful copy of then-Krondezor Aleksandr Karadjordjevic with Russian Emperor Nikolai Romanov, when he seeks help, King Alexander the Crown Prince, or trusting in the traditional alliance and friendship and Orthodox bond of the two nations, and when Romanov answers that Russia will surely not be, Tsarin Russia, indifferent to what is being prepared by the German and Austrian monarchies towards Serbia, and that he will certainly not leave his Serbian brothers at large. It is something that is deeply etched in the historical consciousness and relations of the two nations. What's also very important, it's marked by a military parade, it's a victory in World War II, when, let's not forget, without the help of the red army, the German fascists remain in Serbia for a long time, because it's certain that we didn't have so much military power to deal with the German fascists at that speed. Minister, I wanted to take this opportunity and this topic, since you are a resolute minister and I believe that this is both human and Christian and divine justice, that you as someone who is ideologically opposed to the SPO and someone who is like most of your political equalists, ideological like-minded, were at some point on the side that banned the greats, the winners of the First World War not only said that they had crossed the goal of Albania, that they had defeated three empires, but simply had none of the privileges that the members of the Partisan movement had, nor pensions, nor social donations, nothing, because they were considered great Serbs and those opponents of the regimes that did not come into place in 1945. On the other hand, if we want to have a pate and a relationship with all the victims, then we should also have that for those victims that were created after the entry of the Russian army and the release of fascism as one totalitarian regime, but unfortunately this totalitarian regime has replaced another totalitarian regime called Communism, and we have indeed had one terrible event in Serbia, which I believe this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be determined. We've had terrible crimes against the civilian population committed since 12 September 1944. Tens of thousands of people for ideological reasons are deprived of life, freedom, other rights, without judicial or administrative decision. The government of the totalitarian communist regime has committed individual, mass killings, killings in prisons, camps, torture, deportation, ban on returning to homes, slave labor and other forms of physical terror, persecution on an ideological, political basis, confiscation of property, civil rights, citizenship, endangering freedom of conscience, thought, expression, press, religion, political multilateral. A state commission has also been formed to determine the number of mass graves. Unfortunately, in Serbia, over a hundred and over 100,000 postmortem remains of those who still have no ideological reasons from the state of Serbia, that at least a list of victims is executed, that in the way in which this agreement with the Russian Federation is regulated, there is a decent mention of the traits, that the Republic of Serbia is clearly determined by the crimes which play a great role in raising future generations and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia takes a clear stance, as did the Russian Dum on the crimes of communists and mass graves, that this is a great historical error and a great historical delusion, so I would ask you, this is probably one and more justice, that you are talking about this, and that you were once quite ideologically scarred on these subjects, to see whether there is your willingness to determine yourself and to do this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14554	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14555	I'm thanking you. I think that the Law of Confirmation of an Agreement with the Russian Federation is really unnecessary to ideologies in any way and to connect to any ideology regardless of the current and former state. It's like if I started to explain to you now who was a member of the Communist Party. Now you tell me if they were honest about politics at the time, it doesn't matter, it just doesn't matter. This is an agreement that addresses the issue of our memorials with the Russian Federation and this is one of the few countries where there are no monuments, because Serbs who have scattered their bones all over the world somehow did not do so in the territory of the Soviet Union at the time, i.e. The Russian Federation today. We are the ones who will mark the Russian memorials, because Russia has fought for freedom in these areas for centuries, among other things, and for the Serbian people, at that time spoken Christian under Ottoman occupation. So, to avoid ideology. You know, now I could go out and say, well, you know, in 1917, when the Bolsheviks came to power, the only volunteers who were allowed to go to World War I were Yugoslav volunteers from Odessa, because Lenin then believed that Serbia was waging a fair war. Does he say anything about Lenin? He doesn't tell you anything, but let's just let it go now, it's for another session, some other thing. I look forward to you supporting this law, like any MP, I hope that the other MPs will support such a simple and pure thing and that we are not now introducing the elements of our ideological divisions here, I think we would go too far, especially in values. There are MPs here who think differently. It's just natural and perfectly logical and there's no need to go that way. This is good law, this is useful, this is necessary. We thus create conjecture to repay ourselves to both the Roman and the Red Army. We also repay ourselves to the NKVD generals and repay ourselves to the generals of the Russian Imperial Infantry. Why not? They were all our friends, fighting for us. We didn't even look at their cap marks at the time, which would now look at their cap marks. I think it's completely logical and natural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14557	I thank you, Minister, for your incomplete answer. In all of what I was talking about after 1944, no member of the Socialist Movement or of your former party, JUL or SPO, was killed. I'm just talking about how we all need to get that ideological scrimmage out of our eyes and treat all the victims who have contributed to freedom equally. Of course it's more than clear that you personally do not have that kind of readiness. You've taken one step forward, celebrating with a lot of justification and with a lot of delays what the Thessalonians have done. It's a good thing you got out of your ideological matrix in that part, but it's not a good thing you're not ready to finish that job and treat all the victims equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14559	You know, it's more than incorrect to plant anyone without respecting the Thessaloniki warriors. In a country where you've been in longer, and I've lived a little shorter, the Thessaloniki warriors were getting pensions, among other things. They were valued as those who fought in 1941 in every way. I didn't learn about the Battle of Cera in 1991. I won the history contests on that topic in the republican and circuit competitions. I was the third in the republic, and the first in the province of Vojvodina, on the subject before 1980, therefore, at the time of the government of this glorious one-brain. So it wasn't exactly like that, especially not World War I. Whether you could study more or not, it's a matter that you and I can give our opinion which is completely subjective and unfounded because neither you nor I are historical experts to talk about, but to say that only now discovered the Thessalonians and that we have discovered the First World War is slightly incorrect. I didn't notice that our First World War cosmetics at the New Cemetery were shot down maybe during those years. If Tekerish hadn't been destroyed, wouldn't he have been destroyed, not all those glorious places of our history have been destroyed? Don't drag ideology into this. You have no reason to. I can understand, I know your party's leadership has a slight allergy when it sees me, but that's their problem. Do not make this a problem of this congregation, and we must now satisfy the positions of the leadership of this or that and their opinions. We're talking about a military memorial agreement. There's no place in it for 1944, 1945, a debate about the Golo Island, no. The only thing there are military memorials between the Russian Federation and the state of Serbia, nothing more. They don't write partisans, they don't write brushes. It says what it says. We need to discuss providing Colonel Rajevski with a suitable resting place and repairing his monument, not talking about what anyone liked ideologically. Let's not make this an ideological debate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14560	Thank you. Mr. Chiquiriz, I don't think there's any point. We're out of the agenda, and I don't want to have any more discussion. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14561	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, today the Law on the Employment of Foreigners, which we are talking about, I want to sincerely support, because I believe that this is a very important law from the point of view of determining the right to hire foreigners, the possibility and the way to exercise that right, as well as the obligation of the state to grant work permits. As we have already heard from the debate, this law was passed in 1978, but in time until 2005, as seen from some records, it has been changed some 10 to 12 times in individual segments. The obligation to comply with the EU's positive regulation was adopted primarily and came directly from the 2008 SAA, when established rights and Serbia agreed to create a free trade zone, as well as the harmonisation of total legislation, thus also legislation in the field of work within Serbia. This applies first and foremost to the right and new identification of employment opportunities and the movement of workers, business accommodation and provision of services, movement of capital and professional training. In any event, from this one change of status and the position of foreigners coming to be employed and who will definitely come in the future, new obligations of the employment service, which must accordingly be followed by the implementation of the legal provisions. What is important, this law lays down the conditions in which foreigners can be employed, but at the same time lays down the procedure for issuing those work permits, records, supervision, as well as certain criminal provisions. Now we have to pass a new law, because it can no longer be improved and new terms, new technologies, new methodologies have emerged, new jobs have been created, and from the point of view of the arrival of new investors, are being created or will only be created in Serbia and new changes in the field of labour and employment, which everyone seems to be, sincerely, looking forward to happening as soon as possible. As new investors arrive, new jobs are created. Capital law opens up the labour market, as well as the possibility of going to work where there is one. The phenomenon is well represented in EU countries, as it goes to other countries because of better employment opportunities, social security and better living conditions. Such an open labour market requires, what I particularly want to underline is knowledge, comprehensive and new and always new, as well as great expertise, but also the possibility of great mobility. In that sense, it will primarily refer to young people who can easily move from one job to another, who can constantly perfect themselves, but easily move on from one city to another, which is a rare case in Serbia so far. In the coming countries, such young people often do jobs, when they leave, our citizens, countries of other EU countries or other Eastern European countries in the Central European countries, often accept jobs from the level of qualifications they have or do not enjoy benefits as domestic citizens. It's something to be affected as far as possible. It has often been shown that citizens of other countries have helped to fill some of the jobs in the countries to which they come, as well as the lack of labour, especially in certain qualifications and types of occupations that are missing in the environments, but the effect of restoring the population has also been achieved, which I believe is very important from the point of view of Europe, which, on average, belongs to older nations in the age structure. This law also creates the right to freedom of movement, which is large and significant for all European countries and strengthens social stability. What should be pointed out are the positive results of the application and adoption of one of these laws, which relate to the renewal of the workforce, namely permanent education and learning, innovation in this area, but also the restoration of the population, freedom of movement, choice and the creation of new businesses and new technologies. The negative results or impacts of such dynamics in the movement of labour may, I mentioned, be such that the arrivals are often more qualified, but agree to lower jobs than their qualifications, have lower salaries, there are differences in that part, that their housing conditions and school integration are worse in these new environments. In countries such as Germany, Spain, the UK, there are huge inflows of the population and these countries have high economic effects precisely based on this approach and the mechanical movement of the population and workers. On the other hand, there are countries most often and largely leaving within the EU, and this applies to Romania, Bulgaria and Poland. From the current period of Serbia's development, regardless of the country within the EU, we are present on a daily basis, and we see young, qualified experts coming from Serbia to Europe, to other countries, and precisely for the reasons I mentioned. By passing such a law, but also by all efforts, which have recently been made by this government from the point of view of attracting capital, by attracting new investments, by creating new conditions for the adoption of new technologies, etc., which we hope, with all these changes in the approximation of the EU and taking place with us, the conditions are created for our workers to be employed, for the people who are unemployed to get a job here, but not to forget that we must open ourselves up in accordance with the laws that exist in the EU, to be prepared for that, and for certain qualifications and certain jobs will come both from foreign workers and work here. What I want to point out here specifically and I want to particularly support is that this incentive to employment, to learning and to a competitive relationship, in terms of quality and a new relationship that interferes with work, is that environment that we need. This law is one of the laws that will create such conditions that it is present, and from that very point of view I want to support this law. Processes that are in line with these are processes that have long been present in other European countries. We must be prepared for these processes, and the law is also important from the point of view of our harmonisation of our domestic legislation with EU law. Here we can speak, another few sentences, that we already have certain foreign workers who are employed independently of the existence of such a law. It's, we know, the Russians, the Chinese, the Romanians and the people of Bosnia, who are employed in different jobs. The largest number, per cent, of the population comes from Russia, or Russian experts, who are employed in NIS and other structures, are from the management area. For example, the Chinese are employed in the area of trade, while Romanians and people from Bosnia are employed as farmers, miners and other auxiliary activities. But what this law can create is this new environment, which I specifically point to and I want to support in particular – new technologies, new knowledge, new employment of our experts here, which Serbia will not be left without its population, which will also enable the immigration of new ones and hopefully preserve Serbia in a demographic sense. So, learning for employment, as the primary objectives of this government, we support it anyway, and the SPS will support it in accordance with these objectives of this government, these laws, as well as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14562	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14563	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and respected citizens who follow this work and who are contributing in this way to the public of the work of this Parliament, is today a very important law that needs to show that the state of Serbia is truly favored and that it wants to be a state of favourable economic environment. We understand the fact that we have a high unemployment rate, but our government recognized social policy and recognized the course it must take. This law, which we are due to issue today in the voting day, clearly says that the state of Serbia really wants to bring its legislation into line with EU countries and raise the level of competitiveness of its own workforce, but also to be a real state that will ensure that many managers, many private entrepreneurs from EU countries can come here, to the state of Serbia and start their business. In order not to repeat myself as my previous colleagues that I am talking about what procedure was established for the admission of foreigners into work, the National Service, I can say with all praise, as a worker of this house, that it really has a high personnel structure, technical equipment, and since it has been left for three months, it can extremely make it possible to bring its work into line with this law that has provided for all these standards. Under this law, foreigners have the same status as our citizens. But someone who has really participated in the process of implementing an active employment policy and in the process of intervention itself, I must tell you that I have been asked a very often question – so in the fields, for example, Bulgarians and Romanians work in the area, and our local unemployed will not work. In order not to resent my unemployed faces, I have to say that people with low qualifications very often avoid and do not know what the right measure is where they can apply. Simply, you come in a position to have, for example, a list of 50 unemployed and you get into the selection process, in an interview that you have to do with every person you point to, for example, in one field, to pick strawberries, specifically, he says – I'm not interested in that job, don't mind me, but give me something else. I have no doubt that people from the environment, from Bulgaria, from Romania, have found their own account and have been employed. On the other hand, in addition to those people with low qualifications, we also have persons who mainly apply to high management positions and data from the National Service that in 2013, 2,784 foreign nationals formed a working relationship. I am absolutely sure that the National Service will be able to respond to the proposal for this law, for the simple reason that a tweeting project has been implemented, which has worked intensively in the past period to prepare the institutions of the labour market, in order to respond better to these EU requirements and regulations. I also want to say that the fact that the bill will find its application on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the simple reason that the National Service, as a public service, as a service which is the hub of the implementation of the employment policy in these areas, will be able to absolutely meet and respond to all the requirements. Because, believe me, somewhere around 1,800 people are committed to work, constantly and constantly perfecting, and I don't think our results are going to go down. I would like to take the opportunity to say to ours, to tell the Minister who is here with us today, that it would be good for the government of the Republic of Serbia in the next financial year to allocate as much funds as possible to implement the active employment policy, for a simple reason, because many local self-governments, for example, in the previous two, up to three years, have allocated significant funds to implement the active policy, but there were no co-financing funds from the Republic. So, very often, instead of sharing incentives as we say, at a time when it is divided, when we need to hire trainees, professional practice, to conduct self-employment competitions somewhere in May and sign contracts, so that we have a good realization during that calendar year, we very often come into a position, such as now, that we only now make contracts for professional practice, because we had to rely solely on our own resources. So, once again, I think this law will find its application, that there will be absolutely no problems, so the National Service is fully prepared as a service to implement this. But only then, once again, I urge the Minister and his associates to identify as much as possible in the next financial year to implement an active employment policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14564	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Vuceta Toskovic, then Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here's the wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14565	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of the Foreign Employment Act. The constitutional basis, as well as the formal legal basis for the adoption of the law on the employment of foreigners, is contained in Article 95(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which Serbia is obliged to regulate the position of foreigners, as well as foreign citizens, as well as at other points of the same member of the Republic of Serbia, shall also specify employment, as well as the working relationship of protection at work, social security and other forms of the social security of foreign persons. The second is the old Law on terms of working relationship, foreign persons or foreign citizens, from another SFRY law. This law exclusively provides for the possibility of establishing a working relationship for foreign persons, as well as those who do not have our citizenship, where authorisation is granted for the establishment of this working relationship. The work relationship authorisation shall be granted by the organisation responsible for employment activities, provided that the stranger has prior authorisation for permanent settlement, i.e. temporary stay. The law on foreigners also prescribed the stay of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia, the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 97/08, which regulates that under the stay of foreigners is considered a 90-day stay of temporary residence and permanent settlement. A temporary stay can be granted to a stranger if he intends to stay longer in the Republic of Serbia, for more than 90 days and for work, employment, temporary activities and other activities, education, study and many other activities in accordance with international law. The Republic of Serbia is not an immigration area. It'll probably change in the near future. For this area should be done in the time to come, so that, by respecting the rights that certain categories of foreigners should achieve, persons excluded from the application of the law are – EU citizens from both the areas of European space and the Swiss Confederation, but under different forms of international protection and their families. The past positive changes in our society have allowed them to amend the rules in the field of labour relations and the movement and residence of parties, and that is to say in their members of the Foreign Employment Act in the Republic of Serbia. Given the goal of joining the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has made a decision to agree and harmonise our rules with the EU, basic solutions under these rules that regulate the movement of workers and facilitate their employment must be taken into account. Since the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for the Republic of Serbia to the EU was signed on 29 April 2008, two important obligations have been made to establish a free trade zone, aligning legislation with EU rights. This Agreement also regulates customs, trade and trade and services areas, regulate the movement of workers, business housing, provision of services and movement of capital, etc. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the Republic of Serbia within all agreed deadlines for our legislation to comply with European laws and legal provisions of the European Community, so that, when drawing up this law, they are taken into account EU directives, and they relate to the movement, stay of foreigners, but are also partly related to the possibility of employment and the right to work. The free movement of workers is one of four freedoms on which the European Community was founded in 1957. Article 45 states in the functioning of the European Union that the free movement of workers is ensured within the European Union and that the free movement of workers abolishes any discrimination based on nationalities between workers, Member States and employment rights, compensation and other working and employment conditions. In the time in which we live, that is, in the 21st century and the modern conditions of market economy, the employment of foreign citizens should be arranged in a different way than defined in the existing law. This law will provide good conditions for foreign investment, so that we can move faster into a better future. This law harmonizes the regulatory arrangements, as well as the possibilities for the working relationship of foreigners, as well as the conclusion of contracts which exercise the right to work. This would equalise foreign citizens who have a permanent residence in our territory of the Republic of Serbia with domestic citizens. So we'd have the right and the possibility of hiring at all jobs. In order to exercise the right based on unemployment, we must speed up and simplify the issue of work permits when it comes to individual categories of foreigners. This law on the employment of foreigners defines the provisions precisely, such as the conditions for the employment of foreigners and citizens of the European Union as a work permit, a work permit for employment, a work permit with special employment cases, a work permit for the employment of foreigners, a procedure for issuing work permits, etc. Of course, the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Combat and Social Affairs will deal with the implementation of this law and its purpose in the entire territory of Serbia. There's more inspection surveillance that's sure to carry out this in detail. So, by adopting this law, the Labour Act and the other laws and those that we have passed, we encourage foreign investors to invest in the Republic of Serbia, so we would conduct the exposés of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and thus make a dream of a better future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14566	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Ilic Stosic, followed by Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go, Biljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14567	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, today the Assembly is due to approve an agreement that was made up of several years and a half ago in Moscow between the two countries' delegations at the highest level. As a result of the need to resolve the issue of military memorials, military cemeterys, mentioning the markings, that it simply simply simply regulates one of the good legal acts of both states. It is very noticeable that this proposal implies the most direct reciprocity in rights and obligations, therefore, all that is in force and thus binding on one side is true for the other, and all newly created issues have to be resolved through co-operation for those specially established bodies. As a national MP and personally as a man, I am happy that this issue will be settled by a valid law. I believe we're going to support this proposal most of the time, because I just have no idea who would have anything to do with this. In addition to the fact that the SNS parliamentary group will unconditionally support this proposal, it is also an opportunity to remind ourselves that the military cemetery is one of the most secure confirmations of how much we have in common with the great Russian people, and that the common past, which reminds us that we have always been on the same side and fought against the same enemy, warnings that we must stand today, and especially in the future. Unfortunately, we are witnessing international tensions and thorns that put us in a very delicate and thankless position, in which each little bit of a voice reminds us that we must define ourselves to impose sanctions on Russia, to which our determination to enter a large family of European peoples allegedly obliges us. On the other hand, graves of known and unknown fallen heroes in a land that they never felt like some alien there remind us that the most precious victims, those in human lives, should never be trampled, willingly, under any pressure, at any cost. It is not only a matter of respect for victims and our common history, but it is also a question of national dignity in the ultimate issue of sovereignty, independence to retain the right to make decisions in accordance with our own national and state interests, both in the name of the past and especially in the name of the future. Serbia today has more and more friends in both the east and the west should not mean that one day it has to be defined. Especially when one of these parties remains a guarantee of our territorial integrity and integrity of a state that is not and will not give up our southern province. So today, when we discuss the agreement, I ask my esteemed colleagues to deal with this issue, which must never be forgotten. Obstacle victims, more than all signatures and seals have perpetuated the friendship of the Russian and Serbian people with yet another reminder that much is lastingly valuable that they bring us together, and we should not for a moment think that we should step on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14568	The People's Messenger Aleksandra Maletic has the word, and then Nadica Nikolic. I have to skip some MPs, because they're on board, so I apologize for the little disturbance in the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14569	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, co-workers, respected MPs, is a valid regulation that has so far regulated the area of employment of citizens' dwellings in 1978. We'll all agree that it's been a long time since then and that there's been a series of social changes. At the same time, the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to signing different agreements and conventions to bring its legal system into line with EU regulations concerning labour movement. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia has also taken the obligation to agree on its free trade zone, which includes the harmonisation of rules relating to the free movement of workers as one of the four freedoms on which the European Community is based. The provisions in this law, relating to the employment of EU citizens, will take effect once Serbia becomes an EU member. It should be noted that this law clearly states that foreign citizens should not become a burden in the social protection system of the RS and this legal solution is taken into account. What does this Foreign Employment Act bring? First of all, the area of licensing, work permits are clearly defined here. So far, there have been a number of concerns as to how this area should be taken into account, so it was not clear under what conditions foreign citizens receive a residence permit and a work permit. According to this legal solution, in a comprehensive and systematic manner, this problem has been resolved and outlined in this proposal. Under this bill, foreigners will be required to work in Serbia to approve and stay and work permits, except for certain categories of diplomats, athletes and researchers who are involved here on various projects and others who are clearly defined in the law. In one system way, the law defines the conditions of employment of foreign citizens, as well as employers who employ foreign citizens, so that the employer whose application is granted a work permit will not be able to grant a worker to another employer. Also, he'll be obliged to pay social benefits for this. If the employer fails to meet it, he will have to bear a burden when it comes to giving and receiving and those who are lagging behind will have to pay. It should be noted that the law introduces and the possibility to limit the number of foreigners to be issued a work permit, which will be established, the government will make that decision at the request of the ministry, with the opinion of the Social and Economic Council previously delivered in relation to labour market movements. Modern market business, the free movement of workers, as well as the establishment of foreign representations in our country, and all that brings about the harmonisation of the rules with the EU have actually pointed out the need for one area that is very important to agree and a uniform way to pass a law that will clearly define this. This law will directly regulate the area and improve the positive affirmation of foreign investment in RS. So in the voting day, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14570	Thank you. After Milanka arrived, Milanka Jevtović Vukojicic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14571	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected and respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today on the agenda of the Foreign Employment Act. He's significant with several aspects. The first aspect of the importance of this law is certainly our obligation to bring the normative legal framework into line with standards and the EU legal framework. On the way to the EU's approach, it is certainly our obligation to bring the normative framework into line, and therefore the first aspect of the importance of this law is this. What is significant, and what the Law on the Employment of Foreigners regulates, are questions relating to work permits, precise and accurate system of issuing work permits, precise and precise way of issuing work permits, accurate and accurate records relating to issued work permits and to foreigners who have work permits, but precise and precise obligations and responsibilities have been established both by the National Employment Service and the employer, i.e. the same way the obligations of the employer applying for a work permit have been arranged. What is important to point out is that when issuing personal work permits, they are issued at the request of a foreigner and the work permit is directly related to the residence permit that a foreigner has on RS territory. So, the condition for issuing a work permit is a permit to stay in the country. As far as personal work permits are concerned, I must point out that the issue of a personal work permit in Article 13 is also foreseen for categories of particularly sensitive groups of foreigners, and otherwise our obligation is taken from ratification of international conventions and of course of the EU directive, and I will list only some categories of foreigners, which are victims of human trafficking, asylum seekers, persons under temporary protection, refugees. What is significant, and as regards the work permits issued at the request of the employer, it is that the employer's work permit may be issued for the employment of a foreigner if a month earlier he has not found a job market for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a foreigner with a personal work permit and, of course, it is an obligation for the employer to contribute a contract relating to the work of a foreigner. It is also the obligation of the employer to notify the National Employment Service within 15 days whether or not the foreigner is employed. What I also want to mention is a work permit relating to self-employment. This is also significant from the aspect of opening and creating new business entities, but there are also precise and clearly defined conditions under which a stranger can obtain a self-employment license in which he must, of course, provide evidence of his qualification, his expertise, but must also give other evidence relating to the ownership or lease of a business space in which he is to work, must also give evidence concerning the equipment of that business space and must give evidence of the number and structure of employees, primarily of a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who wants to work. What is also characteristic of this member of the law, which refers to a personal work permit for self-employment, is this 90-day period, or three months in which the employer is obliged to start working. If they do not start working within that time limit, the licence issued will be withdrawn. What is certainly important is that the adoption of this law does not require any additional financial resources related to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but that the National Employment Service, or organisational unit within the framework of the existing human resources structures, will redistribute and issue these permits adequately. What is also important is the establishment of this unique record of issued work permits, which will also be run by the National Employment Service. It is under the obligation to adopt, within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, a sublegal act relating to job systematisation. I would like to emphasise the value of this law, which refers to the fact that in the event of a disturbance in the employment market in the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with migration movements, the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, that is, the part that is responsible for the employment portfolio, with the opinion of the Social Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia and the opinion of the National Employment Service, can propose to the Government the introduction of quotas. The introduction of quotas is only in those situations where there would be too much unemployment for our citizens in certain branches or labour disturbances on the market. Since this is also one of the laws leading towards the establishment of a legal framework in line with EU standards, the SNS in the voting day will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14572	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Nadica Nikolic Tanasijević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14573	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today's agenda I would like to set out a bill on the validation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and the status of Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, resulting from the Agreement signed by the representatives of these two governments in Moscow on 10 April 2013. Monuments or memory marks of time and space. They reflect political ideas and bearers of messages that glorify their values. Also, they are also a materialized part of history that needs to survive the moment that marks. From the very definition of the word monument comes all the importance and all the importance of memory of the past. From Russian military memorials, which honor the fallen Red Army fighters in World War II, I would like to single out the memorial tomb for Belgrade's liberators, whose central part includes the status "Red Armeac", which is otherwise the work of famous Vajar Antun Augustinčić, where 711 dead soldiers and officers of the Red Army were buried, of a total of 961 fallen fighters during Belgrade's release. As a second monument, I would mention the memorial park at the Čačalica near Pogorec, where there are the brutal remains of 441 soldiers of the Red Army who died in the struggles that were led to the move from Majdanpek to Mladenvec, along with soldiers who fell even during the release of the fireman himself. In honor of the fallen victims in 1967, on the day of the release of Pogorec, just a few years after the arrangement of the Memorial park, it was brought from the far Russian village of Povarov 441 birch, along with the Russian land, and planted on the Memorial Park on Čačalica. There's another monument I want to speak of specifically, it's the Memorial of the skeleton in Ritopek, in the place where I was born and where I live today. In fact, in Ritopek in October 1946, the Memorial of skeletons was erected by the fallen Red Army fighters in World War II. The rise of this monumental monument in severe postwar occasions speaks of the consciousness, the elan, the enthusiasm and the denials that were made for its construction. Why is this monument important? I'll just mention a few historical facts. The good acquaintances of World War II history know that the decisive battle for Belgrade's liberation was fought right here in Ritopek, a place where soldiers of the Red Army crossed the Danube on the night between 6th and 7th October 1944. In the struggles fought uninterrupted for 12 days, 257 Red Army fighters and 47 Ritopek locals died. Immediately after the release, the Ritopek population's initiative began with the construction of a monument, thought to be the most monumental monument in the Belgrade area after the Avali Monument "Unknown Hero". The monument project was designed by architect Momcilo Belobrk, otherwise the famous name of architecture in the postwar period, and the reliefs depicting the battle by architect Branko Krstic. The monument is pictured as a obelisk rising from a step-long semicircular podium, as the dominant vertical height of 12 meters, symbolising the 12 days of struggle and being raised to the highest point above the Danube so that it can be seen from a greater distance. Today the mention of skeletons in Ritopek no longer has skeletons. Namely, in 1954, during the arrangement of the Memorial cemetery to the liberators of Belgrade and a few years later the memorial park on Čacalica, which I was already talking about, was eshumated the remains and transferred to these two cemeteries. Only a monument remains as one of the first and greatest monuments erected in honor of the Red Army fighters, as a testimony to the formation of monumental monuments in difficult postwar conditions. About the importance, symbolism, material and immaterial values of this mention of the ossuary, i.e. the established cultural good, i.e. I could say a lot more to the cultural monument. However, I only want to mention one fact, which is that we need to remember this past, and it is with pride that we should remember it and we should not forget it. In addition, the fact is that on the day of the 70th anniversary of the release of Ritopek and the release of the Municipality of Grock, a memory culture programme was held, organised by the management of the municipality of Grocko and the Centre for Culture of Grocko, and with the help of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments of the City of Belgrade. Now that I've already mentioned the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, I'd like to say that by seeing their documentation, it can be concluded that this monument is never finished. Therefore, this bill, or confirmation of this agreement, whose primary goal is to ensure a decent place of rest and preserve my memory of those who have given their lives, gives me hope and faith that perhaps one day the project of this monument will be fully realized. Until then, the monument will continue to stand on the hill and watch over the mighty river, as a testimony not so distant past, as a symbol of fighting for a better future, in fact, as a seal of one time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14574	The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14575	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, when it comes to hiring foreigners, is still in force, a law that was passed since 1978, with the latest changes made in 2005. It's known that this is a living area to work on all the time, and we see that it's been a pretty long period of time. In the very law that exists, there are some ambiguities, and therefore the possibility of different interpretations, which is, we will admit, something that no law needs, so that the adoption of a new law is more than necessary. Based on statistics, the Republic of Serbia is not an immigration area. But, as we all know very well, it's a very variable category, so it takes this area very precise, very detailed processing, to look at it in a comprehensive way. The reasons for the adoption of this law are numerous, from the very process of globalisation that goes at an incredible rate, already with us, to numerous multinational companies, the need for family integration. The most important reason is that we are harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. I would also point out once again that the adoption of this law creates a positive climate for foreign investment, which we need more than we need. Then, when it comes to issuing work permits, very precisely defined ways, as well as conditions for granting work permits. Before issuing any work permit, the MUP is doing a very detailed background check on a foreign citizen requesting permission to stay in our country, and the residence permit itself is a prerequisite for obtaining a work permit, in order to remove any dangers and obstacles of any kind, which would not be in favour of our country. Also, this law provides for supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as criminal provisions unless some legislative regulations are respected. In that case, the consequences are borne by an employer who employs a foreigner, as well as by a foreigner, but also by the National Employment Service itself. At the very end, what I would especially single out when it comes to this law, which is the best part of it, is that the law is extremely protective of a domestic worker, or of its own market, which is very important, by hiring foreigners, but in occupations that are deficiting, when we can do something from these foreigners and learn from them. The law also provides for the possibility of introducing quotas, i.e. restrictions on the number of foreigners that can be employed in the Republic of Serbia, of course, if there is a need for such a single step on the market. These are all reasons that show us that Serbia, on the one hand, is maximumly meeting European and global values and standards, and yet, on the other hand, in this very important process for us, it does not ignore and forget the best interests of our citizens. These are all the reasons why I believe this law should be supported and the SNS will do so in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14576	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Simic has the word, and then Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Vesna.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14577	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today two legislative rules, which we will certainly vote on in the voting day, given that it is all-inclusive regulations that lead to the best regulation of our legislation. First of all, I'm going to refer to the proposal for a law on foreign employment. Each country with a regulated legal system has regulated this matter with its legal acts. Both the SFRJ and the SRJ and the SCG, as well as the Republic of Serbia, dealt with the regulation of this matter. The next will of the people to join the EU, the Republic of Serbia must respect the International Labour Organisation conventions, on the basis of which it is arranged among other things and the employment of foreigners. The issue has also been legally defined by the 2008 Association Agreement between the EU and our country. If the society's intensity is to join the EU, then our legislation must also provide for the employment of foreigners as important EU assets, which will allow the freedom of movement of workers within the Union, and everything related to the 2004 directive. Applying that directive, full harmonisation of national legislation with EU laws is achieved. Our intention is for the Republic of Serbia to join the World Trade Organisation to demand, and in accordance with the law, that natural persons, i.e. that the possibility of employment in our country, in order to create, among other things, a positive climate for foreign investment, in a way that fully equalises our citizens and foreign citizens who are constantly resident in our country. In this way, this matter is accessed very transparently and in accordance with our socio-political and economic movements and definitions. Such principles were adopted by other EU member states. So, according to this law, a foreigner employed in the Republic of Serbia has the same rights and obligations regarding labour, employment and self-employment as citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the right to free access to the labour market has both EU citizens and members of the family of EU citizens, and family members include spouses married or out of marriage, direct descendants of EU citizens under the age of 21, adopted children or stepdaughters under the age of 21, unless they are able to support themselves and direct ancestors of EU citizens. However, the legislator's intrinsicity is that the numbered persons must not become an inappropriate burden to the social protection system of the Republic, i.e. they must have sufficient resources to support themselves and their family members. Free access to the labour market shall also be given to those persons who stop working during temporary inability to work, if they lose their job without their guilt, or the person is involved in an additional education and training programme. Of course, there are additional conditions for this, too. In order to be employed, a stranger must own, as has been pointed out by colleagues who had previously spoken about it, a temporary permit or permanent residence and a work permit that can be issued as a personal work permit and as a work permit. A personal work permit shall be issued at the request of a stranger but a work permit at the request of the employer. The importance of a personal work permit is linked to the validity of a document allowing a foreign citizen to stay in our country. The work permit shall be issued to the employer and therefore also contain certain obligations, but also restrictions for the employer. Therefore, an employer whose application has been issued cannot send a foreigner to work with another employer, is obliged to report him to compulsory social security, and so that employer bears the cost of issuing a work permit and cannot transfer this obligation to a foreigner. An employer can also hire a student, but in those cases where teaching activities are continued, a student can work no more than twenty hours a week or up to 80 hours a month. The employer can also hire a foreign citizen during the course of seasonal affairs. A work permit can also be issued for specific cases of employment, for posted persons, for movement within a business society as well as for independent professionals. The work permit for posted persons shall be issued between the employer for whom the services and the foreign employer are provided, but not for a period of more than one year. Licence for posted persons for the purchase of goods, purchase or hire of machinery, delivery, installation of the period needed to carry out this work and that is what is also of particular interest to our country. A work permit can also be issued for self-employment, but in that case, a stranger is obliged to start doing business within 90 days of obtaining a licence, otherwise it will not apply. The government may by decision limit the number of foreigners who are granted work permits in the event of labour market disturbances in accordance with migration policy. If the conditions provided for in this law are met, work permits may be extended. An application for an extension shall be submitted to the organisation responsible for employment operations. The work permit can also be cancelled. In what case? Where a foreigner performs operations for which no work permit has been issued, if the stranger does not start working within 15 days of the date of issue of the licence, if the stranger to whom the self-employment permit has not been granted does not start working within 90 days of the date of issue, or if, at the time of issue or extension, the conditions for issuing have not been met, or the extension of those authorisations provided for by law have not been fulfilled. In addition to the cancellation, the permit can cease to be valid. The organisation responsible for employment activities is obliged to keep track of work permits and of foreigners exercising their right to work. In addition to this law today, we are also talking about the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials. Since colleagues before me have talked a lot about this law, I will not take extra time, by pointing out that this is also an important law, because certainly, it is necessary to preserve the memory of people who gave their lives, both during World War I and during World War II, and we must not allow their bones to remain scattered around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14578	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Vulin, and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I see that the MPs of the Progressive Party look forward to this one dialogue that follows. I want to say that the New Party MPs will vote in favour of these two bill proposals. It wasn't enough, but here's to keep me going, to earn a little more applause. [[speak interrupted by SNS MPs applause]] So we will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on the employment of foreigners and a bill on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Serbian military memorials in the territory of the Russian Federation and Russian military memorials in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the occasion of the debate on these two draft laws, I would like, above all, to announce a few additional notes that I think can be used in the continued work of the Serbian Government, and also in this respect the legislative body of the Assembly, and the executive authorities, above all, the Government. In light of this proposal for a law on the employment of foreigners, I read that it says that this law is necessary to adopt among other reasons and that we should live in modern conditions of market economy and that our country belongs to these modern conditions of market economy. We also have a call for certain EU institutions' directives. Then I conclude that this is part of harmonising our right with the EU legal system and I think it's okay. Of course, the free market must finally be applied here, and of course Serbia should become a full member of the EU. But I have this one remark, one note from Minister Vulin, which I think is important, for both of these criteria that you've defined. It is not possible to live in the conditions of the modern market economy, and we will not be able to become a full member of the EU unless we provide one previous thing as a prerequisite for it, and it is respected gentlemen of the rule of law that we in this House should most insist on. It seems to me, Mr. Vulin, with respect to the quality of the proposal of the Foreign Employment Act, that the rule of law is now an obstacle. Or the level of attainment of the rule of law in our country is an obstacle to achieving these objectives, which are also cited in an explanation for the adoption of this law. I think it's enough to give you two examples of how I see it now as an obstacle. One thing, we even here, with the consent of the assembly majority, above all SNS MPs, have succeeded, imagine, Mr. Vulin, to adopt some unconstitutional laws. Not only that, but the judiciary as one fundamental pillar of this modern democracy in our country is as much as I can see in the collapse. It's not possible to partially regulate things. That we have one bill of law that we say is good, and on the other hand that we have in each place a violation of one of the fundamental principles of our Constitution, which is the principle of rule of law. Secondly, I think it is quite right to further and better regulate the conditions and procedures of employment of persons who do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. They are precisely listed here in this bill and conditions for hiring foreigners, especially in Article 5, for example, conditions for the employment of EU citizens. I think it is good to foresee legally that possibility for someone from the EU to come here and work. I am even in agreement with the MPs of the SNS, Mrs Alexic, for example, and Mrs Simic, who mentioned it, but I also believe that here we need Mr Vulin, to develop an economic policy that will ensure long-term and sustainable employment on non-foreign persons, citizens of our republic. It's my opinion that it's possible to do over three things and think about it. Maybe in some kind of announcement of future draft laws. First, we need to increase the demand for work, and this is always done in terms of modern market economy through the development and growth of the private sector. Here we must ensure agreement on this, and then institutional reforms that would make the labour market more flexible, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14580	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14581	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I don't like to use criticism in my life for criticism, like the predecessor did even though I praised the law, but in the end he still has to find something, just so there's criticism. It's usually called criticism. The law itself is very good and what I like, Mr. Vulin in this law, is that you went from assuming to protecting yourself above all a domestic worker, no matter what a foreigner is employed. We now have clear standards as to how a stranger can get a job. With this connection, while we are already talking about the free market in the EU, it is good that you started with this logic because some countries in the EU are protecting their labour market precisely from possibly uncontrollable employment of foreigners, and that is to say, even for some countries that are members of the EU. You have as many examples as you want today as only the UK allows you to work on its territory. Let's say people who come from Bulgaria, Romania or some other countries. In France and Germany, it is already becoming more difficult, because they have passed a series of laws that in some ways prevent it, protect its market. I'm glad to get away from that logic. All right, we allow free market, but you have clearly defined norms about how a stranger can get a job, and with that, this is something that's good and something that deserves every praise. It took a long time to bring something like this, unfortunately it wasn't passed, unfortunately, someone here has been developing unemployment more than he's employed, precisely because of the lack of such a law. You, if you don't have clearly defined norms, how can someone here open a factory, if he's a stranger, how can he hire someone, maybe from his own country? By the way, you don't even have the safety to invest anything here and do it. We are now passing a law that absolutely regulates and stimulates, in a way, a foreign investor to come and have a certain kind of legal certainty and that here, of course, employs both domestic and foreign. I am pleased that you have made an ambitious wish, which is that unemployment in Serbia decreases to below 20%. I think you'll do it by the end of the year. It's a big deal. Serbian citizens must know that in 2012, we found an unemployment rate of 26 per cent and a few per cent, which was a disaster, it was reduced today, it seems to me to be about 20 per cent, which is a big, big success. Someone is going to say, and it is, but it's because employers started reporting workers who were employed by them on black, and it's a great success, and it's also the success of this country to force the labour inspection and the tax administration to do very well their job and that employers started to report workers. Of course it's something that's good. That worker started getting social, pension, etc. which he had previously been denied. A respected colleague of Rakonjac said, right in Krusevec, about 300 and some jobs should be opened tomorrow, after New Year's Eve, another hundred, which is for every possible praise. Wherever we open up a new workplace, it's the greatest patriotism of the day, to allow people to work. It's really something to be commended for. This government has managed to reduce unemployment by almost 6%. Congratulations on that. In addition to the Labour Act, which you have brought, that is, brought by this Assembly, and of course the Government has proposed this law, I think that we are very good at regulating this labour market. I think that people see it slowly and we can't keep on criticizing it, but if you're already giving some criticism, it should be concrete and say what's wrong. I'm glad to hear less and less criticism from the opposition's ranks on the draft of your laws, especially from your ministry, Mr. Vulin. I think it's a very, very good reference for you, too. In any case, when the day comes to vote, we will accept something like this because we protect, first of all, our workers, regardless of what this law is about hiring foreigners, but the rules are clearly put on, how a stranger can be employed, how he can work, how he can open an enterprise, and I think it gives legal certainty to the stranger himself, and that here, of course, foreign investors will come and hire our workers, and I don't see why not and someone who's an ordinary expert from whom we can learn from abroad. Anyway, thank you, and I'm sure we'll support something like this in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-24-0.u14582	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? (No one) Thank you. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. The 11th and 12th agenda. Since we have to wait for the government's opinion on the amendments that have been filed, we'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 111 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
