ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12520	Thank you. Therefore, the draft law amending the Law on Judges has proposed that the amendments to that law enter into force on the next day of publication, as this is necessary in order to fulfil the international obligations arising from the membership of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. Since we believe that membership in itself, not from membership in the Council of Europe, does not result in the obligation to adopt this regulation or in terms of deadlines, we felt that it is necessary for the proposing to state, in the draft law or in the course of this debate, on the basis of which act may be the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to establish it. Since the promoter did not do so, nor stated which, possibly, the act set the deadline for meeting this obligation, we do not consider that the conditions for the application of the exemption allowed by the Constitution to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication. This is the way we feel that an unnecessary exception is transformed into a rule that certainly does not contribute to legal certainty or respect for the principle of constitutionality, the legality for which we all assume to be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12521	Thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendment, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the draft law of the 2nd agenda: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Olgica Batić, Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinović and Balša Bozovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Representatives of the promoters and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, we have submitted as the President of the National Assembly here has now read, amendment to Article 3. The draft law amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and we believe that Article 3 as provided for by this bill should be deleted. I would just like to remind the MPs that this article is intended for one person who passes the judicial exam to be immediately admitted to a working relationship instead of what it has been so far to have the advantage of considering a reception contest compared to other candidates. We have, in reason, respected gentlemen, first and foremost the MPs, stated because this bill was sent by the MPs, not by the government, 199 of them, and therefore I believe that there is still a chance that this will change. We have written the following in an explanation, gentlemen, – the objective of the amendment to the bill is to exclude any kind of abuse when a prosecutor is admitted to a working relationship indefinitely. Given that our assumption is that we all know here how a commission can be formed to assess on a judicial exam, that the minister plays a role in this process. Now, Minister of Justice, Minister Selakovic, and for example, if we had one opinion and a statement from the Anti-Corruption Agency that voices a terrible doubt, for example, in the work of the minister of justice, we believe that it is fairer and much better to remain that formulation that has been so far. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12523	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12524	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will not accept this amendment and there are many reasons why we do not want to accept that Article 3 is deleted. In Article 3, because of the public, because of those who have not read this bill, it is said - in Article 123 paragraph 2 "she has an advantage at reception", they are replaced by the words "accepted". If we know that for the past three years five people, not 35 people, not 105 people, five people have passed the distinction exam, I think it's much more practical, it's much better, that these people don't just have an advantage, because having an advantage is a relative thing. It may be a stronger advantage to be a member of some political party, which we did not want. Or is the strength of familiarity, for example, with Mr Pavicevic. Why would that be an advantage? Advantage is to pass the exam with distinction. That way we want to remove every smell of politics, every smell of some things that are not needed. We want to introduce a healthy game and people to try, to finish law school in time, to finish with the best grades, to pass the honor exam and to have a country to tell them – yes, we need you. We need people who pass quality exams, not to have the advantage of adding to that advantage some other advantage that is more difficult or stronger than that familiarity, for example, to the applicant of the amendment, Mr Pavicevic. No, we need people of knowledge and we want to open a game like that. I will not talk about what my distinguished colleagues and Mr. Orlic and Mrs. Biljana Pantic Pilja said was also a alignment with the Law on Judges. Why should one thing apply to judges and when they lay down with distinction and another thing for prosecutors? Why should we be more restrictive for other people? This harmonisation with legislation is a clear message to young people to compete in knowledge, to acquire knowledge, but also to clear message and state that they were for the state, whether they were judges tomorrow, whether they were prosecutors, anything, that we needed the best people we wanted to hire. By erasing this article, as predicted by the amendment's proposal, would allow membership in the political party, familiarity with Mr Pavicevic, as an influential MP, to be more powerful, more priority than knowledge. I think that motive is a bad motive, because we want to put knowledge as first-ranking and that these people, and I'm telling you, in the last three years, five of them are like that, that they need the state, and that they get a chance to work. That is why the SNS in the voting day will be against such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12525	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I just need to say a few things in defense of our amendment, and contrary to what Mr Babic's argument was now. Of course, as applicants of this amendment, we feel that students and students of law schools should work as hard as possible, learn, achieve the best result, in order to achieve their professional ambitions, which are related to good work and engagement, for example. In the D.A.'s office. I believe that our amendment does not in any way create obstacles for students and students of law schools to do well. Another thing, gentlemen, I think Mr. Babic has replaced some last name here. I don't believe there's any person here who believes that any acquaintance would, for example, be. Mr. Pavicevic, we could say in Serbia today that he provides someone with a easier walk towards some positions. Dear gentlemen, I think that Mr. Babic here meant the second name, the Minister of Justice in the government in resignation, because we, respected Mrs. Gojkovic, ask that Mr. Babic hears only that, we believe that familiarity with Mr. Selakovic, must not provide any passage for some candidates in Serbia's justice system as he is today. Our amendment is just creating another possibility for these candidates to be checked, so that we have just eliminated the possibility that some party acquaintances, such as today's case, including Minister Selakovic, will be the basis for some decision-making. I urge you to reconsider and accept our amendment. Thank you. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12527	I don't see you just in the system. You can do it by the Rules of Procedure, by amendment. Here you go. I ask the MPs to have the understanding that I will delete them, you will report after Ambassador Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12528	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - dignity, and dignity is injured when disinformation is spread, especially from a place that should be the source of real information and truth, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We have 208 MPs here who support the government of the Republic of Serbia who, thank you for asking, is excellent, but since I have just seen Mr. Zorn Zivkovic leave the assembly hall hastening, I believe that he is running to the office to finally maintain his word and resign, and that is the only resignation the Serbian public expects to finally keep his word, if he has the honesty and honesty and consistency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12529	Article 107 speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. I have to admit, I've lost track of him using the term "in resignation" again. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: The office. It's for the office, yeah. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, wait for your colleagues to follow the amendment and then you will spend your time. Again, if you know I'm not calling someone, one must go through the discussion to see the other MPs. There's a lot of misunderstanding with MPs, they think I'm skipping someone. I'm not skipping anyone. The word is Biljana Pantić Pija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12530	Thank you. The previous speaker, and I don't mean Mr. Zoran Babic, was talking about familiarity when it comes to taking a judicial exam. Does this mean that someone from Vojvodina, Novi Sad, is passing a judicial exam before the commission formed by the AP Vojvodina, will pass this judicial exam for his acquaintance with Mr. Bojan Pajtic? Please don't insult me or my colleagues who have been taking justice before that committee. As far as this amendment is concerned, I think that the applicant of the amendment in this way prevents the most respected trainees from establishing a working relationship and from being rewarded for their knowledge, for their work and for their efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12531	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12532	On the occasion of the proposed amendment of the independent MPs, I would like to say that by affirming young and professional staff for the admission to work in the public prosecutor's office, the proposed amendments to the law are further motivated by their admission to working relations, and thinks of those candidates who have achieved the best results during training and passing exams, not in the form of an advantage in employment, but in the form of an obligation for such candidates to be admitted into a working relationship. I don't know what abuse the promoter of this amendment means, because I hope he knows that the law is the same for everyone. If all candidates pass a judicial exam with a trait, they will all be admitted to a working relationship, and in as many places as possible, such places can be filled in by carrying out competitions where all citizens who meet the law of the prescribed conditions can compete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12533	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12534	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can, in part, understand the concerns of the opposition MPs about their amendment, that is, the solution we have proposed in the law. At first, I must say that there is nothing more beautiful than that for the prosecutor's assistants to accept those who pass the exam with the highest marks. So, not to have an advantage, but to have to get a job. There's nothing more beautiful than having someone's hard work, rewarding the knowledge of being admitted to work, and not just being seen as some kind of advantage that can be used and not necessarily. We, as legislators, have assessed this acquired knowledge with the highest assessment as a condition that someone must be accepted after receiving the highest assessment in the judicial exam, that this admission to the prosecutor's assistants must be carried out, that such a candidate must be accepted indefinitely, which has not been the case so far. I think we should reward, especially young people. I understand the concern about the political possibilities, the concern about the functioning of the Justice Ministry, about the minister of justice from those who have abused it in their time. I'll give you examples. Former Justice Minister Mrs. Snezana Malovic passed a judicial exam before her godfather. I therefore appreciate that they are afraid that what they were doing not to repeat themselves on this other side, so we have therefore suggested that prosecutors be accepted for the highest grades, and not for the sake of acquaintances, so I will say that the godfather of the former justice minister, who, by emergency procedure, organized this passing of the judicial exam, was the gentleman who was arrested in the Index affair, a professor at the Law School in Kragujevac. With that, I appreciate the concern of the opposition who knows what she was doing, what was going on before, so they fear for that reason that it would not happen again, but cannot be repeated since we as MPs have suggested that the reception be done for the best of knowledge and not for calling. I'll also indicate why they're worried. Let's say, because of the familiarity of any justice ministers with certain people who can make a reception, well, let's say, war crimes prosecutor. He accepted the former justice minister, but not from the justice minister's post, but from the party's post. So she was employed in the DS. After that, she went directly from the party to work at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. That's why they're worried that this government might do something similar, to move someone directly from the party's political line to the prosecution, which was the case. However, this law guarantees that this is not possible, and this article is just said that prosecutors must be accepted by persons with the highest marks when they pass a judicial exam. I appreciate their concern about other matters, too, so I'm going to give an example of a prosecutor who's never been elected to the Assembly and works for the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. His name is Bruno Vekaric. The law says that prosecutors cannot be elected or appointed a person who has not passed at least one choice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Someone prove to me that Mr Bruno Vekaric has ever passed the first election in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That choice simply wasn't there, but thanks to political ties, thanks to the links precisely to those proposed by the amendment to erase someone by their knowledge must be accepted indefinitely. It's because of their earlier screwups, because of what they did, that they suggest that this solution, which we just, end and leave an old solution, that eventually still through prosecutors and judges, which they have in the judicial system, try to hire their own people from the party, that they hire on the political line, that they hire by calling, not by knowledge, because we have proposed a far more just solution and I think this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12535	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12536	As vice president of this proposal, and I want to say that I do not support this amendment, and I absolutely need it in the voting day to reject it. Advantage should be given to knowledge. I don't find it strange that such an amendment has been submitted, because it is a relic of past times, something that has been in Serbia so far. The party's red or yellow book had an advantage over any other or familiarity with any politician, an influential man, rich and so on, and it was easier to reach a responsible function in the public sector or in Serbia's judiciary, so I am not surprised that these amendments continue to arrive from people who cannot adapt to new times and that Serbia is going to the EU and to reach those standards, so that those who do not understand these standards and can submit such amendments. You know, it's very important here that the advantage is given to knowledge of anything other than party membership, familiarity, nepotism and so on, for the simple reason that it's standards in all civilized normal states, and that doesn't mean that people will benefit you. These good and best students or who have the best grades in the judicial exam don't mean that they'll benefit, they'll have other options, but just because they're the best, we have to give them an advantage over everyone else, so they know they don't have competition, because competition will be on the other hand. For example, the Finnish PKK will want to have such lawyers now that it has finished the factory in Smederevo on the basis of the agreement made by this government, the Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic or the US "Esmark style" will want to have the best and will pay them best thanks to the fact that it comes to a modern steel plant based on the work of this government and the agreement of Mr. Alexander Vukic. In order to be able to compete with those from the economy, we need to enable these people to have an advantage over everyone else and not have competition, but to be their personal choice. It is who is influential or not who can be influential and that now the arms and stories about who is influential or not or the story of the free media currently in Serbia are said to have just been the only one of us who, the day after the adoption of a set of reform laws with heavy measures, was a guest on one television with a national frequency and talked about it without any of us on the other hand, to cross the arguments about what we did on this issue and how good it is or not good about budget rebalances, pension laws, public sector wages and so on. Still some, although they have 0.0001% of citizens' support in Serbia, are easier to reach the media with a national frequency than some who have 55% of citizens in Serbia. I repeat, this amendment should absolutely not be accepted because it is an outdated amendment of some former times, which does not lead Serbia forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12537	The word is made by MP Branka Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12538	Dear Presidents, fellow Members of Parliament, I, as a signator, and by doing so as to propose these amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to say that I do not support the amendment to Article 3 of this Bill for the reason that we are finally returning these amendments to our young people, students, students first and foremost. So we're kind of restoring those moral norms that make me think we've forgotten a little over the past ten years and lost them. We return the right values, and that's work and expertise first of all. We all know what happened and how it happened in the judiciary in general, that means the prosecution, in the last period, and how judges and prosecutors were elected. We all know what happened in the 2009 reform. The reform has personally hooked me up, too, because I was a judge by 2009. Believe me, to this day I can't explain to my son, who's on master's studies, which is why his mother lost her job in 2009, except for being a member of the SNS. By the results and the quality of my work, I was the third of the 36 judges in my court. I fully support this bill and believe that expertise, work and quality must be a primate in the reception of people employed in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12539	The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12540	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, this amendment as it is, it is deleted, it really doesn't deserve attention. However, what has drawn my attention, this is an explanation given in addition to this amendment - the objective of the amendment to the bill's proposal to exclude any kind of abuse in the reception of the prosecutor's intern. This is completely illogical and contradictory because precisely with this provision, with this change the space for any abuse is excluded. Namely, any trainee who passes a judicial exam with a distinction will no longer be in a position to consider it as an advantage, can but doesn't have to accept it in a working relationship, but has now reduced that space for abuse and is determined to receive it in a working relationship. There is no reason for the amendment's proposer to be concerned about any abuses as the SNS promised citizens in the election campaign that it would continue to work on judicial reform and correct the mistakes made in that so-called. reforms. Just to remind you, the previous colleague has already said a few words, as the choice of judges and prosecutors was made at the end of 2009 by the first summons of the High Council of the judiciary, which was elected in an illegal manner, which works in incomplete composition. The choice was conducted without predetermined procedures, without certain criteria regarding expertise, skills and dignity. The election was made to the extent of one side, the Democratic Party, which was then in power and is no longer at all controversial. There's a series of evidence for that. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic himself, the president of the SNS, said in his exposé here in this assembly that judicial reform will be a pillar of reform of the overall state system and create a more favourable climate for foreign investment. He also pledged that by the end of the year a series of laws would be passed that would create a more favourable legal framework for a better and more efficient judiciary. For these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected and the proposal accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12541	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12542	This discussion is clear evidence that it was necessary to put in the procedure of such an amendment, because it has caused obviously great panic in the ranks of those who have proposed and the obvious intention of what to do with the evaluation of the prosecutor's interns. Of course, it's good for people who are smart, who know, who have been good students, who have proven themselves well on that condition, probationary work, to get a job, but it's also good to pass another check and to give opportunities to others who haven't received such a high grade, for perhaps some reasons that are objective nature. That automatism of giving grades from, you don't know who, or read it to know who, is a bad precedent, and it doesn't exist anywhere. Let's hire doctors like that, so that whoever's the best neurosurgeon that, if God doesn't, someone needs a surgery like that, goes to the best student, or chooses a good doctor. I don't think there's any reason not to accept this amendment if the legislator's intentions are honorable, if they don't have this hidden desire to in some forged way, whether it's plagiarized or it's cheating or someone loses the prosecution's identity, so they falsify it, so they make a new prosecutor's office, but it's certainly important that in the state of Serbia, which, unfortunately, is not only by the guilt of this government, but, at this point, this government, still an example of a state in which no one has confidence. In this country, neither its citizens trust nor its investors trust domestic and foreign. In this state, or state administration, when I say state, I mean state administration, in this state administration, they don't trust, of course, the people of the opposition, in this country, they don't trust people who are serious about journalism. In this country, neither representatives of the authorities constantly accuse some state authorities of working one way or another. That's why the government has brought itself to the brink of resignation and should take that one step forward while it's already on that edge. It is necessary to create new mechanisms, i.e. additional mechanisms for not having counterfeits of this species or of that species, plagiarized or lost, in an important institution such as the prosecution. I'm sure there are a lot of good lawyers who started their careers in one of the prosecutions as interns. The same goes for interns in courts. It is the same for some people who have started their traineeship career in some other state bodies, that they want to be good officials, that they want to be with knowledge, honesty, law enforcement, effective work, and I am sure that at this time when, unfortunately, the only job that can be found in this country, a job in a state firm, a public enterprise or in some part of the administration, that competition will be great and that it will be good for the employer, to choose the best of these good ones. We've had prosecutors and prosecutorial interns and associates and prosecutors so far, and they've been chosen in a way that's been common until now. I'm sure in this room most of us share trust at least in that part of the state's system, which is the prosecution. Simply, we voted together for some of them in this session, elected both prosecutors and their deputies, and we probably did so not only by becoming workers of the traineeship, but also because someone assessed them, someone followed their work, which doesn't always have to be based on the perfect impression of someone who, for example, as Minister Selakovic has been punished or already proposed for a shift before this government fall by a competent institution called the Anti-Corruption Agency. So if you have more evidence that there is corruption in the Serbian government than that the Anti-Corruption Agency has asked for the minister's resolution, then I think we have a big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12543	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12544	I'll get the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the concerns of the opposition MPs who suggested that this member be deleted. For the sake of our viewers, to be clear to them, the amendments proposed that a member of the law we, as a group of MPs, be deleted in the Prosecutors' Law. So, we have suggested that in a permanent working relationship the prosecutor's assistants who passed the judicial exam with the highest marks. I'm undermining again, there's nothing more beautiful than rewarding someone's hard work and knowledge by not only having the advantage, but being admitted to the prosecution's work. I think it's the most just thing for everyone who works hard in their careers, in their education to use their knowledge, in their efforts, in their sweat, in their perseverance to take a position, according to their knowledge to acquire and call. I think we have proposed a fair solution and just for the sake of the viewers to know, who are following this transmission, that the amendment's proposing that such a proposal, or such a member, be deleted and that these candidates have an advantage, but do not have to be accepted. I am already saying what we had in earlier practice, that a former justice minister would pass a judicial exam in front of his best man, who was arrested in the Index affair, that a certain prosecutor in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office would be elected, appointed, and that he had never passed the first election in the Assembly, which is a legal obligation, that no longer happens in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office to receive a former justice minister, but not even from the place of the minister of justice, but from the order of employees, because then it was okay for employees in the DS to work there for several months and to appear at work at the maximum three times, but to receive a salary of 120,000 dinars per month. In order to avoid such failures, we have proposed a fair solution for the prosecution to be accepted by prosecutors who pass the exam with the highest marks and that in such situations they not only have the advantage, but that these persons are admitted to work indefinitely. We have avoided every possible political influence, every possible nepotism. Here, I bet I don't have any of the relatives in the D.A.'s office, but I bet the amendment promoter has any of the relatives in the D.A.'s office. If that is not the case, I will resign, but if the amendment promoter has someone who is employed in the prosecution, then let the amendment promoter, one of them, resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12545	The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I agree with both Mrs Pilja and Mr Shormaz, Djurisic and Babić that this Assembly is the right place to cross the arguments on various proposals tabled by MPs from different political parties here. I believe that this discussion that we have now is a confirmation that every single person sitting here in the National Assembly is the idea of getting the best possible solution. We believe, here I think, that it is best to accept this amendment to Article 3 and I will offer, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, four more arguments on the basis of which I believe this amendment should be accepted. Dear gentlemen, I believe that our proposal that predicts there is another level, another possibility of checking for someone who is otherwise successful, is now providing additional competence. That, gentlemen, means we want to boost competition. That, gentlemen, is exactly what you suggest during the debate, but not this point of the bill, which is what we encourage students and students to learn more, to work better, to compete with each other so that, after all the checks, the best can take this place in the prosecution, gentlemen. That's one argument. The second thing, we think that to choose these positions, you need to provide more levels and options for checking. Why do we think that's good? First, because we want to choose the best, and secondly, because it is our amendment that we propose that familiarity with anyone, and with Mr Babic, for example, and with Mr Selakovic, who is today the minister of justice, be the basic criterion for taking some important place in the prosecution. I don't see why any MP would have anything against that argument, that familiarity is not a basic criterion, but a matter of expertise that we come to on a number of levels of verification is the basis for receiving these positions, gentlemen. I understand you're here for that. If you're up for it, then let's accept our amendment to Article 3. That was another argument. The third argument, please, is at least one thing that gives us a terrible doubt that the solution provided for by this bill, which was submitted by the MPs, 199, will be the best. Why? Because the role in the formation of this commission, which is due to be evaluated, has been given by the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic. We've said it here many times. We did not state here that he should be resolved, although we can also belong to that category of people, but rather the Anti-Corruption Agency, based on a certain action by Mr Selakovic, who was the minister of justice, asked for the release of Justice Minister Selakovic. Now we are preparing a bill that ensures that such a person, who has raised a terrible doubt about the security of his work, at least for the people of the Anti-Corruption Agency, should ensure that he, who plays a role in forming a commission, is admitted to work immediately. We're against it, gentlemen. In the end, another argument, which gives me doubts that the proposal should be accepted as it is and that is why we have submitted the amendment. Let's see, here we are today, in what state the judiciary is in today, gentlemen. We have an attorney strike that lasts two months now. Part of the justice system is, gentlemen, blocked. We had an illegal formation of the Chamber of Public Records. There were supposed to be 100...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12547	MP, let's focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12548	Yes, this is the fourth argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12549	I believe it's a little too wide, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12550	Thanks for the intervention. It's 94 illegal, and it's 100. We now need to have a terrible faith in this man and in the system that's in the blockade. He can't, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12551	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12552	Thank you, Madam President. By listening to the previous speaker, I was convinced by the argument he made that he would point with a sentence – we are giving up on this amendment. Everything he said goes in favour of this bill of law and competition and with as much knowledge and control as possible and absolutely everything he said goes in favour of the draft law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law, but he didn't score. As far as I'm concerned, even though it's not a topic, and I don't want to talk off topic, the Anti-Corruption Agency, I'm much more concerned about it, and I think some people in this country should worry more about the squareness of the building where the Agency is. Where did 600 squares that cost the state a million and a half euros get lost? Since this isn't the prosecution, since this isn't a court, I won't talk about it, but I'm sure it'll be a topic in our society, but God damn it, both for the prosecution and for the court. So much for the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also for those people who have done these things and provided them. (Gordana Comić, from the scene: terrible. ) In that I agree with someone who threw and said – terrible. Yeah, it's scary. As far as this amendment is concerned, two different images of our country are visible on this amendment. You can see a picture of a state that wants to change, reform and see a picture of a state that wants to go back and forth. On the one hand, you can see, in the draft law, the desire to professionalise, to depolitize, and, as we did in sports, we do and we work in other segments of our society, so we came up with one opportunity to do something like that in the prosecution. The bill stipulates that those with the best grades, with the mark they receive in front of seven members of the Commission from the ranks of lawyers, judges, or prosecutors, professors from the Faculty of Law, have passed seven different exams and over the past three years five young people have received a medal. We want these people who get a medal, taking seven exams, in front of seven judges, which is terribly difficult, getting a job, getting a chance to be automatically employed. We have this second picture that's being looked at in the amendment and in the amendment's proposal that says yes, but we want additional control. That extra control is probably party control, personal control that these people who get a medal in front of seven professors, seven lawyers, prosecutors, come, say, to the amendment promoter and get a final court. Is something like that normal? No, it's not normal, but from the evidence that Mr. Marijan Risticevic, a respected colleague, has shown that it has been in the past. That is why I say that in this way and through this amendment, two Serbias are looking at each other. One Serbia who wants to move forward, reform, change, professionalise, appreciate knowledge, and not familiarity, say, with the amendment's proposal, where the final exam should be passed with the amendment's promoter, in a way known as handicraft, which is known to say, yes, it will be in the prosecutor's office and I'll do what you want to do, so I'll give someone back the passport, so I won't press charges, so I'll put someone in a round drawer. As a result, and because of this handiwork and the way in which prosecutors and judges were appointed on the basis of handiwork and familiarity, we came to the situation that in 2012 we found two indictments in the Special Court of Organized Crime, in a country which was an example until 2012 in which organised crime and corruption flourished, both in the thick darkness and in the cove that covered those charges. That's why it had to change power, it had to be, not released, only that what the Constitution guaranteed the judiciary to provide, which is that they do according to the law, according to the Constitution, rather than on the basis of the handiwork that the amendment promoter would want to reintroduce in our judicial system. One hundred and fifty-eight indictments have been filed and 158 indictments have been confirmed. This way and this amendment shows two different images of our society, one that is washed, which is honest, based on knowledge, which is based on quality and that people who pass with distinction work for this country work honestly, work honestly, work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. It was a time when our ministries ran people who had completed colleges and passed major exams after five October changes and had passed more exams in the month of November and December 2000 than for all 12 or 13 years before. It was a time when familiarity was a priority for this country and this bill and by refusing this amendment, we send a clear message, there are no additional checks, no security checks, so let's see if Grandpa was in Democratic, Advanced or this or that party, so that it's burdensome or not. It is related to some services that I believe the amendment's proposings would be very much back, but in this way we want to keep young people in our country, that young people who take their place with honour and in that branch, but also in many other dams, stay in the country, work for Serbia, build and make Serbia that will be much better than it is now, and this one is now much better than it was until two years ago. If someone gets caught and wonders if the bill's promoter had any honesty, first they should look at themselves in a mirror that I will gladly give, I hope that my distinguished colleagues will present and provide such a mirror, and when they look in the mirror, I believe that they will run to the Office and hold their words and resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12553	Now in line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12554	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, because I am the promoter of the amendment. He spoke incorrectly of me, didn't understand the amendment, what other reason? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12555	It has nothing to do with the amendment. Let Gordana Komic go, you will have time to speak by amendment. You've got some time left, so I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12556	Thank you. I use the time of the parliamentary group and support the amendment submitted by the MPs, counterparts Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. With several remarks, listening carefully to various arguments why the amendment should not be accepted, in the best style and manner of speakers who have not doubted that they have read the law, but the interestingness was because all discussions about why it should be rejected, without having anything to do with what it says in the amendment and the addition of the Law. It's a question of creativity, imagination. There is one saying used by my colleague Nada Lazic's mother, now if she were me, she would say – it's a little embarrassing, but useful. I don't think it's useful for anyone, especially in the context of defending the idea of amendments to invent things that don't write in this bill. So, what exactly is it about, in the bill before us and in Article 3 on which fellow MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment, which I agree with? The amendment says that in Article 123 in the second sentence – the priority when receiving is replaced by words – is understood. What is this about, Article 123? He's got two bets. The 1st position discusses the reception of prosecutors' interns for three years, and the 2nd position on the reception of prosecutors' associates for indefinite working hours. How do you even get a place to work? By deciding on the number of staff, the public prosecutor decides by means of a systematisation act with the agreement of the justice minister, in order to be able to implement the act brought by the public prosecutor must be in the Public Prosecutor's Law, specified how you can accept the prosecutor's associate. So far, the law has stated that the person who passed with honor has the advantage of being accepted. Now, without any words or arguments, why it is a good solution, and with many words that are embarrassing, but probably useful, it is said that these words are replaced by words – it is understood. How bad is this solution can be said by anyone who knows that at the reception of the prosecutor's associate's employment, the Law on Deputys and Civil servants applies. This Article 3 is just enough to illustrate the well-intentionedness and the knowledge of amendments and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavic.... (Vučeta Toskovic, from town: Au, au. People's MPs earn – and that's also embarrassing, but they probably think it's useful. No, it's completely in vain. It is completely in vain for several reasons, because if the defence strategy of this bill is to show a new profile and a new relationship between the ruling majority, then it fails for anyone who reads the law or knows how to receive a prosecutor's associate. If it's just fun then it is useful, because it's not bad for the ruling majority to have fun throwing it away. It's an atmosphere in the National Assembly. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Is this an amendment? ) People's MPs earn – is that an amendment? It is, just as much as the amendment is all what we heard in the reasons of the amendments, and I can quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12557	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12558	I have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12559	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12560	Nothing, it's happening. So, this amendment is well-intentioned and with a lot of knowledge because if you accept and vote to receive it, then what do you need a contest for? Then why do you need anything? Then what do you need anything else if he's got to take it? Chuck, in one discussion, they were told to be automatically employed. So the number of staff will be determined by the attorney general. For example, in a systematisation act, he will say -- one is accepted as a prosecutor's associate, according to Article 123, as will be read from now on. If you get two, who are you going to see? The law tells you you must accept both. If three of you sign up, who are you going to see? If no one is registered with a special decision, who will you receive? The problem will arise in the application of the Law on civil servants and tenants, as you say in the law – it is understood. There's someone here who wants to be a prosecutor's intern. He's got to be accepted if he passed with a medal. He can't have the advantage. Then why would anyone else sign up? How do you think you support competition in any way? If a public prosecutor says he doesn't need staff to be admitted, which is less important, but it's very important that without enough thought, with enough imagination and creativity that I don't dispute, it's legitimate, that in the heat of rhetorical gifts of all of us sitting here defends something that doesn't appear in the law. It's not useful because this is going to make decisions in real life. The decision to have an advantage is more natural and normal and as such it is understood that the advantage is undeniable. You forgot to add another member change, some other laws to remove this. You forgot that there is real life and that if you now have five people, excellent, working, nothing about them I'm not talking about, who want to become prosecutor's associates and will call a competition, or that the consent of the justice minister will have to be by systematized five, the problem is solved. What are you going to do with the others? The imagination used to ignore the clarification of things that I'm asking here and which I know the answer will be similar to yesterday when you're told that the SDPR hired in a year from 494 to 642 because the APR has the data, and you're lying. So I don't expect an answer from anyone in the ruling majority. I'm telling you why this amendment is good, because the proposed solution creates a problem that has been avoided so far. I don't dispute any criticism of poor admission to prosecutorial interns or prosecutor's associates. Far from disputed political influence when it comes to judicial employment, the prosecution, ministries, agencies, anywhere, but I argue that by creative approach and in the desire that none of these laws write real debates that have a completely different purpose, which is legitimate but also useless. Those who support that the ruling majority is impeccable and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does what is immaculately not necessary, and for those of us who are critical of the government's work, always ready to praise what is right, but critically speaking what is wrong is also unnecessary, because we think with our heads, we check and watch, but it is legitimate. What's a question of whether it's completely legitimate is when we hear from the promoters that the impact on the examination committees is being achieved from different levels of government. Examining committees are educated by the minister of justice. The Minister of Justice shall educate each examination committee and the Minister of Justice shall choose on the examination committee the people he considers to be willing to do his job on the examination committee before which he is subject to professional and quality and as required by the rules. Every minister of justice. I'd, uh, this is a brief depression, maybe talk about that solution. It might be a good idea that at some point when we're all going to have a lot of work to do together to check the application of laws and regulations regarding judicial reform so that this authority is not in the hands of the Minister of Justice. I'm not sure, and I have no reason to say, but I do know a few different examples of who educates examination committees in different systems where people take this difficult exam, and that's where they totally agree with their colleagues. But it's not the subject of the law here. So, in short, my support for the amendment because we have a problem with the process after the number of staff is decided by the public prosecutor, which we have a problem with the Law on State officials and deputies, and it would be good to make that kind of thing clear here and that as much as we talk about what is in the law and less about what we think is useful and that we should talk about a law that is passed by MPs. In the end, one good news. Whatever it says in these drafts of the law, whatever the MPs say, whether they read the law or not, I am very glad that the law was passed by the MPs. However it comes to his text and however it is defended, I think it is good news for the National Assembly that the MPs propose, by their will and knowledge, the defenses and in the procedure of the Assembly, the drafts of the laws that we are discussing without the Government. I hope so also when it comes to considering either my law amending the Law on the financing of political activity or the law of any of the colleagues in the majority, because I also consider it a good skill for this Parliament to have similar or similar ideas when it comes to changing the regulation that has been passed, and as regards funding for political activities. In that part, I am absolutely sure that despite the folklore and creativity that we approach in defense of these solutions, we will have enough will for dialogue and bring a solution that will be good for the Assembly, or that the Assembly can signal that this solution is good for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12561	Thank you. Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12562	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know what it is - useful. Is that more useful or less useful? I don't know in that graduation, it's not clear to me, but let's be useful to what I'm about to say, I hope that the amendment promoter, but also those who defend the indefensible attempt to hear something like that with their eyes open, not just out of pure political interpretation to defend what's indefensible. The judicial exam is passed before five commissions in Serbia. Three organised and formed by the Ministry of Justice and two commissions that organise the laying of the Regional Secretariat for Education, Regulations, the administration of a national minority. I accept what the pay phone said earlier that it wasn't safe. Now she can be safe, so much about responsibility, exclusive responsibilities of the minister of justice. However, what is much more interesting, which I would like my colleagues to inform and read Article 66. Court-order law, for example. That article 66. The law on the regulation of courts has the title – the working relationship of a judicial intern. He says – the jurisprudence officer is admitted to a three-year working relationship, a judicial intern who was evaluated with – passed with a medal, is admitted to a working relationship for an indefinite period of time to call a judicial associate. This law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was passed and adopted in the National Assembly in 2008, amended. 2010 and 2011. The law was voted by the previous speaker, and at that time she liked or did not read it, and then she liked that the judge, who was evaluated in the judicial exam, was granted an automatic working relationship to an indefinite time in calling a judicial associate. She now has a problem with it because it is another congregational majority suggesting that a judicial intern be equaled with a prosecutor's intern. Similar people of the same college finished, passed exams with distinction, why didn't you mind 2008 for judges, and now it bothers you for prosecutors? Have consistency. In this way, we want that what is not even, we don't want to devalue some people what they mean in our society and what they're doing. Why do you punish one and make it possible for others? What argument was made in 2008 to apply a law like this, and why is now an argument that is more infuriating, is it useful or not useful, to comply with the Law on Court Order? Why can judge trainees be subject to some other rules and other rules to prosecutors, and the same people laid down with honor both? Speaking of knowledge, I would like you to look at what all the MPs in this congregation have had the opportunity to look at. This is one of the items addressed to the National Assembly. All the heads of Parliament have looked and had this kind of material. Here it is said – Initiative for the adoption of a law amending the Law on Judges and the Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutory. The High Council of the Judiciary, the State Major Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Association of Public Prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors of Serbia agreed, were not asked by the Prosecutor of the Amendment, please excuse me, this is a sound name in Serbia's judicial system, but the High Council of the Judiciary, the State Greater Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Association of Public Prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors agreed that the National Assembly was instructed by a joint initiative to propose the adoption of a law amending the Law on Judges and the adoption of a law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors. The reason for this initiative, a joint initiative, is to bring the Law on Judges into line with international standards relating to the questions of the termination of the judicial post as a result of the completion of the working century, as well as these measures, so that I do not read to you the whole page, which concerns amendments to the Law on Prosecutors. On the other hand, except for the date, in Belgrade, October 22, 2014, here are the people the legislators say – well, that's what they know, they're analphabets, they're irrelevant – the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In legal knowledge, I would like the legislator to measure himself with these people who have given us one initiative to make these amendments to the law. So when you insult, you insult these people -- the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the president of the State Council of the Prosecutors, the minister of justice, the president of the Serbian Judges' Association and the president of the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors of Serbia. Excuse me, please. When I see amendment promoters, when I see this legal knowledge, that experience without a resignation, even though the Office is still open, when I see those who defend, usefully defend and thus insult not only 199 legislators of this law, but those people who have submitted the initiative, and these five people mean Serbia's judicial system, Serbia's roof judicial system, and then someone comes and says, "Oh, what do they know?" It was good in 2008, then we could vote for such a law on judges, it was good because it was proposed by another congregation majority, and now, when we agree with it, which I don't say is bad, with what's good, we agree that the same thing you've prescribed, brought and adopted in 2008, that it's true for prosecutors, it's useful to be against. So it's useful to be inconsistencies. It is subdued to change the opinion from Novi Sad to Belgrade and again from Belgrade to Novi Sad. Well, at least tell me what it's all about, no tensions, no insults, no nothing. I only said here that we had two pictures of Serbia. A picture of Serbia being washed, which is positive, which is eager to reform itself, to change, a picture of Serbia in which the best, and those who take place with the honour and the committees formed by the ministry, but also before the Commission formed by the Regional Secretariat for Education, and I do not want to be irresponsible so that I can say – you know, what the ministry forms, that Minister Selakovic orders who is to be admitted, and thus Pajkic orders who is to be admitted to the province, I will not be so irresponsible, I need proof of such a thing, but I see that someone who tells lies here, who gives lies and gets a fair offer, has not yet gone to the scribery, and the scribe is open. I don't know how we're going to work with the National Assembly of 249 MPs, Mrs. Mayo? I think it's going to be very burdensome in the next period. Anyone can express themselves freely, anyone in this congregation can express his opinion, anyone can vote. The vote is between two different, and I will repeat once again, two different faces of Serbia. One person, who says -- we want to change, we want to reform, we want to give an opportunity to young people who take about seven exams, and there have been five of them over the past three years, and there won't be 55 of them next year, I'm sure, that's about average because it's hard to pass those exams, we want these young people to have no advantage. You know, when you say they have the advantage, there are ranking advantages and we saw it a little earlier than Mr. Pavicevic to look for another ranking advantage. One advantage based on the tests performed with a mark is one advantage. But familiarity, political activity, handiwork, after all, is a much greater advantage than knowledge. In this way, by means of this bill, we say that knowledge is the only advantage and that these people, and five of them over the past three years, have to get a job indefinitely, just as it is foreseen for judicial interns under the Law that was passed in 2008 and changed until 2011, but in that part has not been changed. Therefore, anyone can choose our society according to their own means. We and this assembly majority will choose this washed, reformed, more beautiful, better Serbia, more professional, younger. Those who do not want such a Serbia, but want Serbia's people, the handiwork, members of political parties, that this is an advantage rather than knowledge, will vote in favour of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12563	Thank you. The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12564	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at first I would like to say that the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government unanimously decided not to accept this amendment, as well as other amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, what I am saying is that I am somewhat surprised by the discussion of some respected fellow Members of the People's Parliaments not to distinguish the basic matter, which is the admission to the working relationship of a judicial assistant, i.e. a prosecutor's assistant or prosecutor's associate and a deputy public prosecutor or prosecutors who are elected by special procedure. Because of the public who's probably monitoring this transmission, I'd like to say that this is about the admission into the working relationship of the prosecutor's associates, and it's not about the reception and setting up of the deputy public prosecutor's office. On the other hand, I am surprised that some MPs, though, have recognized what it is because they have long been following the work, have long been MPs and know that they read and study well every material that enters the congregation procedure. So, we have here on one side for months and years of wanting theoretically to keep the best experts in all areas in the country, to offer them because they are good and professional, which has ended with excellent success, which they have shown in their work and at the time of passing other professional exams, to enable them and to receive them in working relationships, so that they can work and continue to perfect themselves, and on the other hand we want to, for some reason only, to prevent them from doing so. I do not understand why we object that there is a group of 199 MPs, including JS MPs, who have signed the proposal and will vote in favour of this law both in principle and in general, why do we now want to avoid the wording "acceptable", if it already exists in the Law on Court Order? What that means is the term has an advantage in employment. I'm sorry, for many years I've been in various personnel services, having the advantage of hiring is a formula of general character that might mean something, and it doesn't have to mean anything, in the end. That's why I'm saying, and I wouldn't be too long, Mr. Babic said a lot of what I wanted to say. I'm a little surprised that the author of our group of MPs didn't say that. If they have agreed with the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office President of the Supreme Cassation Court and acting President of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, Mr Milojevic, if the President, or the Republic Prosecutor and acting President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Mrs Zagorka Dolovec, has agreed, if the Society of Judges has agreed, if the Association of Public Prosecutors and Assistants has agreed, what we now need to do to be in a dark way and not to accept what everyone has agreed and fully supported it. For the sake of the public, I have to say the following. Since this is the mentioned and famous Anti-Corruption Agency and its solutions, it is said, and I have well remembered that expression that the Agency has issued a warrant or demanded that the minister of justice resign. Excuse me, the Agency can only make a recommendation in its first-degree decision to resign, and the final decision will be made by the Management Board or the Supervisory Board or by the name of the Anti-Corruption Agency. As far as I know, Mr Selakovic's appeal is under procedure. I'm sure of something, which is that this committee will take a good look at the appeal, and given the circumstances, I was at meetings and the State Council of the Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary when they were brought by the Agency, so-called. disputed decisions. Decisions were reached unanimously and the minister in no way affected the decision-making process. How this Anti-Corruption Agency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues works, will tell you my smallness what happened. A month ago, I received a memo from that agency to provide them with evidence that I had built a house in 1991 and 1992, with evidence of the finances I was making. I only answered them in two sentences. First, they need to know the law, which is that as far as I know, they're not from the Anti-Corruption Agency turned into the Commission on the origin of the property. Secondly, to keep financial records under existing regulations for ten years. I've got it, but I won't give it to them, because they don't have the grounds to ask for it. Once again, let me point out that we shouldn't be now and the caddies they're gonna sue and the caddies they're gonna judge. When it comes to the Chamber of Notaries, let's let the Constitutional Court of this state assess whether something is in accordance with existing laws, with existing constitutions, and let's not here for the public to judge ahead. You know who in this country is making the most of the decisions. There are legal options to file an appeal at each first-degree decision and there are competent state second-degree authorities to make the final decision. Once again, I would like to say that the MP group and the JS MPs will not vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12565	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12566	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, two things have happened to me this year in this National Assembly. The first time the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed an amendment to the Law on Higher Education where we allowed students under the old programme to study for another two years. The second is the very proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, where we have given and amended in Article 3 of the words "have an advantage" with "accepted". This was welcomed by all professors not of law school but of all universities. This is a powerful motivational tool for all students. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at least its majority, has been defined for the modernisation of Serbia, and the modernisation of Serbia cannot be done without the results of the work. This is what contributes, this change in the results of work and people with knowledge. Knowledge is the foundation of the future. So this brings me great joy. Secondly, I am very surprised not to say that I am shocked that some MPs express today's mistrust in the state, that they have no confidence in their country and were prime ministers, were also federal interior ministers. I won't doubt my country. Well, if she's wronged me, I don't have any other states. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is past the time when 700 judges were fired for political likeness. It's been a while when some people killed themselves for injustice. It's been a while since a dead judge was elected for a judge just because he was politically like him. Remember the late Ljubisa Djuric, and he was elected judge, and he was dead, only because he belonged to a political resemblance. What Mr. Docent Pavicevic said – given priority, it was done by the members of the KKK which I belonged to, that gave priority only to those who were members of the KKJ. Therefore, we support the legislator and these words are "acceptable". Well done, forward the judiciary, go to those steps that we've defined, which is that the results of the work are above all else. In the end, individuals mentioned Mr. Minister Selakovic. That's an honorable man. He was an excellent student, a good lawyer and an extraordinary minister. That's not just me, that's not what the public of Serbia thinks, that's what they think and spread the organs out of this country. Why is he good? Because he inherited a court that rocked, so to speak, like a building, because it was brought, not to say, to destruction. It's enough what I mentioned, and that's 700 judges who were fired, and among them were the best, and the judges who had never worked in the judiciary had no results, and indeed the judges were fired. In that sense, the amendment promoter has also startled me by statements saying he has no confidence in his country and state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12567	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12568	Thank you. I'll speak briefly and use the time of the parliamentary group. I asked a very simple question because there is a proposing and a proposing, about what happens in a particular case if, on the basis of its jurisdiction, the public prosecutor in the system says he needs three and reports five. That's all I asked, and since it hasn't been heard one more time, I'm really going to say that the good news is that the MPs are passing the laws. And since it was not understood, my remarks about not reading laws and using creativity and imagination as an argument that doesn't matter and that it is embarrassing but beneficial, refer to the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it can only be talked about the point of the agenda. I find it legitimate to have a session and run so as to allow MPs to show everything they know when it comes to trying to defend their law. It's a bit unusual, but I really like it, that so much effort is put into proving that 40 of us from the opposition or 35 or 20, as much as you want us not to support the amendment of colleagues Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic. This is a good private folklore of the assembly debate, but it is not useful because it is understood that the ruling majority will not accept the amendment and forget that each of us has the right to submit an amendment and has the right to use all his powers under the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly. It is embarrassing and quite useless at any time to allow yourself as a fellow MP, ad persona, and ad-hominim disqualify another fellow MP. It's part of something that can only be called a culture of politics. By the way, he's always talking about the words of mockery, the insult of ad-hominem saying for anyone, he never says anything about who those words refer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12569	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. You have two minutes and 45 seconds, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12570	Thank you. Three expressions were dominant in an attempt to defend undefense, mirror, handiwork and the Corruption Agency. Mrs. Komic explained very precisely all the situations that would be problematic if the law was adopted as proposed, but obviously this does not come to the ears and minds of people who should plead it and it is completely legitimate, you also have the right to your delusions. The fact that only five trainees were evaluated last year by that highest estimate is a reason more for the amendment, because if there are only five, five or five, there will be no problem with them being employed even if there is a solution that we have now. The attacks on the Agency for Corruption, measuring the squareness of the building they are in, after a few years since they entered there, and that this is an obstacle to their recommendation, and the final solution to resolve the current minister of justice for abuse of office, I think it is completely pointless and finally, hand-loving and mirror. I don't know what he had to kiss a fellow MP who talked about handiwork to get where he is and I don't want to get into those dark things, but it's certainly his offer to give me his mirrors inspired by him thinking his mirror is wrong, not to show a real picture of him. I'm sure his mirror is right and that what he sees in the mirror that he is. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, I don't expect you to vote for the amendment, and I'd be terribly surprised if that happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12571	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12572	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have said in the opening statement as authorized in front of my MP group that what this law brings is indeed a special quality, and this is precisely this possibility that people who show extraordinary quality in the exam and master, not only with knowledge but also with skills, and I know that passing a judicial exam is long and serious, and that there can really be seen all the quality that one trainee has, that it is a shift and that it is a really positive thing. I think that's where we went a little bit broadly and that we should refuse such an amendment that comes from an opposition that should, of course, be respected. I even wanted to apply the amendment to take the average rating and the length of study from basic studies, but some colleagues from my parliamentary group, but other colleagues also convinced me that this traineeship is indeed the place where all the knowledge that a man acquires during the course of the study is shown and that practically in that place these people are perfecting and showing their capacities. With that, I think this is really a bright spot and perhaps the most important part of this law that we adopt and that we should certainly support something like this and say, "I don't accept this amendment coming from an opposition whose honesty I don't doubt they have sincere desires to improve, but I don't think they're right here." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12573	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12574	Thank you, dear President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very actively listening to all the debates in the High House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Based on today's debate on this amendment, I could come to two very important conclusions. First, is there anything more honest, more honest, more honest, but that the best students, the team before, this time the ones who passed the judicial exam with distinction and got a job? Not only do they have priority, because priority can sometimes mean a lot of manipulation. Therefore, fellow MPs, I hope that we will all refuse this amendment, if we think well of our children, our students, our youth. We've heard a lot of arguments and I don't want to repeat myself. Secondly, what I'm saying is, the proposings of this amendment that we see that, here, they're not interested in listening to this debate, and all of their amendments are the type of "get deleted", I'm convinced that such methods of action that don't lead to constructive resolutions and promotions of members of this law will only lead to the eradication of political action exactly theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12575	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12576	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention of reporting for an amendment that wasn't. This is the product of two geniuses who have been harassing this Assembly for a month and a half, giving amendments consisting of being "expunged", and then giving arguments that are daily-political where certain ministers are attacked, where they have and target certain people, where they are trying to create a negative atmosphere and target the current current current current justice minister, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. I'm very uncomfortable that these same amendments are not in this room right now, and I'm even more uncomfortable that they're not in the O.R. when they're voting on their amendments. I voted against last time and I voted against it, and if the amendments were not in the O.R., they did not even vote for their amendments. We, by proposing this law, have proposed nothing revolutionary. We just wanted the practice to be uniform, that the judicial interns be equal to the prosecutor's interns, that is, that the prosecutor's interns are equal to the judge's interns in that pass. If they show knowledge and interest and pass a judicial exam with a distinction, which means that from all seven cases two are written, the rest are taken orally, they can be accepted, or there is an obligation to be accepted as professional associates, i.e. prosecutor's associates, just as the Law on the Regulation of Courts provides, and I will remind the public that this law was passed in 2008 and that the people who attacked this bill today were actually attacking themselves from 2008. They were mostly the same people, using arguments that undermined completely what they voted for in 2008. It serves them honor, and we really only wanted to imitate practice and to give the best, most likely, and usually it was the best students who passed the judicial exam with a medal, and we heard from the head of our parliamentary group that there were five in the last three years, and what more naturally you would be, what would be more normal than to force these people to get the advantage, that they would be accepted necessarily, and that if there were other places, someone else who was weaker and weaker rank than them would be. So, this is another one of those amendments that I'm going to vote against, and I'm sure the promoters will not be in the O.R. on that day. He may be in the office resigning as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12577	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12578	Thank you, President. The SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will not support this amendment for reasons that are completely logical. First, when the Proposer, and the Proposer here 199 MPs of the National Assembly, presented a motive why this Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Prosecutors and puts it on the agenda, was indisputably the fact that in this way a consensus is created with the existing law, which is the Law on the Regulation of Courts, where, in Article 66, it is indeed unequivocally clear that the judicial interns who pass the judicial exam as a means of estimating their work, and the way in which their work is evaluated means that this quality means the greatest professional reference, have the benefit to be admitted to a working relationship indefinitely. On the other hand, it also implies the obligation of both the President of the Court and the Chief Prosecutor, or the hierarchy of other prosecutors, to enable in the programme of human resources solutions, and in particular the systematicisation of jobs of such a workplace where the person who passed the exam will automatically begin to work with the honour. However, something that citizens need to know should be pointed out here. The quality is an evaluation of someone's work, but it surprises at least here the government and certainly you, the MPs, the mutilation that is now being expressed by the suitors, the indifference of those who have failed to pass the rules on the evaluation of the work of judges, the evaluation of the work of prosecutors over 20 years. Now such ones appear as concubines as to why someone allegedly discriminates, or allegedly is privileged. The reminders for, in 1993, when the only regulation on the assessment of the work of judges was adopted, until this government, both in the previous assembly and in this assembly, failed to set measurable criteria for the assessment of the work of both judges and prosecutors, we did not know on the basis of which judges and prosecutors were selected. In the debate in principle, I pointed out that it was absurd for a judge to choose one who was faster, to be up-to-date, to solve 100 cases of these 100 cases 95 had been abolished and thus showed his intricacies and unquality. Indeed, right now in the SPS parliamentary group, we believe that this is also one way of estimating the work of young trainees, particularly prosecutors and judicial trainees, in a way that implies a realistic vision of evaluation, i.e. an objective assessment of their value, and that, before being evaluated by the best estimate, it is logical that an automatic working relationship be established for those people who deserve such a thing. That is why we will not accept this amendment. It is true that on the Committee on Justice we have also discussed other modes, that the position of the distinguished colleague Batic is also supported, and in this direction it is also necessary to consider the application of the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System when it comes to this legal situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12579	Thank you. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The representatives of the promoters and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local administration have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12580	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I will try to stick to the essence of this amendment, which, hand to heart, does not allow for any political debates, but only one expert debate can be held. My distinguished colleague, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic, on the Committee on Justice, on which I explained this amendment today and last session, I tried to point out what its essence is, but the good work and my distinguished colleague, Comic, presented a part that represents the essence of what this amendment wants to achieve. In fact, there is no intention of being retrograde here, I do not know, that predicting what is not acceptable, but only this amendment has been submitted to a good extent, and that is to ensure that what is proposed by amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law is provided for by its Article 3. In fact, if there is a solution like this, it is unscheduled, and I am sure that it will, in practice, create the possibility of a number of abuses. The fact is that the Law on Judges and the Law on the Order of Judges is mixed. These are two laws that govern completely two different substances as regards Article 3 of this bill, which I supported because the intention is good, but it is not well legalized and that is what will cause problems, and nomotechnics is extremely important. At least when the amendments are written, it must be borne in mind that an identical solution exists to Article 66, and that is to say, point 2. The law on the order of judges, but on the other hand, it can't be explained for any more reason and I'll try to explain it. Since I'm running out of time for the amendment, I'm going to use the time of my authorised promoter. You can't take someone for a simple reason. The amendment I have made is precisely to specify the provision of this Article 3. Namely, by the proposed formulation, I have supported this bill, but here I note that the proposed formulation, if it remains in this form in which it is, without any amendments, I allow the amendment to be submitted by the Committee of Justice and I have no problem, or any other MPs to propose such an amendment, so that the Committee of Justice may submit such an amendment, but this leaves doubt in the intention of all of us who have signed this bill, whether each prosecutor, by the way, recognises the category of prosecutor's associates, and that must be said, who passed the judicial exam, with a decision to be adopted in a working relationship and when the number is filled. So, whether the public prosecutor's office has a full number of jobs or a full number of jobs. This number and those acts on the number of posts completed are explicitly provided for in Article 117(2). The public prosecutor's law, and then only that intern can be accepted, there's not one feature, there's ten features, but only if there's a vacant job. So, without such an amendment, it doesn't have to be my amendment, but I said, if it were to be accepted at all, let the Justice Committee submit an amendment, it would be in a position for any trainee who passes the judicial exam to be admitted into a working relationship and in case there are no job openings in the prosecution. That way we'd be in a position to create extra employees. That's one thing. The number of staff in the prosecution could also increase without any control, and imagine that, by the minister responsible for the Justice Committees, who was otherwise first called, while legally obliged to give consent to the number of staff the prosecutor proposes for the public prosecutor. At the same time, it could happen that the real state of staff, I am talking about a specific category, because I am talking about prosecutorial interns or associates, as the law recognises them, would not be in line with the legal status approved by the minister, and that means that any future trainee, in accordance with this solution, would have to be admitted to work and in case of no job openings, and that would, on the other hand, cause further problems. These additional problems are identified by people who come from the judiciary and who apply this. These problems are being looked at in the next. First, the problems with the schedule of the so-received prosecutor, since they can only be deployed in accordance with the act of the same member I have already mentioned, which is Article 117 paragraph 2 of the Law. If the trainee were to receive a working relationship, although the number of seats of the act referred to in the said article was filled, then there would be an open question where and on the basis of which act to deploy it. Watch out for the paradox. If that were the case, and if there were no job openings, it would mean that the prosecutor they're deploying in this case as a so-called surplus, because that is, if there is no job available and that is the opposite of an act governed by Article 117(2) of this law, then he would, by his own decision, be the reception of such a prosecutor, who passed the judicial exam for distinction and, of course, it is for any praise, but the public prosecutor who would do such a thing, gentlemen, would enter the area of contradiction. I have explicitly stated this by amendment and the amendment is primarily well-intentioned. I do not dispute, I say, I am a signator and I support this, because the fact that there is a harmonisation of the Law on Regulating Courts that was brought in, I don't mention years, and I don't do things that are beyond the profession, at least when we are discussing in particular and I believe that this amendment should be accepted primarily in order to bring about a one-bar and one-clear interpretation of those who apply those laws, but also that it is finally clear to the citizens what we want to do with these amendments and additions. This amendment has been submitted for the purpose, as I have already mentioned, of a one-brave, clear interpretation, of the provision of a working relationship with the calling of the prosecutor's intern, only if such a post is incomplete and within the meaning of Article 117(2). Of course, in this place, in addition to the above-mentioned provisions of the law, I must point to something else. Thank you for your intervention. I think it's very important that this topic be discussed until the end, especially by a proposed member. Furthermore, I must point out that when we talk about something like this, the intention is excellent, the motivational element is present. You should take the best, I don't mind. If we had the best time, we'd be great. But here, when it is said that they must be employed, there is always potential for this automation, one fact is ignored, which is that this Assembly passed the Law on the Budgetary System, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has passed a regulation on the restriction of employment. The first law excludes the possibility of employment indefinitely, and the government's regulation restricts employment indefinitely. My question is, which I probably won't get an answer for, and what are you gonna do about it? If we're going to break these laws, or we're going to derivate each other or we're going to say, never mind, it can be employed even though it's a full number of jobs. I think there are arguments and these are very decadent, very specific, very clearly stated in the explanation of the amendments that I have submitted and regardless of the position, I agree and I am voted upon in this on the Committee on Justice, whose member I am. I think that this amendment should be considered, because this is a one-moving and a clearer application, first of all, to apply us who come from the judiciary and who know what kind of problems ahead of this one provision, unless it's changed, can cause and may cause them. I am sorry that our legal system is not regulated as, say, the legal system of Switzerland, so let's say there is an evaluation clause in every law, so that this evaluation clause is prescribed and limited the time of a certain law, that the effects of the law are monitored during that time, so that if such effects are absent or such effects are shown to be insufficient, inadequate, that the proposer is automatically obliged to submit a new bill immediately, even if the proposings were us as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12581	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12582	Thank you. I just want to support the acceptance of the amendment submitted by counterpart Olga Batic for at least two reasons. The first is because this amendment is better, more precise and clearer than the amendments that it also supports, because it points to the problem in the bill that is before us, and the second is that I completely unequivocally show that I have never been, it is not and it will not matter who signs the amendment, but what the amendment says. A national MP who has explained much better than I, because of her expertise, the reasons why this amendment is important to accept belongs to the ruling majority, as well as to all other MPs. I'm an opposition, but the amendment is good. Do you want more detail done, do you want a delay for the Committee to submit an amendment? And with that, I'm in advance of consent. It is important to me that on this case, if we want to remember it, we learn that it is much more important to read the proposals and the laws and amendments and see what is good, meaningful and well written in some amendment, than to just spend ourselves on a legitimate but useless folklore, exchange of folklore compositions on things that are not the subject of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12583	Thank you. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12584	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we are all in favour of preventing brain drains, as it is said, I would say to the smart, young, from the Republic of Serbia, and I see that the proposings are not currently thinking about it. You're talking about competition in the D.A.'s employment and the judges. The competition's in college. If the student is done with 10, 10.00, the state must hire him in any way for the simple reason that the student does not go abroad to move forward. So we're all up for it, and now we're proposing something that can't be accepted in any way. This doesn't apply to Miss Batic. I accept that there are students who end up with a ten and those who end up with ten plus, but I'm different from knowledge and brains. Knowledge is something else, and mind is something else. When knowledge and mind come together, then this is what we're saying, that this man needs to be hired in some way. Those who suggest, I have the impression they have knowledge, and they don't have the other one. It's not about my colleague Batic, it's about those predecessors who gave Amendment 2. If we wanted to stand up, I'd say that I'm an amendment and an addition to this law, in all colleges, wherever the student ends up with a dozen, that the state is obliged to hire him, that those smart people from Serbia don't go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12585	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, who proposes the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12586	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, obviously I have a few clarifications to make. No one here argues that the most competent, the most professional and the best among us should get jobs. I suppose anyone who otherwise would have acted beyond any logic and completely contrary to common sense. I've already said I've supported both of the bill's proposals, the amendment and additions to the Law on Judges and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors. What appears to be a potential danger in practice is ignored here. No one here argues that there is a motivational element present, that whoever finishes his internship, after two years of taking a judicial exam, now has a motive more to be accepted indefinitely by trying to pass the exam with a distinction. It's something indisputable and it stands in such a bill. I'm talking about what can happen in practice, and what can happen in practice is next. We have, and we don't slow it down either, and it's probably a very small number of people, actually an intern who takes a judicial exam with a medal. I don't think it's a very large number or people who put the court in full, but it's a different story. So, as far as the motivational element is concerned, he's here, I'm talking about the practical part. Since you're going to be three or five, it doesn't matter, and let's not bid the numbers here, let's make it a hundred interns, a hundred people who passed the judicial exam with distinction. I am speaking this Assembly has passed the Law on the Budgetary System, restricting employment, especially indefinitely and we have a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia restricting employment indefinitely. The third thing, there's an act, and I've already mentioned Article 117(2) on the full number of jobs. The practical question – what will you do and how the public prosecutor, who gets three, two, five, will not matter to the trainees, who passed the judicial exam with distinction, to hire them. He says -- sorry, but the number of jobs is full, I can't hire them, I can't get past myself, if I hire them, I do something I shouldn't do, I enter the area of illegality. What if all the D.A.'s offices are filled? What if the question of a deployment from one prosecution to another prosecutor's office is raised and the number of seats filled? So it's the public prosecutor again who has to do something he shouldn't do. So, the amendment has been submitted in good faith, more than constructive, and it prevents everything that could happen in practice, which, by our legal system, and which, by the prosecutor's office, would not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12587	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12588	We support this amendment. We believe that colleague Batic pointed to what we have been saying all along, what is the problem, according to us, in this change. So, this is one thing to say, really, in the right sense, is that there is a problem that can arise if the amendments to the law are applied without this amendment. In practice, in everyday legal life, the functioning of the prosecution will simply be impossible to implement without breaking any regulations. Or the D.A. and the D.A. are going to change the system to get somebody into a working relationship. permanently, or he won't be able to comply with this law because there's no place for systematicization. On the side of all that we have resented so far, as far as de facto, taking over the role of employment services by the Commission for judicial exams, it is already very problematic, but this in particular in a technical sense, in an operational sense, which will happen daily in our prosecutions, regardless of what I agree is that there are no large number of people who pass by with distinction. That's true, but in the prosecution itself, this thing, otherwise they're burdened with the inability of an adequate and full application of a prosecutor's investigation, you might think now they'll have to change the systemization and find places, say, in Belgrade, I don't know how many there are, but I'm sure there aren't enough. Also, I'm sure the systems and work schedules have been adapted to some past tense. What do we do now? So, I think it's absolutely for the purpose and it's necessary for this amendment to be applied and accepted, the colleague also said as a proposal from the Committee. So it's done to make things more specific. We believe that such a provision, without additional precision that enables the operation in practice, will essentially not produce a result. We're gonna have a lot of problems. It's kind of our appeal to accept this amendment, because we don't really see anything wrong with what's said. This amendment is in the service of common sense. There's absolutely no policy in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12589	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12590	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's common sense to have harmonised legislation, that there is no degradation of prosecutorial interns in relation to court trainees. Unless, and I just spoke and quoted this article 66. The law on court schedules, the same solution applies to court interns, which is where we don't put the problem of whether there's a vacant place, if there's no vacant place. That's not the kind of question you ask. Why would he? If the prosecution interns have been downgraded all these years, why go on? What's a vacant job mean? Will there be a job vacancy? Are we going to leave it that way that again familiarity, political belongings, godfather's relations, kinships, some other relationships are more of a priority? Where are the job openings in Serbia? I'd love to, dream about that country where I'm going to live, Serbia where jobs will be vacant. When you say it legally, when you say it – that you passed, you got a great college, in time, great grades, excellent average, you passed seven exams, it's all good, but it's a vacant job. It is, as is the basis of the Law on Planning and Construction, so when you walk on 26 counters to get permission, and then on the 27th they tell you FTJP, as it was – you lack another paper. That's what this is. It's great that you guys passed with the medal, it's great, but we'll see you at the next vacant post. There's no such thing. Loud and clear. It's not about all the interns. It's about people who have a medal, and those people in Serbia have been five in the past three years. Can we act so irresponsiblely as a state and tell the best – we don't need you or wait for the job. We can't. We can't vote for any solution in 2008. The court schedule law was passed by another congregation majority. In 2008, she changed until 2011 and predicted this for the judicial trainees. What's with all the controversy for the D.A.'s interns? For what? Why are those other categories, second rank? Why can these be automatic, and I read you article 66, and the DA's interns are waiting for a job, and it's five people in three years? So much we can, so much we have to, send a clear message to young people that we don't want party membership, acquaintance, godfathership to be a priority, priority knowledge. Let's have one thread once. If we voted in favour of this law in 2008, with such a Article 66, why can't we now vote for such a solution? Is five people with an excellent problem in three years? No, he can't. What do we point them to? If it does not say in the law – yes, you will automatically receive a job, whether it is before a committee formed by a minister or before a commission formed by the Regional Secretariat. I don't have that dilemma. I don't want to believe that the commissions that have seven people will step on their professional careers, diplomas, professors, lawyers, prosecutors, judges, and all of them collectively so that they will be, in fact, a commission to get into a working relationship. I don't believe that. I believe it's people of integrity, that it's people who question knowledge, not beautiful eyes. In this way only explicitly strict and clearly defined. This country needs the best, I wish there were more. No one else who doesn't get a medal doesn't have to mean they won't get a job tomorrow, but those who don't have a medal, they'll have to wait for that very vacant job. Those with a medal, the best, must receive a reward from this country for years of denial. And that best reward and best attitude of the state is a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12591	Thank you, Mr. Granny. People's MP Marko Djurisic came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12592	Thank you, Your Honor. We think this amendment is good. I agree with the arguments that the adoption of these amendments in the draft Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office and agreeing with the Law on Judges, in this part, rules applicable to judicial trainees are good, but that does not mean that we cannot take another step further and avoid the possibility that this law, if we adopt it as proposed, without amendments by fellow Members Batic, will be contrary to some other laws. I think that in this sense, this amendment is well-intentioned and helps the state to address possible misunderstandings about what happens if there is no job, and the state has, among other things, declared the principle of savings. We're talking here, the only thing I can't figure out from my colleague Babic is that he's talking about five people, so sometimes he says five people in the last year, and sometimes he says five people in the last three years. - Zoran Babic, from the scene. Five in three years. Well, let's know exactly what number of people it is. It's a small number of people, and it's just amazing to me that it doesn't empty jobs so much that these five people can be admitted and there can be a situation where someone can pass and meet all of these conditions that are now envisioned by an amended law and there's no place available. It's hard for me to imagine this situation, at this point, if it's five people for three years. What could be the problem? And it should be followed, if this law changes, what happens. So that maybe 55 people don't show up and then create a problem, that then the state doesn't have the opportunity, or the free seats, or the budget funds to receive all these people, and then what are we going to do? And in that sense, I think this amendment is good, well-intentioned, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12593	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12594	It's not a dispute at all. It seems to me that this amendment does not in any way question the need for someone of distinction to be in the prosecutor's office, admitted to the prosecutor's office. It seems to me that this amendment further allows this solution to be in accordance with the law and to avoid the need or alter the systemisation or the prosecution to break the law. So no one here is trying to say that those who are indeed the best and who have passed with the highest possible assessment of the judicial exam should perform those duties. So please don't change the thesis here. A colleague tries to facilitate and comply with legal regulations. Nothing else. That's how I understand it. Believe me, here's my colleague Batic, I think the right thing through this amendment has shaped, shown, made it possible for the Assembly to avoid future problems. And I'm surprised, because most of the time in the futur is talking. So if you are already talking in future then listen to the voice of counterpart Batic, which points to an obstacle and legal danger in that same future. So, nothing else, there's no policy there, simply or you're going to have to break the law in order for a man to get into a permanent working relationship, that's option A, or option B, you have to change the systemization. Which means the law can't apply until it's done. Short and clear. What's wrong with that? And why is it necessary now to seek guilt I don't know which authorities from the past? What does that have to do with this subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12595	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. No more time. No more time. No more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12596	Okay, thank you, that's your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12597	The People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12598	I want to contribute to the best solution here, and I think what I said in the principle debate should be a guideline. This amendment, no matter how truly well-intentioned it was, by my colleague Batic, and how much, in an attempt to conform with certain legal solutions, could produce one good and quality legal solution, or norm, I think we still have to take care of something else. And that's not to get into a situation where we hurt the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees a ban on discrimination. Here we would be in a situation where the discrimination against those that we have defined in 2008 as the ones who have passed the judicial exam with respect to the fact that they have the right to establish a working relationship for indefinite time in courts. In this situation, we would be in a discriminatory position for those who would now be without such an opportunity under the provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Law. And the Constitution and the law tears all equal. In the principle debate, I said something without the intention of suggesting that this proposal would be the best quality. I'm sorry that some who are not lawyers from inexperience and lack of knowledge of professions sometimes make views that are not in the spirit of law, but what I think, it seems to me that it might be a solution to start every year to make human plans. The Presidents of the Courts shall, at the same time, adopt rules on the systematization of jobs. We in power and the RS government have the intensities not to have five laid down, to be 55, to be 155, and to have all of them have extraordinary references, to lay down with a mark. But the bottom line is what's about reality. The reality is that we have the number now as much as we have, and that according to that number, we're building a personnel plan at the very beginning. Then we won't come into conflict. We, with the provisions of the Law on the Budgetary System, will imitate this law, or we will bring it into line with the provisions of the Law on Judges, I apologize, with the Law on Court Order, and thus put young people, young lawyers who need help, whose ambition should be valorised and satisfied. And that's exactly how it's proposed in the text itself. Therefore, with respect to the proposal by counterpart Batic, however, the SPS and the parliamentary group will not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12599	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12600	For the sake of the amendment promoter, no one doubts, and I would hate to see that sort of thing sent to the SNS, because they really don't stand. I apologize to Mr. Djurisic if I've told you about the number of people, but definitely five people have passed with honor over the past three years. Not for a year, but for the past three years. Yes, Mr. Chairman, the Serbian Progressive Party and this assembly majority are working to ensure that our future is European, reformed, stable, decent, but our presentation is such that 45,000 people get a job in the real sector and are employed and the unemployment rate is reduced to 20.3%. Yes, the perfection is the time when in Serbia 400,000 people are out of work, during only one government of the former regime, and God forbid, some political parties are slowly but surely in a plus-squamp. So much for times and being in them. I would agree with Mr. Nedja Jovanovic's words. I think he has forsaken any doubt in accordance with the laws and compliance of this bill with the Constitution. What I'd like to do is, I think that the vacant post provided for in this amendment, I'm not sure if the people who passed the judicial exam with distinction will welcome it? Will someone come to this vacant job now and in the future because of other priorities more important than knowledge and thus simply, by adopting such an amendment, which I have no doubt has a good intention, is just a pat on the shoulders of those people, but that tap on the shoulder that it says - go on, because the empty job will not be and will be another priority? In this way, priorities are ranked, not having such a flat-rate advantage, but that the only and true advantage of knowledge, characterized and evaluated in the exam, is in front of the seven-member commission, for seven items and a feature which, I'm sure the amendment promoter knows much better than I do, is how hard it is to get, and it confirms a number of five people in three years. These people, the ones with the quality, the best, are needed by this society as a priority, not to wait for a job. That's the difference between seeing and making amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12601	Thank you, Mr. Babic. People's MP Olgica Babic, as the amendment's promoter, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12602	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I must first say that I have submitted this amendment exclusively and only as someone who comes from practice, as someone who comes from the judiciary and I am sorry that not most of them here have seen it. I am sorry to be brought in some way into the suspicion and well-meaning of this amendment. The amendment is usually submitted for reasons to make a legal provision or more legal provisions precise, complete, make it better, make it effective. Someone who has no contact with practice, with practical work, and here has us lawyers, has ex-judgments, I think they know it's easy to pass the law, change the legal provision, but you have that "ex-nunk" and "ex-tunk" application of the law in practice. I'm talking about the practical part and the objective of the amendment, and I see that the accent here is being put on what is said to be a vacant job. No, I don't. You see, that's not the point, because she didn't want to get the real point out of this amendment. When we talk about this empty place, it's not a vacant job, then we have to have, I'm speaking from the point of view of the profession, and I said that this amendment can't be brought into any political context at all, so I'm talking about someone who's a lawyer who knows what's going on in practice. First, there is no job, no public prosecutor's office recognizes it. But the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is a very explicit regulation of the acts laid down in Article 117(2). The Public Prosecutor's Law speaks of unfulfilled places, and that's what a public prosecutor in practice does when he completes the number of places. I was more than clear in the debate in principle. I signed these bill proposals, and I think that's where every story ends, as far as my support is concerned. I'm speaking from the point of view of the profession. In 2008, I don't know I wasn't an MP, so I couldn't even vote on the Law on Regulating Courts and Provisions, it seems to me, in 66th and that attitude 2, which provides for the same identical solution, probably wouldn't vote for it then. The law, as well as this Law on the Prosecutor's Office, has a provision that reads, and is provided for in Chapter 5 of the same Law on the Regulation of Courts, to determine the composition and number of judicial staff, which in Article 57, in its position 2, provides that the number of judicial staff, and when the court staff is told, is meant by the judicial interns, the judicial assistants, the civil servants, the deputies, the associates, etc., determines the President of the Court by means of an act on the internal arrangement and, watch out, the systematicisation of the posts in the court, and in accordance with the Staff Plan. Be careful now, in accordance with the Sakadra plan. And, look, miracles. The same member, in his third position, provides for something additional, which is that the criterion, therefore, for determining the number of court staff is determined by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. I am sorry that this amendment is not really interpreted in the way that it should have been done, because it is carried out and it is permanently concluded wrong and it is said that I, in fact, here with this amendment, want to prevent the best among us from being immediately accepted indefinitely. That's total nonsense. Whoever carefully reads the explanation of the amendment, and apparently many are not, will see that the essence is different. You now have a member of the 3rd such proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Prosecutors, where you actually derrogate a member of 123th to 117th of the same law. So two members of the same law are at odds. I'm just saying as someone who comes from practice let's not do that. We'll create problems in practice. Of course, I was the position here that the Law on Judges should not only be maintained on these amendments, but also that the provision concerning judicial trainees, there is the essence, of course, thanks to Mr. Neđa Jovanovic for reminding me, there is the essence, there is also the law to change, so that we measure that solution that we are criticising from 2008, with a bad solution, so now this solution is actually an epochal solution that is not worth anything. I don't think that's good. So there's something that's theory, there's something that's practice. This is done exclusively out of practice because we know, regardless of whether it's a judiciary, whether it's a prosecutor's office, sometimes they're judges, sometimes they're handcuffed to some prosecutor because of something called systematization, what's called a number of filled jobs, and so far you've had situations that the prosecutors are very willing to accept interns who have finished the judicial exam, achieved excellent results, laid it whole or decorated it, but they say – I'm sorry, we don't have a place to go, we don't have a free number of jobs. There's something called systematization, and look at miracles, and that systematization is also foreseen by the Law on Court Order and the Law on Public Prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12603	Thank you, Miss Batic. The 3rd amendment was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Branka Karavidic. The representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12604	Thank you, Your Honor. We've heard a lot about what the legislators of these amendments intend to do, which is to allow those of the best, best prosecutoral interns who pass the grade exam, and these were five in the last three years, to be admitted to work by automation. What we wanted to introduce as another condition that needs to be met is that these prosecutorial interns did their whole internship in the prosecution. Now I don't have any data, and we don't have a minister in this debate who might be able to give us information on these five cases of how many prosecutorial interns who, if they were at all, got that grade -- passed with a medal, came from the ranks of prosecutors, how many there are. We believe that if it is the wish of a young student who has graduated from law school and is willing to work in the prosecution, he will come to work as a prosecutor's intern, he will work there for a minimum of two years, and then he will go to a judicial exam afterwards and if he passes this exam with honor he will be accepted as a prosecutor associate. We think it's those people who deserve special treatment, the ability to keep working in the D.A.'s office, and probably there to make their entire professional career come true. You know that a traineeship before a judicial exam can be carried out both in law enforcement and in court, but also in the work of state authorities, so different account is taken of the time, or even in the economy, in businesses, and another year is foreseen in that case. So, I'm sure, and I know that there are people who are in law school who want to be judges someday, or that they're just prosecutors, or that they're working in law enforcement, or that they have some kind of clear idea, and we think that this one special exception should refer to those who, let me say, have this clear idea, motive and desire to spend their whole lives in the prosecution, and then end up in the D.A.'s office as interns, pass this exam with the best grade, and then, after automation, continue to work in the prosecutor's office and end their career. I expect you to accept this amendment, and I expect that we will speak very quickly here, as a few colleagues wanted to talk about perfection, I would rather talk about future, and if we are talking about a presentation, we might be able to talk about that the World Bank today dropped 14 places to Serbia on its world-class business list, because it estimated that in 2013/2014. Serbia has not implemented reforms in order to emulate and improve its country's business system. Today, Serbia, I think, is 94th in the world-level list. The only country in the region that is worse than us is, unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that's a good introduction in 2015, a year when we need new investments, new jobs, when we need better business conditions, so foreign investors come. This is one bad news, and I hope the government has an answer to that soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12605	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The People's Parliament of Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12606	Thank you, Chairman. I think the proposed amendment should be rejected and exceeded in the proposed legislative solution. In fact, when we talk about the prosecutor's intern, it's logical that he was conducting an internship at the D.A.'s office, unlike the lawyer's intern who did the internship at the law firm. To insist that someone can be admitted to a permanent working relationship only if the entire traineeship has been conducted in the prosecution by me is unnecessary, because such a prosecutor's office can remain denied for quality staff. After all, the question arises – what if one of the candidates spent only one month doing practice in a court or law firm, and the remaining 35 months being an intern in the prosecution? Should he, too, pass a judicial exam with distinction, not be admitted to permanent employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12607	Thank you. The word has a national MP Biljana Savovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12608	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment concerns Article 3 and Article 3. The draft law shall be brought into line with the Law on Public Prosecution with the Law on Registration of Courts, all in order to equalise the position of prosecutors and judicial interns who passed the judicial exam with the highest assessment, i.e. with a distinction. Whether working experience for a period of three years has been obtained in court or in the prosecution is irrelevant. The difference is in nuances, because they both need to know and govern the entire legislation and the legal system of this country, so this filtering is too high. That is why I will not support this amendment, as I propose to the other SNS deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12609	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Legalization of Objects You have received amendments submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Vesna Martinović, Balša Bozovic and Dr Blaže Bradić, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, a proposing representative, Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12610	Thank you. The proposed amendment wanted us to practically point out that when proposing amendments to the Law on Legalisation did not take care of other problems concerning the legalisation process itself, it did not make the procedure easier, shorter and faster and missed the opportunity to solve the key problems that cause citizens to be unable to complete the legalisation documentation within a year. Therefore, an opportunity has been missed to bring in unsustainable and unreliable records and immovableities and inefficient services for the catastrophe of immovableity for practical purposes. They missed the opportunity to solve those problems that the designers have when designing out-of-state projects as legalization conditions. They missed the opportunity to settle the same charges for the construction land and charge problems. We don't think it's just a matter of time. Breaking the deadlines in this case is only a consequence, and the causes are all that I've counted. These causes are not solved by the proposed changes. As a result, we think that only a mere extension of the deadline is unnecessary, because neither will legalisation be completed in the next six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12611	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. People's message Nadica Nikolic Tanasijević came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12612	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am reporting for an amendment to Article 1 which was submitted by opposition colleagues. First of all, my advice to respected colleagues is to bring in a little creativity when writing amendments, because amendments that contain only two words that say: "wipes" become too monotons. Secondly, this amendment, of course, should not be accepted. In his explanation, the amendment's promoter stated that the Law on Legalisation was adopted in 2013 and that there was plenty of time to collect the necessary documentation. However, in practice it is not so and I will show it on the case of my municipality. The Department of Construction and Urban Affairs of the Municipality of Grocka, which was submitted in 2003-2014 on 20.723 requires, with a request for legalisation, to be accompanied by a particular documentation, which is a geodetic video, then, a project of an object carried out in three copies, evidence of the right to use property, i.e. a lease on building land, i.e. proof of property rights on the facility. As a fourth, there is also a demand for proof of the regulation of the relationship with respect to the payment of compensation for the construction land and as the fifth proof of the payment of an administrative fee of 280 dinars. At first glance, it doesn't seem so complicated and problematic. However, the citizens of my municipality face a series of problems stemming from the fact that no detailed legalisation plan has been introduced for the Municipality of Grock and that it is actually the most difficult to obtain ownership over the parcels. So the biggest problem we're facing is unresolved property-legal relations, because in most cases, the owner of the facility is not and the owner of the plot on which the facility is located. In the southern part of the municipality to which the towns of Grocka, Umčari and Vrčina belong, absolutely no building permit can be issued, because these places do not have planned documentation in 70% of cases and that is another major problem. When all documents are collected, that is to say, to prepare these necessary documentation, we come up with another major problem, which is the very price of legalisation. Ninety-nine percent of the population had their own resources arranged for construction land by building roads, introducing water, electricity and sewerage, because the former government had no hearing of their basic and human needs. How big a problem in the Municipality of Grocka is the fact itself, the number already mentioned from 20.723 submitted for the period from 2003 to 2014, and to date only 2,160 requirements have been resolved, meaning approximately 10%. As it can be concluded, the problems are large and numerous and therefore it is necessary to extend the time limit for submitting the necessary documentation. For this reason, I call on all my colleagues not to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12613	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12614	Thank you. As a representative of the legislator of this law, more precisely these amendments, I say that we cannot accept this amendment, because the promoter, more precisely, the amendments proposed did not offer any solution, but suggested that this Article 1 be deleted. By erasing this Article 1 this law and amendments and our whole story of helping citizens simply wouldn't make any sense. On the day we had the principle debate I heard at one point, and I think I heard well from the head of the DS parliamentary group that this law is, more specifically, that these changes are good and will support them, if I'm wrong, correct me. What my previous DS colleague said about missed opportunities, I wouldn't comment on how many missed opportunities there were in the last 12, 15 years. How many opportunities have been missed to legalize and how many opportunities have been missed to give a million and 300 illegal objects and get building permits. So I just think that we should help these people, and I think you should think about it one more time, to help me, to explain to me that I heard correctly that last time you said that you would support this law, that you would take responsibility for those people you didn't help back then, that you would do it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12615	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12616	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable because it virtually erases the entire amendment and supplement of the Law on Legalisation, which I think is contrary to the interests of the Serbian citizens. Namely, I'll remind you of what the Law on Legalization of Objects has predicted so far. Article 23 — if, within a period which may be longer than one year, the applicant does not provide all the necessary documentation from the date of entry into force of this law, the competent authority will reject the request. This law came into force on 1 November 2013, so that all the requirements of the citizens who applied for legalisation and did not provide all the necessary documentation would be rejected after 1 November 2014. I think this is inadmissible and I think it is contrary to the interests of the Serbian citizens, and that is why I suggest we do not vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12617	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12618	I thank the chairman. Of course we can't accept the amendment that was filed with an explanation that there was plenty of time to file all legalization papers. I just want to remind myself that over the past 12 years there have been more calls for legalisation of objects, but there have been no adequate conditions or confidence has been given to citizens that they will all be equally subject to the same legalization conditions. That is why the multi-year process has been unsuccessful, while at the same time the very lax foundations of legalisation and the mistrust of citizens have been struck according to this process itself. That in the previous year alone, citizens have taken the legalisation call seriously shows these submitted 800,000 demands. Unfortunately, the truth is that a small number has been granted licenses, but we've just heard that they're very complicated procedures for obtaining permits. This period was very necessary for this government, or the ministry, to see all the brakes and brakes in this entire procedure. At this point, it would be quite irresponsible to stop the legalisation process and not allow at least these objects that would now be in the legalisation process to be brought to an end, especially at the moment when the state is fighting for every roof over these people's heads affected by these elemental disasters. I want to say one more thing, that this government has not missed opportunities or missed opportunities, nor has it lost its patience as some who have spent this year of responsible actions much longer than ten years of their unsuccessful attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12619	Mr. Stefanovic, you and Mrs. Martinovic are registered, but I can't give you my word because I don't have the time I can give you, only Mrs. Martinovic can. Only if she's not in the O.R. then I can give you the authority. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12620	So, when the promoter says that we have not offered solutions, he should know that amendments to the law only respond to amendments in the part to which the amendments apply. That the proposed changes referred to everything that I spoke of as essential legalisation problems, which is a matter of procedure, a matter of compensation for the construction land, a question of project development. So, if the amendments were applied to these members, we could react to what we consider to be a fundamental problem of legalisation and in this sense propose amendments if we need to propose them. By extending the deadline by just another six months without solving all the other things that cause the problem and making the legalization process more difficult, we're not going to achieve anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12621	Pursuant to Article 1 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted a Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment at the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12622	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications, I would like to explain the essence of this amendment. Today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Legalisation and the law itself which is currently in force from 2013 has defined the extremely demanding and extensive documentation needed for legalisation. The amendment that we have submitted on behalf of the board should, in fact, be defined when delivering which extent of the documentation, means when citizens supply certain documentation and within which we extend the possibility of submitting documentation. So we're extending the time limit to file for six months, and now this amendment defines exactly what size it is. This amendment defines that the documentation from the first phase of the legalisation process under the basic law of 2013. The law also defined two stages of legalisation in 2013. The first stage is the stage in which it is realized, defines the possibility of some object being legalized and, of course, for that stage, it needs relatively modest and the basic, necessary documentation submitted by citizens. The second phase of legalisation is where the possibility of the facility being legalized has been established. The competent authority of local self-government has defined the possibility of legalisation and in this case citizens are obliged to deliver accurate and extensive documentation. To prevent citizens from entering the risk and at a stage when they still don't know whether they can carry out the legalisation process, whether they can legalize the facility so as not to enter that risk and file extensively, we are in fact defining this extension of six months only applies to this modest and first and basic amount of documentation. Now that I've taken the floor, I'd just like to say, to define that these six months that this law prescribing a delay is actually a deadline for us citizens to meet to achieve their right of legalization, but we didn't say that something after those six months is going to change drastically. I reiterate, in a conversation with the ministry, we are aware that a comprehensive law is being prepared that will resolve the legalisation process comprehensively and I hope once and for all to stop talking about legalisation in Serbia and that we are all building with permits, that we all have the necessary permits and that we all have our property booked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12623	Thank you. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After these two minutes, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. We talked when we talked about this law in principle about the reasons why the congregation majority, i.e. Proposer, 190-200 MPs submitted this amendment and to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I see that there is no good will here to accept the amendment that I have submitted, to explain to them what the essence of this debate is. Therefore, the new Law on the Legalisation of Objects illegally built in the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2013, was adopted to replace the so-called Dulic's law, which in your opinion was harmful, corrupt, nothing. You then passed the law that you said, it was your story, that he would solve the legalisation problem in Serbia and that the legalisation problem, i.e. Improperly built objects, to be forgotten. Let me remind you that the initiator of the amendments to the law was the Constitutional Court, which declared so-called the so-called Constitutional Court. Dulic's law is unconstitutional, and I will explain to the citizens of Serbia what he was unconstitutional, what it was that was against and why all this debate in the assembly. The law stipulates that all those who enter the legalisation process pay between 500 and 1,000 dinars per square metre legalising their living space, while citizens who received building permits in legal procedure, such as Nis, paid between 1,800 and 10,000 dinars, depending on the residential zone. That was the first difference. So inequality, discrimination between those who have built legal ones and those who have illegally built, i.e. They couldn't get a used permit for their facility, to simplify it, because it doesn't mean that it's all illegally built, that somewhere it's detached from the project, so it's illegal construction. The second condition for which it is not fulfilled and for which the Constitutional Court has declared this law unconstitutional is the following. According to the Law of Legalization, it did not require the same documentation to obtain a building permit. What was that all about? What has this new law completed, that those who legalize the facility should have? In fact, it takes exactly the same documentation when you get a building permit in legal procedure and when you want to legalize. Now a simple question – the one who started building a house or a building and who couldn't legalize it, who couldn't get a used permit, he had some projects, right, so that he could meet all these conditions wouldn't be illegal, he would legalize it, he wouldn't even enter the procedure, he would get a used permit. Here's the difference. The object's plan has not been treated as it is now being treated. Now the Law on Legalisation in Article 3. point 5) treats the purpose and floor of the facility, as well as the distance from the neighbours, so that if you have built an object past today's valid urban plan, with the consent of the neighbours you can legalise only your facility. To translate, to understand each other. According to this article, a bunch of objects can't be legalized. There are so-called. plans for detailed regulation in every urban settlement. If this plan of detailed regulation that affects your street said that there could be a building five plus one plus PK, or five plus three plus PK, so ground floor, three floors and a attic and a height of 22 meters, that's the top quota, you got the building permit, you started building, but you made the height of the crown at 23 meters. And you can't legalize the facility. What's to be done now? The planning documentation should be amended, i.e. The plan of detailed regulation must change. It's done by the city's assembly, the municipal council, at the initiation of the planning board, not to take up your time now, and it costs, provided that this building was moved and that the investor failed, went to prison, went to Germany, doesn't matter. Now all you have are the owners of the apartments that bought the apartments and can't book them. Why? Because it's a tall building. What are we gonna do now? They can't even collect paperwork for these six months. Do we want to tear down the building? So what needs to be done in this law that is valid, whether you like it or not, is a lack, not in line with the Law on Planning and Construction, is not in line with the Law on Agricultural Land, you have not adopted a sublegal act that should be said to apply. You have indetermination in this law – it is too widespread. Data: 100 objects have been legalized in the city of Nis in a year. Under the past law, two and a half thousand objects. There's no way anyone's right or wrong. But it doesn't work. A law that doesn't give results isn't a good law, like it or something. Under this law, you can't legalize an auxiliary facility, and you will. That's where you made the pass. Now we keep defending the law. That's why I said, "People, give me four years." What if you don't pass a new law in six months? Are we going to talk here again about how wrong she's been past power, so let's go on for a month? It's not malicious. I'm perfectly well-intentioned to tell you what's wrong. If in one city, like Nis, 30,000 people apply and only two and a half thousand are legalized, in this year only 100, and most of the weekend, something's not good. It doesn't matter if you or I are in charge. The law isn't right and it has to change. What if you don't change it? Afterwards, hypothetically I ask, six months, if the new law doesn't come and we don't extend this one to the Assembly, we're going to put people in danger of breaking their houses? It could be a family house. He didn't hang up on the construction and regulation line, or did he approach a neighbor closer than a foot and a half and he can't legalize the facility, should we tear down his house in the yard? That's what I'm talking about. Give people a chance. In addition, 24,000 items await a solution at the construction ministry because the immovableity cadastre has not been updated, especially Belgrade and Nis. These people, even if they had all the paperwork, they don't have the footage from the catastrophe until it's resolved at the Department of Construction. This is resolved at the level of six ministry officials and is waiting two years at a time. What are we gonna do with these people? He won't be able to complete the paperwork, and he has everything, and he's done everything like he's building a house, and he doesn't have that paper, he doesn't have complete documentation, and he can't legalize the facility. Are we going to tear them down too? So I'm telling you, accept the amendment so you don't look at each other here every six months and talk about something that's not just up to us, because that's what the Department of Construction should do. In the last 15 years, the same people have been in the construction ministry, only ministers and assistants have changed. Officials, architects and engineers remain the same. These same people are going to make a bill that we're going to adopt, not other people coming. In the municipalities of law enforcement, neither Democrats nor Radicals, nor Progressives, nor Socialists, nor Ursovites, nor G17 work, but professionals, architects and engineers work. And the inspectors are building engineers. No matter what party was in power, they're always inspectors who control their city. What are we going to change here? We can't change it. We can't bring them in from Bulgaria, because it takes time, a colleague, a waist, and the waist is something we all have to respect, otherwise we're going to make a terrible mistake. Please accept this amendment, we still have time for the debate, so that we don't do any harm and that we don't bring people into doubt. What I've heard is that the basic problem with people for legalization, it's a high compensation which is now for legalizing objects as well as for newly built objects. Believe me, those who haven't legalized their facility for 30 years because they don't have the money to pay for legalization, we can pass whatever law you want, whoever doesn't have the money. This is what we're questioning their living existence, which I don't believe is on anyone's mind in this room, but what it looks like when you read this law. The application of the law depends on those who are at the bar and the question is whether they think the same thing as we think in this room. That's why the law has to be clear, so that we don't leave the possibility of abuse of what we bring in our best interest. I ask the congregation majority to accept my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12625	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word is proposed by Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12626	Thank you. The previous speaker has opened a lot of topics and I'd like a few answers, and yet I don't want to open a longer discussion. I agree that there was a need to pass the Law on Legalization, but you forgot to say that when the Constitutional Court knocked down the previous part of the Law on Planning and Construction, he did it first because that part was cut off by the Criminal Law. That part you left out to say, because at the same time construction without a building permit was treated as a criminal offence, and by other law you could legalize, or municipalities could legalize buildings, but by 1,300,000 illegal objects obviously didn't do it. You said we passed the law just to bring it in, so we could forget about legalization. Of course it's not like that. I just want to remind you that in one year, it's impossible to do something that's been going wrong for years or not at all. As for the very text of the amendment, you have here suggested that the words "six months" be changed in the words "four years". I find this simply unnecessary to do now. Simply, from the story we had on the principle debate day, we said that the six-month deadline in which we will only bring new regulations, and the step in which we have done on the committee, more specifically the amendment that the Committee has submitted, which reduced the documentation, stated more precisely that this six-month deadline in which to provide the documentation needed to determine the possibility of construction, which means that citizens will not have to pay any compensation and will not have to work on a project carried out unless legalisation on their facility is possible at all, so that the citizens will certainly not be burdened with unnecessary costs. Also, you listed 24,000 items in the second degree. You'll agree with me, these cases haven't been in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12627	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12628	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a debate on amendments to the Bill amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects. It's one of the types of laws that come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia these months. There are laws to be passed because of EU directives. For those laws, it's characteristic when they're passed so they don't apply. Other types of laws are laws that reduce income, wages, pensions, etc. or raise taxes. The third group of laws we are now discussing are laws extending deadlines for the application of some laws. So, the government had a year together with local self-governments to apply the law, to legalise illegally built buildings. Instead, before the end of that period, the government sends us a law requiring that deadline to be extended by another six months. I realized my colleague Bradic's amendment in a different way than what he put it here. I understand my colleague Bradic's amendment that he has given enough time for this law to be applied when this government leaves, because this government has no ability to enforce any single law. For what? Well, for the basic reason why ministers don't do their jobs, they're just racing about who's gonna be standing in the rain naked. Since they are not doing their job, since the minister who was in charge of the realisation of this job and not sitting here today is asking for a colleague, Rakic, on behalf of him, to give extra time to implement the law, I, my colleague Rakic, ask you the following few questions. Where is the analysis of the effects of this law? How many objects are legalized during this period? What did the local self-government do, what did the Republic Government do to apply this law? You can't tell me you didn't have authority. You have authority from the Republic to the House Council. Believe it or not, the president of my home council is from SNS. So, from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the president of the municipality, they're all from the SNS. Why didn't you apply this law? Why didn't you bring the sublaws? Which is why you haven't arranged the procedure you were talking about today. My esteemed colleague Stojiljkovic, from your party, says that you have been able to see who the brakes are and who is holding this process back for the past year. Is this government here to see who the brakes are and who's stopping the process? The biggest braker is this government and ministers who know only one thing, to make promises, and the characteristic of those promises is that they are beautiful and, unfortunately, they do not come true. None of them have been accomplished. It's the same with this job. So we don't know how many objects are legalized, a very small number. Mr. Bradic said you mentioned it was a small number. We don't know how much money was collected that way? Are they involved in the infrastructure preparation of these locations? No, there's nothing to do. We don't know what it is, for example, with the application of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit? The law, counterpart Rakic, was meant to ensure that all these facilities were registered, that the owners paid taxes and that the state collected revenues. Where are the revenues in the budget that we've been discussing these days, in budget rebalancing, these huge millions or 800,000 facilities? Well, if 100 euros were paid by every owner of that facility, that money would be seen somewhere. Do you know what that money is? So you've passed this law. He was supposed to be a parallel law with the Law on Legalization. There are no effects of this law either because you have incompetent people at the bar, mayors, presidents of municipalities, etc., and because you have incompetent ministers and people who help them, because there are no effects, apparently. You come to the assembly and instead of that minister... I'm asking you, why are you planting your backs for incompetent ministers and local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12629	Mr. Veselinović, please, a little more respect and address me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12630	This is absolute. I'm not talking to you as chairman, I'm talking to an authorised representative, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12631	Yes, but with a little more respect for both ministers and the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12632	This is top-notch respect. So, I'm saying that the MPs with their signatures, and here they are 100 and I don't know how many people have asked to extend the deadline for the application of this law and for the incompetent representatives of local self-government. I now believe that there are many honest and honest people among these MPs and that they have no reason to put their backs on because of the mass of incompetent ministers sitting here. Here, today they're not going to tell us anything about these effects. So, I think, if you've taken these new six months, that you have to do everything to remove obstacles to legalize these objects, to remove the need for a citizen who wants to legalize his object to go to 10 counters, to retrieve the documentation that these organs already have. Did you say one counter? Why are you talking again today about seven counters and returning to the first counter, your colleagues? He says, "17 tents, and then they bring him back from that 17th counter, and they put him back on the first counter." Mr. Babic said. Why do you have 17 counters? Why did you bring in the extra counters? You, gentlemen, have missed the time to legalize these facilities, to have these people acquire property according to one law and to be registered in the immobility register.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12633	Thank you. Time's up. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12634	Thank you. I believe he's a broken member of 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the speaker must stick to the agenda and to what is on the agenda. The respected previous speaker used expressions and called some mayors, some ministers and other officials incompetent, which today is not the subject of this debate and is not the point of the agenda. But, Mr. Chairman, I must agree that there are incompetent mayors. Unfortunately, there are several. I believe the respected previous thought of the mayor of Sapac, who, among other things, came from his party or from the party of his coalition partner, who during the May floods showed the peak of incompetence. I believe that's exactly the incompetence the predecessor was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12635	Thank you. The apostle who spoke was warned Mr. Bradiche, you can't go over the line. [[Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I want a replica.]] There are ten more MPs before you. The word is by the MP Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12636	I would like to point out to article 7 which says - the meeting of the National Assembly is not allowed to address the MP directly to the other People's Parliament. Unfortunately, my colleague, Dr. Janko Veselinovic, kept talking to his colleague Rakic in his presentation, which I don't think is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12637	Mr Stojmirovic, I don't usually interrupt, but I do. Miss Katarina Rakic is an authorised proposing representative and he has the opportunity to address her.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12638	Then I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12639	Thank you. The word is from MP Katarina Rakic, the proposing official.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12640	Thank you. I have to repeat, incompetent people incompetent authorities have put this government in a position like this, where today we have a million and 300 objects that have been illegal in the past 15 years. I don't know if you're building up or if you've forgotten, too, not to use any other expressions, so that you don't get offended and use your exit as something you use all the time. I'm just going to name the situation from one to the next call for legalization. The first call was in 2003, when about 600,000 people applied for legalization, while you had even two laws and a law by which you could punish illegal construction and the Law on Planning and Construction, which you could apply. By 2006, a new 700,000 requirements had been applied. Let's just explain to me, or don't you remember that period, how in three years could it have happened that you had 700 new demands? The effects of this law that is being amended are not yet full years. It'll be the first year of November 1st. I can only tell you the effect for Belgrade, since I talked about the effects in the principle debate. Just because you weren't there and you weren't listening doesn't mean I have to load up the whole gym and the viewers with it. Last year alone, 240,000 legal requirements were filed in Belgrade alone. 6,000 requirements have been legalized, i.e. 6,000 building permits have been issued. You said at the beginning of your address that you would interpret the amendment as you understood it. You really did, because what you were talking about that management didn't do their job has nothing to do with what this law proposes. It is just mentioned in Article 22, which has not been treated at all. The management did their job. The management has sent word of what's missing from people. People got that. That's exactly why we haven't even changed Article 22. We haven't extended the deadline for the administration to send new notifications to the citizens what they need to deliver. So what we're doing right now is responsibility to the citizens. We give citizens the opportunity, we simply save them the situation so they don't fall into the vacuum, that to the new regulation... The ministry said it was preparing a new regulation that would unite the law that you had just shown and the Law on Legalisation in December. To avoid the fact that on November 1st, the administrations begin to reject the requirements just because they didn't provide all the necessary documentation, so that in December or January we invite them to submit everything again, which is why this six-month deadline for citizens, not to talk about management, management has done their job, sublegal acts have been passed... I don't know why in your head, maybe you're used to doing it like that, that they didn't pass in the past and they didn't follow the laws. I'm saying again, you had two laws and a Criminal and a Law on Planning and Construction, which I'm going to say is the worst written ever, which was butchered by the Constitutional Court, who drove away all the investors, on average 17 months to legalize the facility. Maybe that's why we have a million and 300,000 demands today. Don't switch stories to management now. The law, more specifically the amendments to this law, only affects the citizens of Serbia, would be affected more precisely if they did not reach them. By what you want, by speaking, you are practically punishing the citizens of Serbia. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12641	The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12642	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, first of all, I mean, that's what I was saying on the board, that this problem dates back to 1946, 1947, 1948. So he doesn't date from two years ago, not three years ago, not six months ago, etc. I must tell you, first of all, that I feel like many other colleagues here offended, first of all, because I am the president of the assembly of one city and I have to inform you that in the previous year, since the city's assembly in Zajecar, 77 sessions have been held for a year, where all new regulations have been passed in accordance with the Law prescribed by this assembly. Before that, four sessions were held annually, as in every other municipality, the town, where sessions are scheduled, are told for three months, only to expire and after that story we have a situation that no one knows what is going on in local self-governments. I would ask one who now criticises the city of Belgrade, how can the city of Belgrade do so if a new ruling set in Belgrade is formed in May, how can it be done in six months? I'll tell you what I found in Zajcar. There were no regulatory plans, gentlemen. So, regulation plans didn't exist in the city of Zajecaru, I believe in most local self-government in this country. What do we do with that now? We're here politically again to persecute ourselves. Is it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12643	Please, Mr. Radenkovic, don't disturb the peace of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12644	I'd like to ask my colleagues, since I'm distracted by people walking around in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12645	Go on, Mr. Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12646	These are the things that torture the citizens. Is it necessary now that the importance of this previous law ceases, if we don't extend it today for those six months, to make it impossible for the citizens to do so? Furthermore, I don't feel called for the next reason, for what a recently respected colleague said, 85% of the legalization requirements have been completed in Zajecar, but there are a lot of people who haven't, and I have to tell you, submitted legalization requirements. You know why? Because they don't have the money to pay for it, and we should keep that in mind when we're discussing it here. I therefore advocate that representatives of local self-government should sit in this House. In the end, because these are all the things that life means. Many of us don't go among the citizens, let's see what the problems are. We're talking here by heart or talking by heart because I don't fit myself into that category. I'd like a lot of people sitting in this room to go out to every city or municipality, local community, to put their name and last name on it, and then look at the results of who's how and what they've done. Gentlemen, if we don't talk about whether or not we should, we shouldn't accept this amendment, but we need to pass this law. I agree with my colleague in just one amendment that without that amendment, we can, and without this law, we can't. People professionals, who work in local self-government, which is generally the original income of cities or municipalities, people who work in local self-government, are not able to afford their neighbours, their relatives and others to come out and tear down houses. Who's calling for people's houses to be torn down? Let's forget that story. We need to pass this law, and in the meantime, during the duration of this extension, we need to find the right model of the law that, I repeat, will solve the problem, not from 2003, not from 2001, not from 1997, but from 1947, 1948. That's the basis of the whole story. We need to know that these people, and these are our citizens, our fellow citizens, our friends, our neighbors, etc., we need to allow our facilities to be legalized with as little taxes as possible because they don't have any money, and we need to leave them one decent deadline for that. On the other hand, local self-governments, who didn't finish the job, give us time, too, because in many local self-governments, I'm specifically talking about the city of Belgrade, it wasn't possible... Now don't let us politically attack ourselves here, each of us attacking each other because the government in Belgrade has been replaced. The government was replaced in Belgrade and replaced only six months ago. It can't be done for that time limit. It takes a minimum of a year, a year and a half to get it over with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12647	The word has been made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you abuse, I will refuse you from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12648	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107, has been injured. You know what article 107 refers to. If you listened carefully to the presentation of the previous speaker, he said that someone was calling for the destruction of illegal objects. There are about a million illegal objects in Serbia and it is a serious sowing of fear, and no one in this National Assembly has said that. Maybe Mr. Mirkovic didn't read the amendment. Mr. Bradic in his amendment seeks the possibility of the facilities being legalized to extend from six months to four years. So, citizens are given the opportunity to have four years to legalise objects, and he says someone is calling for the destruction of objects. We could say that someone who's proposed these six months is doing it, but I'm not going to say it. No one in this National Assembly has called for the destruction of illegally built objects, primarily the objects in which people live and whose only roof is over their heads. Other objects are built on water safety belts, etc. I wanted to, and I had to point out this fact, because it's untrue and could endanger the dignity of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12649	Thank you. Mr. Vesenovicu, the word now has Dr. Blagoja Bradic, but since you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a minute and 20 seconds will be rejected from the time of the parliamentary group. Mr. Bradich, you have three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12650	Thank you. Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12651	You have no right to replicate only the time of the parliamentary group, three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12652	You're absolutely right. So my esteemed colleague didn't get the point of what I was saying. I really didn't mention you, nor did I mention Zajecar, I approached Belgrade and Nis. Whether or not someone has time, we are talking about a law passed last year with the intention of resolving legalisation in Serbia. You're telling me that the basic problem, we totally agree, is the price of legalization, but it's unconstitutional. The past law fell due to the price, because it was not the same price for those who legalise objects and those who regularly build new objects. The Constitutional Court said it was against the constitution, so it can't. What you want, the Constitution does not allow, sir. Prices were like that to say, 2,500 objects legalized in Nis, and in the last year today 100 and I'm now asking if that's okay? Is that law good? You say you're gonna change it, and you're only changing the deadline and I'm saying don't be so short, because there's a possibility that the deadline doesn't depend on the applicant. Maybe he needs some administration to give him, maybe some public firm to give him paper, maybe give him a ministry in a second-degree procedure. He'll break that deadline, because it wasn't delivered in time, he won't have the paperwork, and then what, to answer him that they can't legalize his facility? That's why I say put on four years. Your answer is - we'll pass the law in six months. What if you bring it in seven months, and what if you bring it in eight months, we want to extend it again in two months? I'm just saying, people, give it instead of what it said last year, a year, you said a year and six months, I say we write four years, and then look over it, ask the Chief of the Building Planning Board throughout Serbia, they're making a problem. They know what's bothering people. They're in contact every day, much more than the MPs. They're an expert on that, and you're saying I'm malicious. Okay, in the end line to convince you, I know I won't. I'm not saying this for your sake, I'm talking about these cameras so people can hear what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12653	Thank you. (Saša Mirkovic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. You can only talk about the amendment, but after Mrs. Branke Bosnjak. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12654	I am fully convinced, I speak on my behalf and on behalf of my parliamentary group, that we all have the exact same positive intentions, which is that we end the process and the legalisation process as effectively as possible, by citizens as painlessly as possible, but not only for citizens who apply for legalisation, but also for certain citizens who may be threatened by some illegal object that was built. I'm sure we all have the same intentions. In that sense, I want to clarify what this law we're discussing today is talking about. He only talks about extending the time limit for submission of initial documentation. So, the amendment's proposal, which says the process extends to four years instead of a year and six months, where, in its explanation, the proposings say the legalisation process extends to four years. This law is not an armed legal process. This amendment does not propose a legalisation procedure. And if we want to speak truthfully and honestly to the citizens, we must honestly tell them that we are not stopping the legalisation procedure by this deadline that we define today. We're just extending the deadline for the paperwork. I think that today's deadline to extend the additional six months, the possibility for citizens to turn their initial documentation to their local self-governments, must be quite enough, and the legalisation process will continue. On the other hand, I have to say that all the numbers that we're talking about today really just testify to how much the problem of illegal objects and the problem of building is one historic, our national problem. We are still working in Belgrade on requirements for legalisation of buildings from 1996. None of us, none of you should refer to one authority, another authority, one law, another law. We are all interested in forgetting legalization, helping citizens get their files as simple as possible within the shortest time limits. What is most painful in legalization is the restriction of local self-government. It's those tortured 10, 20, 50 officers who have to process a huge number of cases. Once again, I will say in Belgrade the Secretariat for Legalisation numbers about 90 employees. Of these 90, 40 to 50 are operatives and professionals, and 240,000 are raw objects. Even a proposal for this amendment that says, for four years, he couldn't physically calculate and operate on all these requirements. So I ask you to support this law, which only has one member. We're extending the time limit for the paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12655	The word has been made by MP Sasa Mirkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12656	I just wanted to say it one more time, and I agree with my colleague, Bosnjak. We had this same attitude on the board on this issue. This law is necessary for local self-government to continue to function normally. As for a former colleague who told me, I didn't speak to you, nor did I say there was a problem in Zajecar, because it's not a problem. But Belgrade's local self-government cannot transfer something to the new Belgrade local self-government, because it has failed to do something in five months. It's just physically impossible to process it. There's been a problem, I'm saying, and I'm just saying that there's been a problem with local self-government since 1948. Once again, local self-government does not have enough potential in the workers themselves, so they can process everything. These are the things that we have to deal with, first of all, people from the government, the Ministry, we must also be on the committee of the Assembly and the sea at the end of this feast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12657	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12658	Thank you, President. The proposed amendments and additions to this law aim to extend the deadline for the collection of necessary documents to persons who have applied for the legalisation of illegally built objects. According to the old legal solution, the deadline is until 1 November 2014, and since we know that a large number of legalisation applications have been submitted, it is necessary to extend that deadline so that most applications are not rejected. However, I believe that the proposed deadline for four years is needlessly the time interval of four years, that it is very unnecessary and too long and proposed a four-year period in my opinion devises the objective of the law and the intention to legalise illegally raised objects within a reasonable period of time. It is unclear that the proposal of this amendment should be extended by four years, because I believe that any natural person who has already collected a part of the documentation and submitted a legalisation request may, within an additional period of six months, collect the remaining documentation and complete the request that would then be resolved within the shortest period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12659	Thank you. Members of the 2nd Amendment were brought together by the MPs... The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. You've got two minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12660	So, as a promoter, I would ultimately like to do it again for Serbia's citizens to explain the story that has been here all along. We all agree it takes a deadline to extend. I said in the opening statement, in the principle debate that my party and my coalition, the parliamentary group, would support what is necessary for citizens to meet. It means that if we voted against, we would do them harm, because as of November 1st, they would be in danger of getting a solution that rejects the possibility of legalization. I guess that's clear for everyone in the O.R. Who doesn't know? Let him ask those who do the work. What I have proposed, and calling for a disagreement between the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Legalisation, the Law on Agricultural Land, means that it is the day of the problem generator in some cases in legalisation. The discrepancy of these laws is the inability to obtain valid documentation. Second, the Catastre of immovableity, where we said we had 24 items in a second-degree procedure. It doesn't all depend on the applicant's demands. The third is the cost of legalisation, which is by decision of the ministry and by law of 2013, where this amendment applies to that law, is equal to the price paid for municipal costs and all that goes, those fees paid for obtaining a building permit in the regular process of obtaining. That's the third condition. The fourth condition is the size of the documentation. Only in Nis 30,000. We heard 240,000 in Belgrade. He needs those papers. Even if it takes some consent from a public firm, that's the problem. I said give that deadline to complete the paperwork, because there's a possibility that it's not a fault to the applicant, extend it to four years, that's another three years. I don't mind if we extend the deadline, and I'm just saying it's short notice and we'll be back in this room in six months to talk the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-29-0.u12661	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The representatives of the proposings and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 October 2014, starting at 14.00 a.m. as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Now an explanation. The voting system is malfunctioning, the services said it took them 10 minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs were present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 173 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Law on Judges, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 179, not two of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – eight abstentions – there are no, three of the 182 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending the Law on Judges, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, four of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed by majority vote a bill amending the Law on Judges. 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – two, abstentions – there are no, nine of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – no, 179 of the total 184 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Branka Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 175 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 4. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – 10 abstentions – no, four of the 185 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Legalization of Objects After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the Legalisation of Objects, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, against – two abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 which, on the basis of Article 157(6) of the Treaty, has become an amendment. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 182 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Dr Blagoje Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Balša Bozovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 181 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier, only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – 10 abstentions – there are no, three of the 185 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on Legalisation of Objects, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on the Legalisation of Objects. Since we now need to decide on the proposals of the law on the approval of international contracts, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. 4th item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE TRADE AND WEAPON I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract on trade and arms, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 184, not one of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. 5. Point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Data I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Spain on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. 6th item of the agenda – List of candidates for the President of the Competition Protection Commission Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the List of candidates for the President of the Competition Commission, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that under Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Professor Miloje Obradovic as President of the Competition Protection Commission. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – 11 abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total 185 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Milo Obradovic as President of the Competition Commission, most of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the President of the Competition Protection Commission on the election and wish him a lot of success in his work. 7th item of the agenda – List of candidates for members of the Competition Protection Board Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the List of candidates for members of the Competition Board and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's choice of jurisdiction with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that the list of candidates for the selection of members of the Competition Protection Council contains the same number of candidates as the number of members elected. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Veljko Milutinovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, v – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, not eight of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly chose Dr Veljko Milutinovic as a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 against – 10 abstentions – nine of the 185 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Marko Obradovic as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v - nine, abstention – one, 11 of the 185 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mark Obradovic as a member of the Competition Commission's Council for most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to choose Ivan Ugrin as a member of the Competition Protection Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, v – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, not 10 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivan Ugrin as a member of the Competition Protection Commission by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Board of the Competition Protection Commission in the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PARLAMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR SSTALISATION AND ASSOCIATION As the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association with the majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
