ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the Minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Mirjana Dragas, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miodrag Nikolic and Olgica Batic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and exceptional for Monday, other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Logs of the 7th and 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Since today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 November 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 14 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 November 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 18, 19, 20, 24 and 25 November 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 on 18, 19, 20, 24 and 25 November 2014. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. A group of 131 MPs, he proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 24 of the total of 168 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a list of candidates for the selection of a member of the National Educational Council, who submitted to the National Assembly on 4 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – two abstentions – 19 of the 172 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Insurance Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total of 172 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on payment services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total 172 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – three abstentions – 17 of the 175 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, 18 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The National Bank of Serbia has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 21 of the total 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors be put on the agenda to determine the facts regarding the use of the funds of the Environment Fund, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 5 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Games on Happiness, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstention – one, did not vote 169 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, according to an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – five, abstention – one, 170 of the total of the 178 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zlata Djeric suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected as judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three, abstentions – there is no, 174 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? The People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15672	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I think it is very important that we include in the agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is this session, the proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Parliament of Zoran Zivkovic and me at the end of September. I just want to let you know what this supplement of the Higher Education Law is about so that every MP, I think, by my conscience, and by my own congratulation, may also decide to vote for the adoption of this proposal as a part of the agenda. Namely, this proposal complements the Law on Higher Education, we propose that as one of the basic principles of the higher education system in Serbia, the principle of academic honesty, gentlemen, is also defined. We also suggest that the supplements define what academic honesty is based on, and believes that there are no more MPs here, because this is the fifth or sixth time that we are trying to convince the MPs to discuss in this Assembly, that academic integrity is based on independent writings and strict respect for other people's copyrights, gentlemen. Surely there can be a question here – and why would it be so important to discuss it today, for example, or during this session, this session? There are two reasons. One is – because there is a serious doubt that some of the highest state officials, for example, acquired diplomas or scientific titles in an unfair way. Another issue concerns one observation by the Minister of Education, Mr Verbic, who said there are no clearly established procedures in our higher education system for assessing what is plagiarism and what is not. Dear gentlemen, I think, if we accept that what Mr Verbic said is true, that we must not allow our system of higher education to remain without clearly established procedures to determine what is plagiarism, because if we do not have a procedure for it, then that means there is no academic integrity in our system of higher education. I have to say I don't agree with the minister. At the Faculty of Political Sciences, for example, there is a rule on academic honesty, but if the minister thinks it is not all clear, then I believe that academic integrity must be defined as a principle in higher education, because this will also mean a focus on order in the state, but also on honesty in politics, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15673	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on freedom of fear, which was submitted by a group of 19 MPs to the National Assembly on 20 November 2014. Does Ambassador Stefanovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15674	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam President, the Democratic Party and the New Party, which absolutely supported this proposal, have submitted a proposal for the adoption of a law on freedom of fear. We filed this law in the congregation procedure some time ago, and this is the first time we have addressed this House with a request that it be put on the agenda. We believe that the adoption of this law, unfortunately Serbian citizens, has its full justification in today's life and the way the government functions in the Republic of Serbia. This law on freedom of fear is part of the bright tradition of the Serbian opposition and the Democratic Party, because the last written act and the law proposed by the opposition in this House in 1945 is before the disbanding of political parties. We are proud of the continuity with the Democratic Party that had the courage then, in the authoritarian regime, to propose a law on freedom of fear. Why does Serbia need a law on freedom of fear? Because it is very effective, in just four members, to sanction the executive power or part of it that, if by any move, acts, act or inaction, forces Serbian citizens not to use their rights, to refrain from it or to do something contrary to their rights and freedoms, using fear or pressure that causes a strong sense of fear or threat to Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, it is exactly what the Republic of Serbia is best described at the moment. There's too many similarities that we can put in the same plane with those wooly times that stayed, we thought, forever behind us. The Democratic Party believes that by adopting this law and putting on the agenda before it shows that it understands that in Serbia never, ever, the executive power will use instruments, that through levers that cause people to feel afraid and threatened, they give up their guaranteed civil rights and duties, that they do something or do against their will. There's nothing wrong with that, it's a noble cause. This is what makes us Democrats, not just DS as DS, but all MPs in this assembly. If the assembly majority refuse to talk, discuss, put this bill on the agenda, you will show that there is a tree of freedom that, in addition to all attempts to suppress it, will bring its fruits to Serbia. I must say that I am proud to say this here, today's executive power is using visible and invisible levers to force Serbian citizens to do something or to withdraw certain rights...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15675	Thank you. Your time is up. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 159 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 November 2014. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15676	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act for the first time I have presented it to you. I want to tell you that this amendment to the Health Insurance Act was made together with the National Association of Parents of Children with Cancer, better known as NURDOR. The desire of parents of children is that through this bill we regulate their rights and help them fight together with their children to heal their children, and the bill proposes that parents be able to stay with their children for as long as their children are rehabilitated. Namely, the current Health and Health Insurance Act, the parent of a sick child can take up to three, four months maximum, and we have witnessed that many conditions, such as leukemia, oncology treatments of small patients, take much longer, and that is why NURDOR wanted to talk about this topic. That's why I've written this bill with them, and that's why we're talking about this before the MPs. I think it's a good idea to support parents who fight together with their children for their children's lives, to allow them to have the right to be with their sick bed, to have the right to be as long as it takes until the children are cured. In many cases, parents are forced to quit their jobs because individual treatments last more than a year, a year and a half. This amendment would also enable a human gesture to show parents and severely ill children that at the most difficult times the state helps them and enable them to be away from work through one support, to be with their children. The second proposal in this law is that parents of severely ill children are allowed 100% compensation for illness, since they are forced to buy expensive medicines, that these children who are suffering from severe diseases, from severe cancers or leukemia, are forced to eat better food, multivitamin food, and it is a little illogical that parents who are on sick leave, who are struggling with their child, to further reduce their salary to 65%. So, one of the suggestions is that their compensation for the sick be 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15677	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 4 July 2014. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15678	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this is the proposal of Zoe's law and you are witnesses that I am asking for this law literally in the second term of the National Assembly. The proposal for this law was also in the previous assembly procedure. This law treats children who suffer from rare diseases and this law is not political law. He comes from a family who lost a girl who called Zoya. The desire of the small Zoja Mirovljevic family is that no more children who suffer from rare diseases in Serbia have such problems at their pain and their problems. The desire through this law is to cover all our children who suffer from rare diseases with one systemic solution, not to depend on any variation in some clinics, but to know clearly what the rules and obligations of healthcare professionals are when it comes to rare diseases. I want to tell you that little Zoya, as well as many other children who are struggling with one of the rare diseases, have a problem in Serbia because many times there is no diagnosis. As a doctor, I can tell you, when you don't make a diagnosis, when you don't have a diagnosis, it's very difficult to treat that child. This bill regulates that doctors in Serbia are obliged to send unless they can make a real diagnosis, within six months the law would oblige them to send tissue, blood, saliva, muscle samples to one of the reference laboratories in Germany or France, to make a diagnosis and to start treating those children after the diagnosis. I think this is the law that, in my opinion, is the top priority. I don't think there's any major law, no accession to Europe, no co-operation with Russia, but the very responsibility to the socially endangered layer of society, and these are our sick children. There are indications that they are working to correct their status through the formation of a humanitarian fund and by enabling the treatment of certain types of rare diseases, but I believe that children who suffer from rare diseases cannot depend on any humanitarian aspect, but must be systematically resolved, that the surrounding countries in Europe have systematically resolved the rights of children suffering from rare diseases. That's why I can't go any other way, but here's the first time I'm going to say it out loud and publicly, I'm asking that this law be understood as being the most well-meaning and that we vote for this law. This is not the law of a political party. This is the law of a family who lost a child and this is an appeal that none of our children have any more problems with any doctor in Serbia when they can't diagnose. Let's make a diagnosis, start treating them, and that's serious systemic health and serious state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15679	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the proposal for a law on insurance, a draft law on payment services, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word to explain? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – seven abstentions – there are no, 19 MPs did not vote from a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted most of the votes of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions under Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – five abstentions – there are no, 19 MPs did not vote from a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Insurance Act; 2. Proposal for a payment service law; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security and 7. A list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council. We're going to work on a set agenda. You have received the resignation of MP Aleksandr Jablanovic as a MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on the Election of People's MPs, suggests that the Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the selection of MPs, the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time at which he was elected, to MP Aleksandr Jablanovic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am in addition to the representative of the motions of Dr. Jorgovanka Tabaković, governor of the National Bank of Serbia, invited the sittings to attend: Dr. Diana Dragutinović, Vice Governor of NBS; Bojan Terzic, Director-General of the NBS Legal Affairs Directorate; Djordje Angelić, Director-General of the NBS Insurance Agency; Dragana Stanić, Deputy Director-General of the NBS Payment System Sector; Dejan Djević, Deputy Director-General of the NBS Legal Affairs Directorate; Srdjan Milovanovic, Director of the Department for indirect supervision of the business of NBS and other NBS entities and Marina Papadakis, Assistant Director for Legal Affairs of NBS Governors. Also, I welcome the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Dr. Jorgenko Tabakovic. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 5 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law on insurance, the draft law on payment services, the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Does the proposing official, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the NBS, want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15680	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, I am in the post of governors, you are in the office of MPs, but all representatives of the citizens, because we are always after functions, and before them. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, you are facing today's proposal for an insurance law, the first in a set of financial laws proposed by the NBS to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with its powers. With this set of regulations, the institution I run, gives its contribution to reforming the regulatory environment in the Republic of Serbia, and in order to bring it closer to European standards. The change in the law governing insurance puts the top priority of the Serbian government exposed to the April prime minister's exposé. The insurance law, which the NBS has prepared, contains all the elements of the reform law, and therefore we expect that by adopting it, order should be put in place in this segment of the country's financial system, which will improve both the investment environment and the protection of our citizens. The National Bank of Serbia has been performing a surveillance function since 2004. When I took over this institution, I found myself in a very poor state with an outdated regulatory framework and an inefficient mechanism of action. For this reason, throughout 2014, it has been dedicated to reforms in this segment of NBS jurisdiction. The draft insurance law, which we have found, which has not received positive criticism from the professional public, because it has not worn essential changes in relation to the existing system, fully innovated, in line with European standards, as well as standards of relevant international organisations and institutions that reflect best world practice. We have presented the new, improved text of this regulation to the public court and received positive assessments from representatives of the insurance profession, businesses, the scientific public and the competent state authorities. The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia gave a positive opinion on it immediately prior to the entry of this proposal into parliamentary procedure and noted that it would be a qualitative step in regulating the insurance sector in the Republic of Serbia. Many quality suggestions received in the public debate opened in May of this year have been incorporated into the text and have become an integral part of the bill. This occasion I thank all those who took part in the public debate and helped us to make this regulation the best and more acceptable for future application. The adoption of the Insurance Law is also one step in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. It is designed in general to reflect the current legal regime for the EU's work of insurance and is therefore one of the objectives and contribution of its adoption and harmonisation of domestic legislation with European directives. Although the initial assumptions in drawing up this bill were the EU directives, which are currently in application in the area of insurance, it also included indications of some future trends in this area. The European Commission has had the opportunity to make an insight into the text of the Insurance Law proposal and has made a positive statement on it. Similar opinions came from foreign investors. That is why we have reason to believe that this regulation will create the foundations of a modern and regulated insurance market in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, by changing the law governing insurance in the way that we have provided for this proposal, there will be assumptions for further development and improvement of the activity of insurance companies, more efficient and quality business for insurance companies, increased financial discipline on the insurance market, and certainly better protection of citizens and business entities in the role of insurance, insurance users or third party users. Therefore, the National Bank of Serbia will contribute to not only the reform processes and European integrations of Serbia, but also what is the basic mission of our institution in supervision of financial institutions, to provide citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the opportunity to use modern, clearly understandable and their needs tailored financial services, i.e. to carry out their rights uninterruptedly on this basis. I will present to you the most important newspapers that would introduce the insurance laws and their expected effects in the areas. First of all, it's about the work of the insurance company. The proposal of the Insurance Act provides for appropriate terms which define this activity. Groups, subgroups, and species that are in general in line with EU directives are classified. The same applies, what the public is particularly interested in, and to the inability to simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities. In fact, insurance companies are not allowed to be established as entities that will simultaneously carry out two of those groups of operations, but on the other hand, it is permitted for companies that are found in such a situation, to retain their jobs, but subject to the condition that they carry out all the necessary actions in order to carry out the separate management of assets, capital and liabilities. This solution is also familiar with the European directives, and for the Republic of Serbia, it was chosen as only appropriate at a given time, since the previous legal framework did not provide for the full demarcation of life insurance and non-life insurance activities, which was the intention of the former legislator. The proposal for a Insurance Act is a much more detailed matter related to the establishment, organisation of business and corporate management of insurance companies. It is allowed to be established as one person, and a detailed system of company management bodies is developed, as well as their competences. For all issues which are not particularly regulated by the law of the insurance companies, there remains a law governing the legal position of companies. The proposal for a law on insurance is more precise and comprehensively regulated in the role of the National Bank in licensing activities. The conditions to be met by applicants are regulated, criteria assessed by the NBS, as well as the reasons for refusal of the requirements, i.e. the withdrawal of licences and consent. As the EU directives prescribe, the focus of licensing and consent activities will be on persons who gain participation in capital above the prescribed thresholds, persons who exercise management, technical capacity to carry out their work and business planning. Consumer protection, which is also the ultimate goal of overall surveillance of the performance of the insurance activity, has also been significantly improved in relation to solutions so far. One of the most important newspapers is a chapter dedicated to the obligation to inform insurance contractors, whose application will improve citizens' awareness of the legal nature of insurance products, i.e. to prevent any delusion of insurance rights. It is also arranged that the insurance seller is obliged to inform the buyer, i.e. insurance on the manner, time limits and other relevant issues related to the exercise of rights arising from the realization of a harmful event. On the other hand, the insurance company's obligation to store confidential information about their clients has been arranged. The sale as an important aspect and specificity of the activity of insurance is regulated more precisely, with the most significant change in the way in which the entities in the capacity of the channel are defined, which should contribute to their significant role in the development of the activity of insurance, but protect the interests of the interested parties. The proposal for an insurance law has amended the solution so far which required that insurance representation transactions can be carried out exclusively on the basis of a working relationship, as this solution has proved to be counterproductive in practice. Other forms of legal coverage of these transactions open the space for the channels to be sold better controlled, but to prevent work on black, i.e. that the state is regularly granted appropriate privileges. The proposal for an insurance law introduces a new size of how to calculate the adequateness of the capital of the companies for the purpose of ensuring multiple guarantees of their permanent insolvency. The base capital censorships are in line with the solution set out in the EU Directive, but their future automatic alignment with the European Consumer Prices Index is foreseen. The amounts selected should have no significant impact on the capital flows at the macro level, which was our goal at this point. A more qualitative adjustment of capital adequateness does not lose the census itself, but the insolvency is estimated on the basis of sufficient capital, to absorb the risks really taken, which is the intensity of the European directives. We expect that the newly established ratio of the available and required margin of insolvency with the guarantee capital concept will provide a much more precise and reliable picture of capital adequacy in insurance companies. Investment is a very important component of the insurance companies' business. The new provisions governing matter are more flexible than the previous ones, and much more important is given to the investment policy of the insurance companies themselves, which also corresponds to trends in modern European legislation. This is also expected to be an incentive to focus the investment potential from the security activity on financial instruments and to act as a boost to the development of the domestic financial market, which will become more and more significant as the insurance activity itself develops. The insurance company will be obliged to establish a modern and efficient management system consisting of four functions, internal control, risk management, internal audit and actuation. This way, self-discipline is expected to increase insurance companies' self-discipline and warn many of the risks in their business. The National Bank of Serbia will continue to seek more efficient and reliable methods of quality education of authorised actors in the licensing process. Also, the proposal for a law on insurance is closer to the issue of external audit in the activity of insurance. The aim is to ensure that actuation and revision are reliable controls and indicators of potential difficulties in insurance companies so that the timely reaction of supervisors can remove problems before they escalate. The National Bank remains committed to protecting citizens and businesses as insurance, insurance users and third-party damaged persons. The proposal for an insurance law lays down improved control provisions that should raise its efficiency, speed and efficiency, as well as to be based on more comprehensive and reliable information coming from insurance companies. New forms of supervisory action have been introduced, including public disclosure of information and written warning measures, surveillance measures are widely expected to be more effective. Perhaps the most important newspaper is the introduction of the possibility that the National Bank of Serbia directly imposes fines on supervised entities which will be a significant factor in raising market discipline. In addition, there is a basis for additional supervision, i.e. The supervisory of a group of insurance companies. In order to speed up the conclusion of negotiations with the EU and the World Trade Organisation, the proposal for an insurance law also contains provisions under these negotiations, which concern the activities of insurance. These provisions will take effect after the inclusion of the Republic of Serbia in those organisations, primarily on the freedom to provide services, i.e. to carry out activities of insurance across branches. In this way, we further contribute to the acceleration of the course of these negotiations, but we also protect domestic entities by allowing them to prepare adequately for quality competitive competition in the remainder of time. In addition to the above, the Insurance Act also brings a number of other innovations that you could learn about from the very text of the proposed regulation, and from the reasons that we have prepared and delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are absolutely sure that all the proposed solutions make improvements for both insurance operators and for the overall market and financial system, i.e. citizens and business entities using insurance services. My associates and I are before you today to take part in the debate and give all the necessary answers and clarifications. We thank you for accepting that this legislative proposal is being considered by an urgent procedure, and rapid harmonisation of the insurance regulation is also necessary for the reason that European legal assets are also changing as a result of which new alignments will be expected in the future. The proposal for a law on insurance, which is before you today, creates quality preconditions for these future processes. I expect that we will continue to conduct a quality and constructive debate on the proposal for this law, and we will try to make sure that all proposals of MPs and that those who bring improvement are entered into the text before adoption. I move on to the explanation of the Bill on Payment Systems, and it is indeed a whole new law that is introduced into the legal regulation of the Republic of Serbia. They don't say by chance that it's the blood flow of the financial system. In addition to the market institutions operating there, it is a critical component and a presumption of the smooth functioning of economic flows. The liquidity of financial markets depends on the stable and efficient functioning of established arrangements for clearing and levelling payments, and their safe and efficient functioning is of fundamental importance for maintaining financial stability, implementing monetary policy measures, speeding up economic activity flows and reducing the overall social costs of money transfers. Article 4 point 9. The NBS Act is prescribed to regulate, control and improve the smooth functioning of payment traffic in the country and abroad. Article 59. – that the NBS takes care of the efficient and secure functioning and development of the payment system and, in accordance with the law, adopts regulations governing this system. On the basis of these powers, and for the purposes that the NBS wants to achieve in the area of the payment system, which I will present to you today, we have prepared a bill on payment services which in a comprehensive way regulates the payment system of the Republic of Serbia, and above all three important continents – the provision of payment services, electronic money and payment systems. Rapid technological developments, the emergence of new payment services and instruments and the general trend of improving the provision of these services at global level over the past decade have led to an increase in competition in the market for payment services and the emergence of new participants. On the other hand, it also increased the need to provide comprehensive and effective protection to users of these services. The legal framework for the provision of payment services has been established by the Law on Payments which no longer constitutes an adequate basis for the development of the market for payment services in our country, as well as an incentive to the real economy. The Law on Payments characterizes a whole series of restrictions, and I'll just list some of them. It is restrictive in respect of institutions which have the right to provide payment services, the most important payment services such as issue, acceptance and payment of payment cards, cash transfers, payment made through telecommunications and other similar operators are not particularly regulated. The direct obligation is not defined in a way that corresponds to the real characteristics of this payment service, there is no regulation that detailedly regulates business and supervision of payment systems, there are no provisions that reduce systemic risks in the event of insolvency of one of the participants in the payment system. This law does not regulate a large number of issues that need to be regulated legally, and the solutions applied to the greatest extent are not in line with the modern market for payment services. The Law on Payments does not regulate or recognise electronic money, nor the electronic money institutions, and practical problems and misunderstandings are present in the interpretation and application of certain provisions. For all things, today the NBS presents before you a bill on payment services, which in a comprehensive way regulates the payment system of the Republic of Serbia, and I said, above all, three important continents – provision of payment services, electronic money and payment systems. The most important newspaper that the Bill on Payment Services adopts is that in a systematic and comprehensive manner, with respect to the principle of legal certainty and rule of law, it introduces new economic operators on the market for payment services, payment service providers, electronic money institutions and payment institutions. In addition, this proposal regulates contractual relations between providers and payment service users, introduces an electronic money institute, regulates the business of payment systems and monitors of participants in the market for the payment system of the Republic of Serbia, prescribes criminal provisions and whatever is necessary in this respect. The basic objectives that the National Bank of Serbia wants to achieve are: further improving and modernising payment traffic in the country and abroad, increasing the protection of payment service users, especially consumers, ensuring reliable, secure and transparent business of payment service providers, increasing competition on the market for payment services, introducing payment institutions and electronic money institutions, improving business and competition of payment systems and finalisation in essential payment systems and reducing systemic risks, establishing uniform supervision of the National Bank of Serbia over the business of participants in the market for payment services and overcoming problems which have not been addressed by the current Law on Payments, creating real assumptions for further modernisation and adapting of the national payment system by models and rules applied in the most developed European countries, introducing a single account register and for natural persons. The proposed Law regulates payment services in line with global market and regulatory trends, above all in the EU. In addition to services already developed and arranged enough, opening and keeping accounts, payment, payment and transfer of money and issuing and acceptance of payment cards, this law shall for the first time, in a explicit and systematic manner, regulate and service the execution of money orders, as well as payment transactions performed using modern telecommunications or information technology devices, via telecommunications operators. It is realistic to expect that this will increase legal certainty and improve the section of the payment market relating to payments using modern technologies - the Internet, mobile phones and the like, and when it comes to our country, of all online shopping channels in dinars in the country, primarily because of the absence of a legal framework for electronic money institutions, only payment cards issued by banks are available. The next important problem that the National Bank of Serbia wants to address is that, in accordance with the applicable law, only banks and postal-telegraphy companies can deal with payment transactions. This prevents all potential, non-banking payment service providers from doing these jobs, resulting in a lower degree of competition, and as we know, as always, has a negative impact on the quality and price of services. According to the provisions of the applicable Law on Payments, only banks and companies of PTT traffic currently have the right to provide payment services in the Republic of Serbia, of course not counting the jobs carried out by the National Bank of Serbia and the Treasury Administration. The solution proposed by the National Bank of Serbia allows access to the market for payment services of two new categories of payment service providers – to payment institutions and electronic money institutions, as well as to extend the range of payment services which will be able to provide a public postal operator, which should also directly reflect the increase of competition in this market and quality, price and variety of offers of these services to users. The establishment of domestic electronic money institutions and the provision of electronic money payments through these institutions is not regulated at this time, nor are there any other legal assumptions for the operation of these institutions. This situation has a very unfavourable effect on the development of electronic business and electronic trade in our country. The proposed solutions of the electronic money institution will be able to deal not only with electronic money issues, but also with the provision of all payment services set out in the law. Therefore, with prior permission to work and supervision of the National Bank of Serbia, the prescribed operating conditions of the electronic money institutions are somewhat more stringent than in payment institutions, taking into account the possible risks to which these institutions will be exposed, illustrations for the sake of doing so, the provision of prior consent to obtain qualified participation in these institutions, e.g. for more than 10% of the share in capital or voting rights, and initial capital is higher than in payment institutions and is 350,000 euros, in dinar equivalent. Electronic money is normally defined as the digital equivalent of cash, i.e. the electronic stored monetary value that is issued after the receipt of money and is accepted as the means of payment from third parties. This money is therefore a prepaid instrument and is used for payment without the necessity of using an account in a bank. Electronic money can be hardware, e.g. a chip or magnetic strip on a card or software storage, e.g. Virtual accounts on the Internet payment server. Although the share of electronic money is still significantly less than the share of other payment instruments in the world, the growing digitisation of financial services will undoubtedly contribute to its growing use in the future. The establishment and operation of electronic money institutions will contribute to a more efficient application of the Electronic Trade Act, which is closely linked to the electronic payment method and will directly increase the supply of online payment services, will improve the security of payments via the Internet, as the introduction of electronic money will allow payment without using payment cards, preventing the possibility of their abuse that can be achieved when the data contained on it is exposed. The introduction of electronic money and institutions that issue it will overcome the current situation in which those banks providing a payment card acceptance service on the Internet are in a position to impose conditions on all traders who want to enable the purchase and payment of their products online and due to lack of competition in the light of the institutions mentioned. Also, the creation of legal assumptions for the business of payment institutions, as well as new types of financial institutions, will allow companies to deal with the provision of cash transfer services in accordance with their own business definition, which so far has been possible through banks, PTT transport companies, issue and acceptance of payment instruments, including payment cards, IT technology payment services and the like, as well as by providing most of the other payment services that have been reserved for banks so far. In view of the importance of the transactions to be dealt with by these entities, a legal regime will be established with detailed licensing rules and prudential supervision to be applied to the business of payment institutions. The capital requirements for these institutions are significantly lower than those for banks. The initial capital is between 20,000 euros and 125,000 euros in dinar equivalent and depends primarily on the choice of payment services that these institutions will provide and the risks they will take in their business regarding these services. The possibility of a business so-called business is also foreseen. hybrid payment institutions, i.e. business companies, which can, in addition to the provision of payment services, be engaged or already engaged in other business activities, e.g. telecommunications services. What is important is to point out that the proposed law offers the possibility to develop new payment services and instruments through its technical neutrality and the introduction of electronic money, thus improving the diversity and quality of services for payment service users, electronic money based on a card and so on. The server of electronic money, mobile phones as a payment instrument, "Near-field communication" technology - NFC, you all have this on your mobile phones, etc. When it comes to the obligation to inform users by payment service providers in the conclusion of a payment service contract, in the pre-contractual phase, when changing and supplementing the contractual provisions or information to be provided to the payment service user before and after the execution of payment transactions, the applicable Law on payment services and the Law on the protection of financial services users of those issues shall be dealt with in a partial, selective manner and in a significantly less detailed manner than is necessary. A number of issues such as deadlines for the execution of payment transactions, the availability of appropriations, the consent of payers for the execution of a payment transaction, receipt of a payment order, withdrawal of a payment order, the moment of irrevocability of a payment order, the liability and conduct of an unauthorized, incomplete or incorrectly executed payment transaction, the currencying of funds, the burden of proof in the case of a dispute and other issues, the applicable Law on payment services does not regulate or regulate them in an inadequate or incomplete manner. The law proposed today by the National Bank of Serbia provides in a detailed, comprehensive and balanced way greater protection of payment service users, particularly natural persons. Some of the most important solutions that the law makes in this respect are: the obligation to provide complete and detailed information to the payment service user prior to the conclusion of services with the payment service provider; the obligation of payment service providers to provide the user with the relevant information before and after the execution of the payment transaction; transfers of payment services in dinars in the Republic of Serbia must be carried out during the same business day; the responsibility of payment service providers in the event of a non-executive or unlawful payment transaction; the liability of payment service users is limited in the case of theft, loss and abuse of not only payment cards, but also any instrument; the currencying of the transaction may be exclusively in favour of payment service users, and the burden of proof of the payment service provider's obligations in the largest number of cases being borne by the provider, rather than the user. So far, the way users have used their undefined rights has given us the right to introduce such a newspaper. Furthermore, the right of payment service users to dispose of cash immediately after such funds are authorised in his account; the principle of transfer of funds in full as stated in the payment order, without payment service providers and intermediaries participating in the execution of the payment transaction on the rejection of their fees and costs; the ability to recover funds and in the case of an approved payment transaction, for example, direct obligations where the amount of this transaction could not be reasonably expected and other conditions of application, so-called ‘ser principle’ means that any payment service user may pay compensation only to its payment service provider, i.e. that the additional fee does not have the right to charge either the payment service provider of another payment service user who participates in the transaction or any intermediary. The law precisely regulates issues such as the moment of receipt of the order, the conditions under which the payment service provider has the right to refuse the execution of the payment order, the fees charged by the payment service provider to the user in respect of the execution of the payment transaction and other significant issues of the relationship between the provider and the payment service user. With its overall content, this law gives a positive impulse to use a secure payment method, which can undoubtedly have a positive impact on reducing the use of almost money in circulation. Direct debt in EU countries is a very popular and cost-effective service for paying municipal services: water, gas, electricity and the like, as well as other regular taxes, while in our country, it is a security instrument in place of a typical payment service. Relatively large use of payment services such as payment order, as well as e.g. the use of debit cards, too high for cash withdrawal on ATMs and cash payments, is characteristic of underdeveloped payment services markets. The dominant way of paying in the Republic of Serbia is the transfer of appropriations, including a transfer order and a payment order, with very little participation of direct debts in total payments, while the payments of electronic money in dinars do not exist for the already mentioned reasons. The adoption of the law proposed by the National Bank of Serbia will allow for a change in our market payment habits. Next question. In our country, the regulation governing the business and supervision of payment systems is incomplete, and not all systems are particularly protected in the event of a failure to pay one of the participants in the system. The draft law provides for comprehensive rules for the establishment of payment systems, the establishment and consistent application of requirements that will improve the safety and stability of their work, the increase of competition, as well as the verification of the compliance of payment systems operations and operators of these systems with the law. The next important issue to be regulated by this law is to lay down rules that should ensure the finality of settlements in significant payment systems, which seeks to greatly reduce legal and systemic risks in the execution of transactions in these systems. By establishing a register of natural persons accounts, which is a newspaper, which will be run by the National Bank of Serbia and which will not be public, the law will contribute more effectively to the work of competent courts, the MUP, investigative and other bodies that have the right to obtain data on these accounts in the appropriate procedures. The law also abolishes the obligation to keep the register of powers, which will lead to the discharging of banks, as well as debtors and creditors. Given that the National Bank of Serbia is in charge of overseeing almost the entire financial sector in the Republic of Serbia, other than the capital market, and that it has professional and well-trained personnel in the area of supervisory supervision, the National Bank of Serbia is legally entrusted with supervisory powers over the operations of payment institutions, electronic money institutions and payment system operators. In addition, the National Bank of Serbia will also oversee the business of a public postal operator related to the provision of payment services and the provision of electronic money, which has not been the case so far, given that JP PTT's traffic in Serbia is one of the largest payment service providers according to the number of clients who pay daily in value by the number of transactions they make during that time. The National Bank of Serbia has been provided with appropriate instruments, including the possibility of fines and withdrawal of work permits, so that the supervision carried out can be both effective and effective. Finally, but no less important, the provisions of the Bill on Payment Services are also to comply with EU rules in the field of payment services and electronic money, i.e. with the provisions of the Payment Services Directive on the internal market, the Directive on the establishment, supervision and business of electronic money institutions and the Directive on the finality of settlement in payment systems and securities settlement systems. With this in mind, and taking into account the launch of negotiations under the chapter on freedom of movement of capital, a special part of the law is dedicated to provisions to be applied after the accession of the Republic of Serbia. These provisions regulate the deadlines for the execution of cross-border payment transactions and payment transactions in euro or other currency of a Member State, then cross-border provision of services, i.e. the possibility of the operation of payment institutions and electronic money institutions from Member States in the Republic of Serbia and vice versa, as well as cross-border co-operation between supervisory authorities in the Republic of Serbia and the EU to improve the conduct of supervisory tasks. As the law provides for a whole series of new solutions, a transitional period is also foreseen until 1 October 2015, i.e. until the start of the application of this law, and we adopt it today so that all those who will be in legal traffic can adequately prepare for its application. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you in the shortest and the newspapers regarding the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which we have provided in the framework of a package of laws that we have proposed and relating to payment services, and I would like to present to you in the most significant lines a newspaper which will be particularly interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those to which the jurisdiction of the law on the protection of users of financial services is extended. Although one of the main motives why we included this package and this law was in fact its alignment with the Bill on Payment Services, the proposed solutions are achieved far more than that. This law takes an important step towards improving the protection of users of all banking services, removing the majority of the lack of an existing legal framework observed in its current application and creating appropriate preconditions for timely and effective prevention of abuse and the removal of irregularities in the behaviour of financial service providers, particularly banks, towards their clients. Among the most important solutions first, the extension of the protection provided by this law to entrepreneurs and farmers should be singled out. Taking into account the need to provide these persons with all information and explanations on the basis of which they will be able to see whether the offer corresponds to their business plans and needs, it is proposed that when taking credit, taking money, making payments and using other financial services, entrepreneurs and farmers have the exact same position as ordinary citizens, natural persons. Unlike them, legal persons usually have larger resources. Real opportunities for a rational assessment of the services offered are at a higher level, and the comparison and selection of more economically acceptable offers in their case are also higher, so a solution, such as in the dominant parallel practice, is retained, that legal persons continue to be not subject to the provisions of the Protection Act applicable to citizens. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility of legal persons, in accordance with the Law on Banks, continue to be dissatisfied with the bank’s behaviour by objecting to compliance with the provisions applicable to their contractual relationship. The bill also extends protection to security providers, which has not been the case so far. The embassies, the jury, the owner of things that are being established by the law, they have so far not had, and now they will enjoy almost equal protection as the beneficiary of the financial service. The basic reason for such a solution lies in the fact that in practice, the provider of the means of security, the laureate, the jury and does not know what the contract contained in which he or she is guaranteed or guaranteed for any amount of his rights, and in the event of infringement of his rights, he did not enjoy procedural protection as a user. This law changes this, because now all pre-contractual information and copies of the contract will be delivered to the security fund provider, and he will be able to address fully in the event of violations of his rights both to the bank and to the National Bank if he is not satisfied with the bank's response. If the rights of users guaranteed by this law would not remain an empty letter on paper, it is essential to ensure effective procedures for the protection of the rights of users of financial services. Hence, special attention in its application is devoted to this particular problem. Thus, the proposed solutions accelerates and makes it more effective to exercise the rights of users, by shortening the time limit of the bank to respond to the client from 30 to 15 days, with the possibility of the bank extending the time limit by 15 days only exclusively for objective reasons, i.e. where there is or were circumstances which could not be affected. In addition, it will be explicitly prescribed that the bank and the financial service provider will not be able to charge any charges and other costs for handling the complaint, and will be obliged to make it possible to submit complaints on their website on which they must provide the user with information on how to object and how to act on the complaint. All of this will cut short and make it easier for the client to exercise his rights. Furthermore, if the user is unhappy with the complaint or the financial service provider did not respond within the prescribed time limit, it may address the NBS complaint which, if it finds that the bank has committed a misdemeanour against the client, and the bank may also be fined in cases and in the manner prescribed by law. In this regard, newspapers in this law are also an extension of the range of penalties of the existing, very narrow and inflexible framework, from 500,000 to 800,000 dinars to 80,000 dinars to millions of dinars, which will allow each individual case to be measured depending on the severity of irregularities and behaviour of the financial service provider in a balanced manner by the amount of fines. The basic purpose of the existence of fines is that they are pronounced whenever circumstances arise for their application, and not that too high penalties are prescribed which would then be relatively relatively in practice by avoiding being applied because of disproportionateness in relation to the work done. In addition, an improved process of intervention in which the National Bank appears as an institutional mediator, given that the financial service provider is further disrupted, to find a compromise solution in the process of intervention, of course, in the interest of the users, in order to reduce the risk of a possible sanctions that the National Bank of Serbia may impose on him and public disclosure of information on irregularities made by the bank. The very important news is that the National Bank of Serbia directly assumes responsibility for examining unfair business practice and unfair contractual provisions in the supervisory work of the financial sector, which represents an appropriate parallel to the recently adopted solutions in the Consumer Protection Act, which is in line with the relevant European directives. Thus, as an unfair business practice, for example, the notification of a financial service provider sent to the client, to increase the chance of the user of such a card winning a prize game by using a particular financial product, such as a credit card, travel, cash prizes and the like. This law entrusts the National Bank of Serbia with effective instruments, not only as regards the measures to follow after bank irregularities are established, but also affirms the role of the central bank, as an institution that will be able and preventably to react and direct fair market practice when it sees unwanted behaviour towards clients in the financial sector. Also, as I said at the outset, this law is in line with the proposed Law on Payment Services, by the fact that the contractual material on payment services in general is now regulated in the home payment service law. Namely, the contract for opening and keeping accounts and the contract for issuing and using payment cards will be governed by a payment service contract in the Payment Services Act, which has a far broader meaning and content, as it covers not only these account and card services, but Internet payments and payments via mobile phones and other telecommunications devices, monetary signals and other similar services. On the other hand, when payment service providers approve short-term loans, which they will be able to do with the appropriate capital adequacy under the Payment Services Act, they are fully subject to obligations and the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. One of the important papers of this law is a provision under which all banks that have granted loans in one type of course before 2011 will, as a rule, be required, for banks of a lower course, and according to which clients are obliged to pay off commitments on another more unfavourable type of course, which, at least, will facilitate compliance with the obligations of the bank's clients after the start of this law. Finally, given the extent and depth of the changes that new legal solutions make, a transitional period of three months is foreseen to prepare financial service providers for its application, except for provisions concerning compliance with the Payment Services Act, which will be applied in accordance with the deadline in which it will start to apply, and these provisions will apply from 1 October 2015. So, only the provisions of the Payment Services Act. And a few more words about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act and the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists, which lies in this package because of the need to comply with these two basic laws that we have come before you and I will most briefly say what is necessary about them. The only motive to propose amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act was to make it possible for new participants on our financial market, domestic electronic money institutions and payment institutions to be established from 1 October of the following year to make possible to enable foreign electronic money institutions, such as Pej Pal, to send and receive money on the basis of electronic purchases of goods and services through these institutions. I have to repeat because of all those who don't want to hear, not thinking about you here, but in public, please don't get me wrong. The only motive for proposing amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act is to bring the new participants, on our financial market, domestic electronic money institutions and payment institutions that will be established from 1 October of next year, to allow what is already possible for foreign electronic money institutions that have been able to carry out operations that residents can carry out abroad, that is to say, to send and receive money based on electronic sales of goods and services. Despite the crystal clear provisions and the unambiguous reasoning of this law, however, signs appeared in the media again even last week, the so-called. "domestic experts" in this area who have made the claim that Pei Palu will be legally allowed to perform this reception service only since 1 October 2015 in accordance with the hidden hope that 100 times the false word may once become true. "Ignorance of the right does not excuse," says the famous legal proverb, but in this case as in other similar cases, the NBS will insist on educating the public by preventing the spread of misinformation in each individual case in order to prevent the adverse consequences of ignorance or bad intentions from being reflected in the confidence of investors and the business environment in our country. And this time, we stress that all legal barriers to the introduction of money reception services for our residents through foreign electronic money institutions, removed in 2012 in favour of this, say not only that Pej Pal officially notified the NBS in October of this year that he had suspended the e-money reception service after three days exclusively for technical reasons, not because of regulatory barriers, but also that already licensed EU companies are providing money reception services to our residents whose names would not be instructed not to look like an ad, because it is not appropriate. In addition, by amending the Foreign Exchange Act, the NBS becomes a foreign exchange control body for electronic money institutions and payment institutions. The Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism is with a minimum number of members of the laws that we change in fact before you only because of the harmonisation with the Law on Payment Services, and therefore we delivered it in this package because the NBS is overseeing the application of this law, with banks and other financial institutions that it controls, our supervision is extended and in the part of preventing money laundering on payment institutions and electronic money institutions. So, since we have been in control of the authorities in the financial system so far, our jurisdiction is being extended to these payment institutions whose formation we expect from 1 October 2015. It is also explicitly foreseen that these institutions are bonds of that law, and an exception is made to taking the party's monitoring measures when the value of electronic money is below a certain amount, which is fully in line with the relevant regulations in this area. To conclude the opening statement, where I have tried to be neither excessively principled nor too detailed, that I am proud to present to you the laws written in the National Bank with the help of profession, science, all stakeholders, with the acceptance of all well-intentioned useful advice and that you have before you laws that are not written by listening, whispering of any interest group, any lobby, future institutions or anything like that, which makes Serbia, I am convinced, finally crossed. These are the laws that should contribute to the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore you, ladies and gentlemen MPs and all those who watch and listen to us, please give support to these laws, because we are all thus taking the obligation to improve our activity in this area, and the National Bank will indeed serve Serbia and all of you with the people who wrote it today. I thank you for the attention you've heard my testimony with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15681	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The Word has a representative of the parliamentary group, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank, after your presentation, detailed, precise, clear, we have very little to say to the MPs. You've done it, as always, when you're defending something, in a very explicit way, very clear, everyone understands. That fact itself speaks of the seriousness that you have set out to resolve these questions. But you didn't have an easy task. The laws were already announced by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in his exposé. They've been expecting each other for a long time. They were expected by both professional and scientific public. You had yet another task, to harmonise these laws, to harmonize with EU laws, and also to do so with what is expected when Serbia is a member of the World Trade Organisation. You did well, and that is why the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, because it is reform laws, will give full support to these laws. I'm not going to talk about all the details. You've really said it very extensively. I'm going to try to say a few things, and that's that we're going to give a few amendments to some of these things under these laws a little fix. I hope that you will carefully consider our amendments, and when we talk about the details of this, we will discuss it the way we have discussed it. The area you've regulated is a very complex area. It is an area that is dynamic, which is changing rapidly, where big newspapers are introduced and these questions need to be answered that are really very complex and very difficult. First of all, I mean what you said, which is electronic money, electronic business. You know, when we got the first machines, it was a miracle for us. The money-lifting machines are already out of line. This means that this rate of change in this area will be really big and the faster Serbia will change and reform it will be part of the European community, which is our goal. Second, we'll really be able to compete with everyone else. I am absolutely sure that with the team you have at the National Bank you can respond to all the challenges that will be, because you have a bar that is professional, which is educated, which is qualified for all the challenges of modern technology business, and about banking and everything that awaits us. What's very important is this is a matter that's quite professional. There are many new solutions, the new institutes, which are unknown to citizens, but I think we're going to find a reason to apply all this to our work. All of these laws that you have proposed have the basic aim to regulate this area, the insurance offices, financial operations, payment traffic, to protect the rights of users of services, to make these rights clear, transparent, to protect the citizen, and to increase the responsibility of whoever provided these services for a simple reason because in this area we had a lot of what had been in some earlier period of vague interference and it was often in these situations that the citizen was the one who was damaged and had to account for the bank or someone else. I'll start with the Insurance Act. In this law, which is a thorough and basic law that you have given, which is broad, you clearly specify what life is, not life insurance, then improve the quality of services, transparency. What I want to point out is that it's a special service offer. What is good and what you yourself said in your presentation, offering services will be able to go and when someone is not in a permanent working relationship. The oversight role of the National Bank of Serbia has been strengthened, and that is what is good. It's good, because that's how we're gonna stop the mixing that was happening in this area. You often conclude insurance and the one who did, offered, disappeared from the market, and then you don't know how and how to regulate your rights. In this part, it is also very important that these are also financial organisations that have significant capital. It is very important that they participate in the financial market. That's why resolving these questions is very important to us. This law is one of the basic laws you've proposed. The next law you've proposed is the law on payment. It is indeed reformable because it better regulates on the market basis the rights and obligations of banks and clients. I will not stress what you have said, electronic banking, electronic money, payment cards, now it is much better arranged, more precisely, more clearly, especially from the point of view of those rights of users of services that will be heavily protected and which will now be able to achieve their rights better, better quality and more transparently. What's good about this law is that there are no more monopolys in providing payment services. Simply, that exclusive won't have just banks or mail anymore. Other participants will also be able to get involved in payment traffic, with the license of the National Bank of Serbia, because if it is not there, there is no control, because we always try to find what is good bypass routes, but I hope that you have trained that sector in your National Bank, that these licenses and all those in this market will be controlled. A unique physical account register is a very good thing. It's a good thing it's classified, but that's why the competent state authorities will have insight into it. I mean the courts, the police and everyone else who's gonna be in control of everything else. All you said about the law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services is exactly the alignment with these previous laws. It's good, further clarification, further regulation of these issues. We're aware of the fact that this isn't the end. This is a rapidly changing area. I expect that we will get some changes again very quickly and certainly in the National Assembly to discuss them, because this is the fastest-changing area, an area that will in any case have what we all expect. I also support the position in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act that JP PTT conducts exchange operations and participates in payment transactions with abroad. That's good. Often, speaking of public enterprises, giving some postulates to the market, we expect that public enterprises cannot participate in the competition. I don't see why she can't. The public company PTT "Post-Serbia", as you know, is doing positive business, bringing income, benefiting from it, and I see no reason to be out of the competition. That's good and that's what we'll always support in the coming period, because public enterprises shouldn't be burdened by state and taxpayers. Public enterprises can also make profits if they are well run. The last law you've offered us, amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, that's something to be expected. It's a world phenomenon. Unfortunately, it's negative, so that monster has to get rid of it. Serbia as part of the world must participate equally in this part of a world phenomenon called money laundering and get in the way and finance terrorism. Finally, to point out, the SDPS parliamentary group will be pleased to vote in favour of the laws you have proposed, because the reform laws are because you have responded to those tasks set before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15683	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative, MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15684	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Tabakovic, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important set of reform laws ahead. Ms Tabakovic, thanks to her professional education and experience as a longtime MP, explained all the bill's proposals in a very clear and understandable way. On this occasion, I would like to say that the NS in voting day will support these bill proposals because they are necessary to Serbia right now, which is the financial market and the time in which we live has changed. I have the impression that we've been waiting for some changes to these laws for a very long time. The National Bank of Serbia is controlling the entire financial system in Serbia. As you said, Mrs Tabakovic, these bill proposals will be very important to improve the investment environment in Serbia, as well as to protect citizens. As far as the Bill on Payment Services is concerned, it is true that this proposal improves the security of payment of citizens, above all on the Internet, that less use of payment cards, that it will prevent abuse, thus reducing the circulation of cash, reducing risks, and that this bill, which will soon be implemented in practice, will in some way change the old habits of citizens to pay over money, through a card. So, this bill of law, we kind of go into this modern system or, I would say, even the necessary business, which is increasingly being used everywhere in the world. Now, first of all, in my presentation, I'd like to base myself on the insurance bill. We passed this existing law 10 years ago. In the meantime, we've had several amendments and additions to the law, with an explanation that a new one will come. Indeed, this is a very large, fundamental law, which has 250 members, which has been difficult to look at from all aspects, but a law that will bring us the necessary newspapers. Somehow, at a time when this existing law was passed, very many foreign insurance companies came to Serbia. The Serbian market was estimated to be very important in this area. However, with the economic crisis, which began in 2008, until today, the entire market has not been used properly, i.e. Serbian citizens have not been motivated or educated in the right way to use all aspects of insurance. I think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia to present some information that 27 insurance companies are currently operating in Serbia. Only insurance businesses deal with 23 and four companies' resecuritisation operations. Viewed by the ownership structure of capital, of 27 insurance companies, 21 are owned by the majority and only six by the majority. By entering our market, all insurance companies have received a large number of greenfield licenses and the largest number of insurance companies in foreign ownership is originating in Austria, Slovenia, Spain, Italy, France and Croatia. The basic numerical indicators of the current situation on the market are the following. Compared to the same period in 2013, the total insurance premium was increased by 5.2%, i.e. 51.4 billion dinars. The dominant participation of non-life insurance is 79.1%. Life insurance increased participation in the total premium from 18.8 to 20.9%. The most common type of insurance is vehicle insurance. About 11% of Serbian residents ensure their lives, while the share of citizens who make their own pension contributions is even lower. With all this in mind and all these indicators, our insurance market is certainly one of the most prospective in the region. Our approach to the EU is expected to improve living standards, which will also give greater opportunities to increase the premium per capita. But it is very important to work on expanding compulsory insurance and introducing and improving insurance offers. By expanding compulsory insurance, countries increase the level of protection of the widest layers of the population, but at the same time reduces expenditure in the budget, as the whole expenditure process actually shifts to insurance companies. Of course, in the case of incentives to develop the financial market, it is necessary to work on population education. I have to mention that very few people have been provided with May floods, they've secured their fields, their households. I have information that during the "Depo" fire in King Alexander's Boulevard, even no entrepreneur who had those gigs had insurance on his own goods. These are indicators that show us that we have to work with the population on insurance and cars, life, property and everything. I think it is very important to pay attention to putting an accent on this corporate governance at the moment which includes, among other things, establishing a better system of controls, improving risk management, strengthening transparency, strengthening good business practice, a fair relationship with clients, as well as timely payment of damages. We know that in Serbia today we have very little insurance with the state structure. One of them is "Dunav Insurance". The Danube Insurance is currently struggling with its business, trying to survive on the market. We know that "Such Insurance", as one of the few remaining domestic insurance companies, lost NBS's license to work half this year. Of the domestic insurance companies on the market, there is also "Autosobotage Insurance", "Eneproject Guarantee", "Global Insurance", and that is mainly when it comes to domestic insurance houses. It is true that market liberalisation increases competition. The position of insurance houses by liberalising the market is more difficult, but I would ask you to do everything in the power of the NBS to assist the Danube Insurance and our insurance companies with adequate supervision and all other aspects to survive on the market. When I mention the NBS control mechanism, I see that this law is well set up, but it is a very important application in the practice of supervisory control. I, if you will allow me, will present a negative example of the control of the NBS by a citizen who told me just before the debate on these laws. I'm going to make it one example that, I believe, by applying this new law, that control will be better carried out in the future. What's this about? He contacted the NBS for intervention because the insurance company, through which he secured some part of his assets, did not pay him the money. The National Bank of Serbia reacted and asked the insurance company to provide the reasons in writing. But nothing happened after that, and he called the NBS again. The National Bank of Serbia called for these reasons of the insurance company. The court dispute did not occur because another insurance company, which was in one system, paid the citizen's money. I present this example with the goal and to point out, with faith, that the new law in the supervisory role will have a better application and that this will no longer happen. I think it is also good in Article 65, which provides for all the obligations of the Executive Board, that the provisions of Articles 82 to 84 define the content and information that is necessary to deliver to the client, or to the potential client. You yourself said that the bill regulates the investment of insurance funds, in a way that is consistent with the existing EU directives. I think this six-month deadline for the adoption of sublaws has been adequately measured, given the fact that the start of the new law has been set within the same time as the date of entry into force. So, by chance, halfway through June 2015. Once again, I want to tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15685	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15686	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Governor, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, the fact that today, on 15 December of this year, the budget of the Republic of Serbia is not on the agenda, nor is its debate, nor is it adopted, although it is announced in an exhibition called by the governor when she explained today's laws proposed, says that this government is no better and different from the previous ones, as she announced. These laws are part of the reform package, which was announced by the prime minister, in an exposé, but were announced for the first 100 days of the government. Of those 100 days, more than 100 days have passed, and we came ten days ago in the procedure of five legislative proposals, which the governor has been explaining here for more than an hour, with 567 members by emergency procedure. To adopt the laws in a few days, when you read the reasoning of the law, which began to be written two and a half years ago, when the Insurance Act was first done as a draft and in April 2012 a public debate was held. The laws we adopt today will come into force, some in six months, some in three months, some in almost ten months, and we have a few days and hours to define these laws, which may best be the government's relationship with this parliament and the role of MPs, as she sees them. We need to be one flow water heater, which will not be asked questions, which will vote all that comes from the government or, in this case, the National Bank, without being able to have a quality impact on the bill's proposals, because you will admit that there was little time to just read these laws, let alone enter into some essence, to look at all the consequences that these laws will have. That is the main reason and opposition of our parliamentary group against these laws. We feel that we do not want to agree to this role of MPs who do not have the opportunity and cannot engage in the debate and make quality proposals for amending and supplementing the law. We have submitted several amendments to these laws. We believe that the motionary will adopt them, because they can, and may not, as usual, be seen here who is the amendment promoter, not what the amendment contains. What surprised me when I listened, and I listened carefully to the governor and the reasoning of these laws, is the fact that everything that lies in the reasoning of the law in writing and what the governor said today differs. I don't know if it's because this law was signed by the governor of the NBS, Jorganka Tabakovic, who is with us today SNS Vice President Jorvanka Tabakovic? Some things are not in agreement, what is written and what is said. It was said here that the first version of the law, which was made in 2012, was bad. You can't read that anywhere. I can read you what it says about how there was a public debate and it doesn't seem to be a bad idea. It also says nowhere that the situation in 2012, when Mrs Tabakovic was elected governor, was poor in the area of insurance control. The reason for the adoption of this law says that this law is being passed because in the last ten years the insurance sector has been transformed, market discipline has been increased, new entrants with majority foreign capital entered the market, new services have been developed, and an increased level of protection of insurance, insurance users and third-party damaged persons. The enforcement of the applicable Insurance Act also pointed to the lack of individual solutions, which, with a view to harmonising domestic rules with EU law in the field of activity of insurance, pointed to the need to redefine and improve the legal framework of the activity of insurance by adopting a new insurance law. So, there's no such thing as a bad thing. If there were, maybe we could talk about whether the existing legal restrictions made it impossible for the National Bank to react when the citizens of our country were struck in the pocket from this summer and increased mandatory car insurance by more than 40%. We have asked MPs through parliamentary questions how it is possible for such an increase to occur and if the NBS will do anything? I don't remember getting that answer. These laws, of course, have good sides and exactly what is in the reason for the adoption of these laws, which I quoted, is the fact that the law that was passed ten years ago, today in the area of insurance or payment traffic, is hardly being used in terms of technology development, and above all 10, 12 years ago, mobile phones did not, and these "martphones" did not exist and some of the functions currently used in payment traffic in the world did not exist and of course there was a need to bring our legislation into line with what is happening in relation. That will be necessary in the future. Neither can we imagine how all technology will advance over the next five years and what all possibilities will be and what will happen in the financial services market. The good thing about this law is that there are some provisions that are said to be effective when Serbia becomes an EU member. That's positive and I welcome that view in the distance of the NBS. I hope it won't be that far. Although, I'm afraid, with this government working on that it's not a nearer future. In any case, I believe that today our goal is the same as some of the past times and that we will all make our maximum contribution to that goal and get there. What is good, particularly in the Payment System Act, is technical neutrality and that will allow some new technologies to be applied and perhaps cheaper use of money by citizens, because, I agree, and it is quite good in this reasoning of the law written that today Serbia, citizens, perhaps in the most expensive way, use cash, which is, I say, the most expensive way both for citizens and for the state itself, and that in the future of some countries, in the very near future, we will plan to end the money completely. I think we're still a long way from it, but we have to strive for it. There are good things, of course, in the law on amendments and additions to the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. First of all, what the governor said about the course of payment of loans to citizens who took loans by 2011 under the new law will be calculated according to at least the same type of course, and in any case a more favourable course for citizens, which, given that today is a record-high course, is likely to be over 122 medium-rate dinars, that this trend unfortunately will continue in the future. Even though the governor has been dying for several months now that the situation is under control, that everything is as planned, to the soul, the last statement is slightly moved from that position, so now the governor is offering us examples of Russia and Turkey where the changes in course are much greater than the changes in Serbia, I believe there are some countries where these changes are even greater, but I sincerely hope that we will not listen to someone with such major changes in course in the future and, if we continue like this, I fear that we will threaten in a negative sense both Russia and Turkey, which are now offered as examples in which the situation is worse than in Serbia today. What surprised me at the end of the presentation, Ms. Tabakovic's presentations, and that's her, to say, arguing with the experts who used this pay phone too, that, explaining the changes and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act, once again answers the accusations that the reason for not coming, or the failure to function on the "single" bill, I think you explained it here again that it wasn't, and then you said you weren't going to talk about some other companies so you wouldn't make an ad, but, here, a company we made here an ad in the debate and I don't think there was simply no need for you to break it here with some experts or whoever, who made those claims in public. You could have waited if such a claim came from the MPs and answered it. In any case, we find it inappropriate, I repeat, that such laws are passed by emergency procedure, that we do not have the opportunity to get to the bottom of all the details and to consult with some interested parties to see if there are any other solutions. You said here that the best solutions presented in the public debate were put into this proposal. Maybe someone else thinks that some other solutions are better, so that we could put these solutions here through the amendments to propose them and here to discuss before the final adoption of the law and put us MPs in that bad position, laying down the position for us is unacceptable and that's the main reason for our opposition to the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15687	Thank you. The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15688	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The first thing I have written to myself is that I am sorry that the National Assembly is not the central place to discuss such a law as the Insurance or Payment Services Act, and it is not for objective reasons. I was a People's MP myself, and if I value anything, I appreciate the attitude that the MPs here will make, because they are finally adopting this law. Of everything you've said, I'm going to go first and accept your remark that perhaps my argument to the remarks that "sing pal" is not there, because there are legal restrictions, was premature. Yeah, but I thought this was a place where we shouldn't open up stories that have explanations that someone else doesn't want to hear. No MP has said, perhaps he would not make that remark, but this is the only place I can bring to all of you that you who are truly directed or held to the truth, accept the fact that "sing pal" has no legal restrictions, nor any other institution, foreign payment institution, receive and that there is this payment traffic between residents, or domestic citizens and abroad. But media abuses, where the technical inability that Pey Pal himself has admitted in a letter to the National Bank, continue to create a kind of risk for the People's Bank as an institution that acts self-defense and unfounded. It's justified and this is where I responsibly claim it, relying on facts, and it stays in the record. So, I apologize to the MPs who did not comment, and I responded prematurely to the attacks coming out of the public. I'll explain everything else very briefly. The reason for an emergency procedure is neither a lack of time to talk about the law nor the speed to adopt any solution, I would say jargonically. The reason for the emergency procedure is purely technical. The existing Insurance Act contains a provision that says – unless life insurance and non-life insurance transactions are delimited, they do not separate all insurance houses operating in the regime, and they do not do so until December 31st, with a license on January 1st. You were, I believe, an MP of the previous year, and I believe those before, when that deadline was delayed a few years ago. We have concluded that there is no reason why the Insurance Act, which has not been in line with the EU regulations since April when the old one stopped being a basis, which you are talking about since April 2012, has not been sufficiently consistent with the EU regulations, has not been sufficiently adapted to the needs of this economy, has been done and discussed at all professional levels, institutions, chambers, has been in public debate, in the short version has also been delivered to the European Commission. The European Commission has given an opinion on it. The reason for immediate adoption is that we do not go before you, we or the Ministry of Finance, with an extension of the life-saving deadline from non-life insurance, and then after New Year's, we start with the law, and the law is already ready, approved by all relevant institutions, only MP groups, because of the busyness of other businesses and many reform laws, did not have time to get to know it before we delivered it to you last week. I have to tell you why we didn't deliver it to you earlier. He was ready in May, because for us as the National Bank, who is harmonising its policy under the National Bank Act with the government's economic policy, we have done our job in the prime minister's exposé on time. On July 18th, we sent a package of laws, including the Law on Insurance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but other intrusive and more important laws, reform, did not allow the Insurance Act to be given priority, nor was it a priority. He's not a priority right now, that -- the budget is a priority, but he's too serious a thing to rock as a form ahead of the essence. You don't need a government lawyer. But I also want to explain to you to the citizens of Serbia that the reason for urgency is that we do not come twice to the Assembly and waste our time here needlessly. What I want to tell you first of all is the next thing - that there would be companies that are being provided, that there would be citizens who should pay for life insurance or non-life insurance, or whatever else there should be factories that work, investments that would help to build such capital facilities or reconstruct existing and that there are new jobs, so that they could come up with jobs for the National Bank. No, I'm not modest and obedient, so I'm letting the government deal with other laws, not those in charge of the National Bank for which I'm responsible, but I simply understand the hierarchy of objectives and priorities of jobs. It's not worth the insurance bill, even if it's the best, if you don't have anyone to secure it. It's not worth a split life insurance or a split, if there's no one to pay for it, to use it. It is our goal for all of us that these laws we make have the benefit of citizens. Our laws are a prerequisite for that, but before them there are all these reform laws that you've earned here. I thank you for agreeing to discuss this and, please, the observation that this law will come into force, the Platinum Service Act, for example. On 1 October 2015, it does not disturb the request, does not cancel the request for us to talk about it today, because we cannot adopt it in September so that it will start to apply in October. You've seen from my pretty long one, and I mean the necessary lengthy exposure, how many jobs to do and prepare, so that all those institutions that won't allow banks to have a monopoly anymore, but they'll also be engaged except for housing loans, except for savings, almost all other jobs. Well, we won't just have a banking system, they have to prepare for it. To see if Serbia is the market that will operate here, there must be a licensing department, there must be a system of supervision in place, and in order for everyone to prepare the law to be passed with a period of validity from 1 October 2015, and you must know that, and I just want to further explain it. Anything else, not a single remark you've made, I won't ignore, but a single and real job, a job above all the jobs that the National Bank needs to do is to ensure macroeconomic stability, to ensure stability in which we create a common economic environment where investors want to come and open payment institutions and open banks and keep insurance jobs or to open new insurance jobs. The condition of all conditions for this macroeconomic environment and stability is low inflation. It's not right, but I can't have false modesty, that I say it, and that someone else is silent, but that's a fact that is seen, recorded and must be pointed out everywhere -- Serbia that was at the top of that high inflation with 12.2% of the annual average is inflation to 2.2%, now it's 2.4%. We're a failure by what the memo says, we need to have inflation 4 plus, minus 1.5 means I'm not getting the right result, because I'm not the governor, to the bottom, at least 2.5%, we're below it. But that means that each citizen's salary is really worth as much as he receives. What would it be worth if we had achieved another goal, if we had inflatively filled the budget or if we had a result that wasn't reducing inflation below the final corridor at European level? Don't forget the long-term claim made by one of the German statesmen, not only about inflation, but about stability at all, stability is not everything, but without stability, or in Serbia without inflation, everything is nothing, without low and stable inflation. All of us who remember the '90s, we know that it's not easy to get out of this experience, and in order to plan as individuals, as families, as an economy, as a state, we need first of all to have stability, marketing and financial. This job will continue to be done by the National Bank, but it cannot carry out this job alone, coordinating monetary and fiscal policy and all other factors that should contribute to that stability, whose only one pillar we are, and only one hand that makes it, is the business of all of us, because that is what attracts investors, but also stability which means that today we are talking about reform laws that are not, a respected colleague, just a look in the distance. We are almost fully prepared for Basel III as regards supervision of the banking system, which is something facing Europe's most developed part, because we have 75% of the banking system whose parent banks are in the EU. We will, but whether we want to or not, we need to be not with a view in the distance but with a view to today and reality, creating an environment for the safe operation of all financial institutions, and we do. I really expect your debate to be in this tone, and I will try all the time to be what I am for two years and four months, and that's the governor of the NBS, but that I will remain a man who is sensitive to all the violations of the rights of financial services users, that I look impartially at the work that I do and the users of the service that I do, I am proud of it. I am proud of my political, if you will, backgrand, my political past because all the time I am in the same way that I am sitting in front of you watching and looking at the interest of the citizens and the state of Serbia and the question of what each of us feels should do in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. I am proud that from many corners of the National Bank, I have not brought new ones, I have drawn from the shadow of the most valuable young people in the most productive age when they are able to write such a quality Insurance Act, and it is important that it is different from the one that was in April 2012. I am truly someone who can say - I am pleased that these people have recognized on the Executive Board and the Governor, who is the chairman of this executive board, associates to bring out any idea that can advance our life together. You have such legal solutions in front of you and I'm really proud to repeat -- one part of the people is there, the other is sitting in the bank, not sitting but working, one part of them is there, ready to answer all your objections, questions, and all of them have one common denominator. We work together to say that there is no other interest in common interest in this Serbia, and that is to remain worthy of the functions we perform. The proudest of its function as MPs and long sitting in these benches, today with equal pride but also with equal responsibility for both citizens and you, as representatives of citizens, and towards the Government and its programme, but above all to the future that will measure the move of each of us, I stand before you and do my job. Thank you. In the future, I won't speak for this long, which is a habit of Parliament time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15689	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15690	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs Tabakovic, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, SP – DHSS rarely say they are fully satisfied with the legal solutions that come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but today is the day. For what? Mrs. Tabakovic and I were fellow MPs when we were in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, as part of the ruling majority. If you remember, we've criticised a lot of legal solutions. For what? Because there is something that some ministers now use in the ruling coalition from a wide range of European solutions in an area, a solution is found that is not suitable for our opportunities or a solution behind which the interest of some capital is hidden, however, much more in previous governments and does not essentially go into real reforms and therefore our European path takes a long time. And then, and now I've been saying that the reforms in the area of the banking system of fiscal and monetary policy -- insurance reform is the best thing that all governments have done since 5 October and on this road you've continued and you've really passed laws that absolutely require time. What is it when we say something like this that is commendable without me courting these solutions? I will try to present it to the citizens of Serbia in my own way. When the state auditor submitted a report on his work, he told us that there are just over 16,000 legal entities in Serbia that may be subject to state audit. The review was carried out in 65 legal entities and the conclusion is the same everywhere – the situation is bad. It's not well managed, there's no good supervision, there's no enough responsibility, people say, there's a ride. I think that the banking sector has also shown in recent years, wherever we have an affair with a default-free credit, with the impact of a bank's policy, etc., and these are banks where the state is either the sole owner or has a significant share, these are banks that either have been collapsed or are on the verge of existence, and it is shown that just because all governments have failed to make reforms in the interests of the citizens, in the interest of strengthening the institutions of the system, the state is still the worst employer. However, there are bright spots. One of the bright spots is an independent institution, called the National Bank of Serbia. For what? The law on payment services is something that when you go abroad and you say there's no electronic money with us, there are no new institutions besides mail and banks dealing with electronic payments, there's a monopoly. Thus, if there is a monopoly, then there is a conditionality, then they are higher prices of services, it goes on to harm citizens again. We're someone who talked about the need to introduce competition in all areas of our lives. It is necessary to do so, so you have done it in your sector and you have done your job quite well, but it is necessary for the government to do it in all other segments of its divisions and to strengthen the institutions of the state that must always be at the service of citizens and citizens when it sees before it a civil servant and a state institution must feel justice, must feel security. If that's not there, the citizen doesn't trust the state. Here, as far as the insurance sector is concerned, where after October 5th and still largely betrayed citizens' trust. I won't talk much about the '90s. It was, it didn't happen again. It's an organized bank robbery system, even in the insurance sector. For what? Because the founding capital for the establishment of insurance houses was, I think, $10,000 or $12,000. Imagine, someone who has millions or tens of millions or hundreds of millions of euros in money, the surveillance was very bad, the money was robbed from the insurance funds, there's no money to pay for damage claims to damaged persons, transfers everything later to the guarantee fund, and the bankruptcy of these insurance organisations usually lasts over 10 years. Now imagine a situation where one or even the whole family, there are such cases, for example, in a car accident suffered severe physical injuries, disabled people, cannot collect damages because the state has allowed such people to suck out these funds of public interest, then, although capital has been withdrawn, the bankruptcy manager with enormous powers often does not want to end the bankruptcy proceedings for some and luxuriant reasons and the damaged persons cannot charge before the bankruptcy process ends the money from the guarantee fund, and the guarantee fund is only being rude because it conditions damaged persons to give up the interest that the court has ordered them to pay only the principal, and given the time of time the interest is multiple compared to the principal. When a damaged person comes into such a situation, what kind of trust and thinking can he have about the state? It's the worst possible. Why did you continue in a good way? Because your predecessors, and you are now truly detailed, as in medicine with magnetic resonance or scanner, you literally have a review of the financial stability and liquidity of insurance companies every day, because they do very important social work, they have huge money and huge investment potential. In addition to those earlier, little and rigid measures of the National Bank of Serbia in terms of penalties, withdrawal of work permits, etc., you are now going to a preventive control that is good and this internal control system is being strengthened, as well as actuarial controls and supervisory and control of the National Bank and given one flexibility. On the other hand, our citizens now have a situation that foreign insurance companies under the same conditions as domestic insurance companies can operate here, which again affects the strengthening of competition and the downsizing of insurance prices. At the same time, it leaves the possibility for our companies to operate abroad with the permission of the National Bank of Serbia. Is that good for all citizens? Yes, it is. Is it good to prevent a monopoly position? Yes, it is. Do these legal solutions put anyone on the insurance market in a privileged position? Nobody. It's something we've wanted to see in all segments of our society's functioning. Despite the fact that we and Dusan’s 14th - century code had some insurance elements, the state only became more concerned in the history of insurance in the second half of the 19th century with insurance and legal regulation, and this only began in the early 20th century. At that time, the issuing of insurance permits was a discretionary right, and since 1937 the state has only been supervised by the operations of insurance organisations. It's not bad to mention the '90s, mention those beginnings, and mention that first case of a Belgrade merchant who was with a Trstian company, it seems to me in 1837, secured his house. The house is who knows what reason it burned down after a few days, and he's fully charged the damages. Such examples of possible abuses, no one can say with certainty now that the first secured case of property insurance took place in Serbia and whether it was abuse or not, but in any case fraud in insurance and by insurance users, even international frauds are very large. I'm someone who, six, seven years ago, pointed to organized crime in this area. Some organized crime groups have ended up behind bars, but some, unfortunately, haven't yet. If the mayor of Novi Sad, I said so, and the minister of justice, says that the city's companies that pay compensation for the injuries of passengers in public transport were brought to the brink of collapse, that it turns out that every third Novosadian has been bitten by a stray dog in the city, that there are groups dealing with the diagnosis of false injuries, primarily neck stretches, etc., I think that the state is really in that part, but this is not part of the operation of the National Bank, it should do everything it needs to do, and above all, the Ministry of Interior, Prosecutor's Office and Court. What are the good solutions to this law? On behalf of our parliamentary group, I have submitted several amendments which, I think, are not essential. They concern, above all, one of our views of the Insurance Act, because of the fact that our belief that the law is still a profession, which is, of course, good, and that individual terminology should be either more precisely defined or slightly closer to the citizens, let's say, in terms of co-insurance, reassurance, self-preservation, etc., as well as the fact that the internal auditor should also control the electronic system of data processing and accuracy and urgency, not only financial, but accounting records, which is a very important segment of the operation of a single insurance. What's good is that you've separated life insurance and non-life insurance, but that you've allowed those companies that are now engaged in this type of insurance, provided they're separately managed by assets, capital and liabilities, to continue to do the job, which is indeed an elegant solution and proof of the flexibility of this bill. Indeed, it is important to have a public debate, involving all interested entities, from insurance companies, representatives and insurance intermediaries, insurance associations, associations of Serbian lawyers, chamber systems, universities, etc. I see that all constructive remarks in this legal text have indeed been accepted. Secondly, what is the key is the functioning of a country at a time when wages and pensions are reduced. You know what the perception of citizens is? Our citizens know absolutely well how to assess the situation and the situation and when to be solid and when not to be solid. That's what the Mayan floods showed. This was the response of citizens and solidarity, which is indeed at the highest possible level. Citizens would have no objection to wage cuts and pensions if they saw that the state in all segments of its operation, and above all in terms of financial discipline, savings at all levels, etc., had a uniform approach. It seems to me that the citizens' resignation due to the reduction in wages and pensions is precisely because it remains unsaved at all levels in a way that, for example, saves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by abolishing numerous privileges, privileges, even the abolition of water at committee meetings, which I have nothing against. But if that's how an institution behaves, if some institutions behave like that, then all institutions should behave that way. When citizens see general savings at every level, then what they're asked to save will accept absolutely right. This is how it seems to me that this is the main reason for the public's disdain for the cuts in wages and pensions. What's security? That's what citizens need to know. It's pooling funds for joint risk management. It was made and four millenniums ago it existed in Babylon. The Chinese knew at the caravans that they could pool their funds, so that in the event of the robbery of one of the caravan participants or the entire caravan, they could pay off the damages from that fund. That's what happened when it came to shipping, merchant ships. An interesting fact is that English merchants gathered in London cafes in the 15th century and agreed on making some mini insurance. One of those cafes where they were gathering is a British bar called Edward Lloyd, and today Lloyd is one of the biggest insurance companies in the world. She was named after that bar owner where English merchants gathered. What's good anyway, it's that citizens who secure the property, the life of any kind of insurance will be certain that in the event of an insurance case, they will be paid for the damage. In the event of even withdrawing a work permit, leaving insurance companies in bankruptcy and liquidation, there is a guarantee fund in which money is invested by all insurance companies, which will pay for the damages to citizens. This is the highest value of this law – constant control, not only of the National Banks, but dominantly of the National Bank with the highest authority to give permission, to express the measures, to leave deadlines for the removal of detected deficiencies and irregularities, with one more flexible approach, with one longer deadlines and a softer approach to leaving companies on the verge of insolvency to be able to still recover, so that they do not lose their work permit, which is in the interest of the state, in the interests of citizens, in the interests of the company and all insurance employees. The way I started, that's how I'm gonna end up. I think that if this government in all segments of its operation, and in all the laws that come into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as you have done, applied the best European solutions, if all the governments had done so after 5 October, we would now, formally or not, have a fully regulated state. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and what I want to say in front of my parliamentary group, that even when we criticise the situation in a particular area, and not only praise the blindly all moves that come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it seems to us that we are helping the governments of the Republic of Serbia and the ministers the most, so we have done no matter whether we are in power and opposition, so we will work in order for Serbia to truly be one orderly, normal and stable state of Serbia and all and its institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15691	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15692	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Mrs Tabakovic, respected members of the National Bank of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is on the agenda of a set of laws proposed by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia that regulate very important areas in our country's financial system. I will begin my discussion from the Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which basically continues to be a positive trend towards the approximation of the legislative framework for the work of insurance for solutions applied on the EU insurance market. One part of the insurance law's proposal also stemmed from the need to respect the relevant positions of insurance companies. Moreover, the applicable Insurance Act is quite restrictive and, among other things, created the need to replace a new legal solution that would encourage the development of the insurance market. Among the biggest insurance problems was a long-awaited solution on the division of composite companies and the employment of insurance sellers. We know that, under the current law, it is not possible for someone, along with their regular job and selling insurance, to never have to quit at their workplace. This law regulates that the way insurance sellers are hired is such that they can only do so now if they are employed in an insurance home, while in other EU countries, where the insurance market is more developed than we do, there is the possibility of selling insurance in ways that do not involve compulsory employment. If an insurance company has an obligation to train a worker before hiring him, or in the course of his employment, so when a certain period of time passes that worker acquires the experience of being a good insurance salesman, it really requires both a lot of time and additional costs and, of course, affects the profits of that insurance company. On the one hand, it can be said that it is good that the proposal for this law on ensuring a more flexible approach to the engagement of insurance sellers, because it will reduce the costs associated with this particular training and all other preparatory actions on the recruitment of workers, and that they will be able to organise their time better and make some extra profits, but on the other hand, surely a dilemma can occur about what happens to workers who are already working in some insurance houses, right at the jobs of insurance sellers. As far as composite societies are concerned, according to the proposal of this law, uncertainty about the status of composite societies that have existed for many years, because we know that this time-limit for the separation of composite insurance companies is several times extended, so it is precisely this unresolved status that has been uncertain and poses a real disturbance to the existence of these companies. The proposal for this law, in line with the EU legal solutions, of composite societies already proposed by this law, can already continue to operate as they are with the distinction of assets, liabilities and capital, and any new companies that are established after the adoption of this law can, or must deal separately with life- and separate non-life insurance. Also, one of the major newspapers is the liberalisation of the market for both foreign insurance companies and domestic companies in the sense of opening up opportunities to carry out operations in other countries directly or across borders. The principle of volunteering for security of property and persons remains the basic principle on which insurance is based in our country. Of course, there are also some obstacles that the development of insurance, such as economic underdevelopment, insurance culture and which at an extremely low level, and irresponsibility. Thinking about insurance, and I'm sure you, too, who are more, Mrs Tabakovic, in this matter, may have thought that the best thing, with the bill, is to introduce compulsory insurance for all citizens. But you yourself said, the economic level of development and all the preconditions that should predate the factories to work, that factory workers would, of course, be one of the basic preconditions to increase the economic power of citizens so that the law could regulate compulsory insurance. But what led me to this thinking? Well, exactly the disaster that hit us in the spring and that showed how irresponsible we are when it comes to insurance and protection and property, and when we talk about both individuals and legal persons and when we're talking about the state at all. The real sess asks the question – how is it possible that some large companies that are strategically important to the state were not insured? The floods and disasters that have hit us really need to be a reminder to both the state and the farmers and the businesses and the citizens that legal regulations, the conditions of insurance and procedures and all other aspects that are important for the mitigation and reduction of the consequences of natural disasters must indeed be approached strategically and comprehensively. One of the problems is that citizens are not sufficiently familiar with the benefits they can benefit from different insurance products. Compared to the countries in the environment, we belong to a group of those where the culture of insurance is at an extremely low level, which is why it is necessary to work faster to raise the level of knowledge of insurance in the Serbian population, i.e. education of the population on the needs and benefits of insurance and life and property, because if we are passing insurance laws, and not increasing the number of those who are ensuring I am afraid that in the present conditions it is not enough. The proposed new insurance law has certainly gone a step forward in many segments, and it is certain that it will solve the problems in the sector and contribute to making insurance companies more active on the financial market in Serbia. When it comes to payment law, internet technologies have fully opened the door to the concept of electronic economy and transformation in the economic sphere and the transition to digital economy will not be complete unless the form of money is changed. The proposal for a payment law introduces two new but yet recognizable payment institutes and these are payment institutions and electronic money institutions. The Law on Payments, which was adopted since 2002, does not recognise these institutions and therefore there is a need to adopt a new legal solution that would, in a systematic and comprehensive way, regulate this area of payment transport, which is already widely used and developed in the world. An important legal solution foresees that exclusively banks and companies for PTT services can deal with payment transactions and in Serbia the biggest growth is currently being recorded by electronic banking and payment cards. However, the development of modern technologies and the creation of new payment services led to increased competition in the market for payment services and the emergence of new participants, as well as the need for these users, i.e. users of these services, to be adequately protected. One of the most important strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia is to join the EU. Given that one of the four basic pillars on which EU law rests on freedom of movement of capital, the need arises for the domestic legal framework in the area of payment transport to be aligned with the relevant EU regulation. The proposal for this law will certainly allow for greater competition in payment, better quality and more diverse payment services, and citizens could do all the jobs they have done in banks so far through payment service providers, except housing loans and hand-savings. It is good that the NBS will establish a single supervision of the operations of all participants in the payment services market, thus ensuring security for all users of these services that have so far used these services at their own risk. The bill certainly corresponds to the most important factors in the development of a particular way of payment, which are speed, convenience and security. The reason for the adoption of amendments to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is also to comply with EU rules, i.e. directives in the field of payment services and electronic money. The existing legal solution in this area since 2009 and since new types of economic operators, payment institutions, electronic money institutions have been introduced into legislation, it was necessary to extend the concept of taxpayers in the Law on the Prevention of Money and Financing of Terrorism to these entities, given the possible involvement of these entities in both domestic and foreign payment flows. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services is an extremely important bill. It is important for all financial services users who, by the way, take a significant place in the economy of our country and in the lives of our citizens. The amendments and additions to the law allow citizens to carry out certain more reliable, safer and peaceful tasks, as is done in all EU civilised countries. The proposal for this law also provides for the extension of the protection of the use of financial services to entrepreneurs and farmers who will have the same rights as all other natural persons, i.e. consumers. Additional protection of users of financial services has also been provided, as the provider of the security funds will be recognised as being the beneficiary of the financial service with all possible protection instruments. The process of protecting users towards greater financial institutions has also been improved, which is particularly welcomed, for our work with users and for more efficient and effective protection of financial services users, which means that deadlines are shortened, which is what you have been talking about, to provide a response from the financial institution to a user who, in addition, will not cost anything. The main objectives that will be achieved by the proposed legislative solutions are, above all, the improvement and modernisation of payment traffic both in the country and abroad, increased protection of payment service users, increased competition on the market for payment services by introducing payment institutions and electronic money institutions and the establishment of uniform supervision of the NBS over the operations of all participants in the payment market. The proposed set of laws, the Law on Insurance, Payments, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, the Proposal for amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, the Proposal for Laws and amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, all these laws create a comprehensive reliable and modern system of payment. These are extremely good bill proposals because of everything you've explained to us, from what I've tried, even though not as professionally as you in my discussion to present, the SPS parliamentary group in voting day will support the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15693	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15694	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think that the urgent procedure under which this set of laws, on a proposal from the NBS, came into the process unacceptable for us from the DS because there was not enough time to properly consider all these proposals that stand on the agenda of the National Assembly today, and you are as a former MP aware of how important it is for the National Assembly to discuss these topics properly. You had a public debate, some proposals lasted two years, you won a lot of the stakeholders' proposals, all that was good, and then when the regular procedure was supposed to be referred to the National Assembly, it was missing. I want to inform you that we as a parliamentary group have proposed a law on the restriction of bank interest several months ago and is each time rejected by the ruling majority, and we believe that it is far more important for citizens than some other debates are. If this legislative proposal could not be accepted for discussion in a regular procedure, there is no reason why these suggestions should not be accepted in such a procedure in the National Assembly. What's symptomatic of your response to why it's an emergency procedure, that's what you're saying is that it's because the Insurance Act was supposed to be passed by the end of the year for detachment. I think he could have singled out that law and that he was going through an emergency procedure, and that the rest go to the beginning of next year, given that much of the application goes next year and next years and that he simply has enough time to get all the institutions that are participants in the preparation process. I think there are a lot of good changes when it comes to the Insurance Act and there is no dilemma that there is one improved and user protection and clearer procedure regarding the organisations themselves involved in this business. But we are left with one dilemma, when you have now singled out in light of the emergency procedure of the Insurance Act, why is it possible without any explanation for companies dealing with basic vehicle insurance to raise the price by 45%? Why is agreement given if we know that there is no basis for this in real economic terms, especially when it comes to the number of traffic accidents and that the application of the new Law has led to certain improvements? There is no explanation, and the villains can say that it was done to stimulate the placement of these same societies in the state records of value and that is something that has never been explained and never the public has been informed why it was given consent to the increase in these amounts. You yourself have well noticed that citizens cannot pay insurance, and in particular cannot pay for additional insurance, life insurance, cannot pay if they do not receive salaries and pensions or have a reduction in salaries and pensions, which happened to Serbian citizens last month. As far as the Payment Services Act is concerned, I also think that one serious shift has been made and that in that sense there are not many objections, except perhaps some indiscriminateness. In that sense, I also filed an amendment. For example, with a single account register, it could be defined precisely for legal entities that are the data the public registry is running, not to say at one point that other data prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia will also run the register. I don't think it's good, if we have eight points that clearly define what the register is doing, it wasn't disputed to have eight more, but to leave this point unspeakable, I don't think it's appropriate and it could have been better done. There are other such points in the bill's proposals, but there was simply not enough time for them to be properly analysed and the right amendments to be submitted. Maybe some MPs did. I hope you will seriously consider these suggestions. The foreign exchange law, you yourself said it concerns domestic payment institutions dealing with services, such as the "Pepal" business, and if it is possible for a foreign paying institution, it is normal for them to do so domestically. I think that in this sense it could have been a more comprehensive change of this law, that it fully liberalises both natural persons and legal persons, because it was done in the countries of the region, in Croatia five years before accession and had no negative consequences. The National Bank's representative on the board said it would be launched in the spring in talks on it, and I think it could have already been done and I think it would have been an additional little effort that would allow much better conditions for many citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have problems in their lives and in their lives because of the administrative barriers that exist. I think it's the protection of citizens, when it comes to banking services and the services of insurance companies, in the first day, not banks and insurance companies. In that sense, I believe that as MPs, we should have had more time just to consider all those positions in these laws that concern citizens right now. We cannot have much confidence in the promoter because the loss of NBS in 2013 amounted to over 44 billion and you explained the reasons why the accounting loss is being managed. But you didn't say the right reason. I understand that you can't say that the NBS is guilty of poor fiscal policy and that it's your fault that the Serbian government makes budget gaps that need to be filled in in some other way. For these reasons, for reasons that the NBS and some other positions had in a not good enough way defended, when it comes to citizens, above all I mean an increase in the price of basic vehicle insurance services, we in the DS cannot support this set of laws. We hope that these laws will be corrected by amendments to the Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15695	Thank you. The word has a lady governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15696	Accepting Mr Djurisic's remarks that I have prematurely informed that the reasons for one part of the job that "Pepal" cannot work is not on the part of the regulatory and the side of the NBS, but on the side of the technical indisposed "Pepal", I would now like to say in the same way in time one that is key, illustrative. I'll only take one, I won't talk about all the reasons we're in. Monetary policy has been given too much importance back ten and over, many thought, even an academic profession, that monetary policy can do much or almost all by itself. No, he can't, and neither can the NBS, whatever measures he's bringing. Everything that happens in fiscal policy comes up through monetary policy. So, any lack of money and any greater spending than earning ultimately is overrun by monetary policy, to its extent, to its reaction called or large inflation, high inflation, which is the indirect taxation of citizens or turns out to be a negative financial result of a monetary institution that, she didn't want, must solve the problems resulting from greater spending than earning this or any government. It's not just a theory. In the same way that the NBS will have to solve, picturesquely and simply for the citizens shown, that polluted water that will flow from large and prominent banking systems after the stress tests done by the European Central Bank, where things are not as great as they look, because there are no dams that protect the Republic of Serbia and our financial system from the problems that come from the queen banks, in the same way there is no time dam between the previous governments and this NBS, nor is there a barrier that can preserve the balances of the NBS from an inheritance account, which is called borrowing without the possibility of returning benefits or spending, and without real sources of income. This means that more than a ten-year account has arrived at the bill, where it is eager to change the structure of production, that the change of owners, but through the change of owners as privatisation, has changed the structure that will produce more, make money, enable the standard of living, although this privatisation has been done fairly uncritically, where it was sold, and that no new business facilities have been created from this money at the same time, even though the National Bank of Serbia, which I represent in continuity as one of the governors, which is now doing that function, if the National Bank of Serbia in 2006 and 2007, and almost in 2008, has had huge inflows from the sale of enterprises, from the sale of capital, which has been measured by hundreds, and when "Mobi 063" is over a billion, close to a billion and a flow of foreign funds, the National Bank of Serbia then, due to the sale of the government, which has been able to make it more money in terms, the money, the money that the money, the money, the money that has been paid by the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money So, the government's decision to sell companies, to spend that money, not to put it into capital investments, and to create national investment plans that were named, and not really some investment plans, created problems for the People's Bank that had lost, which had to pay for the withdrawal of that money, although at that time before the financial crisis, that same National Bank, and also the Government with it earned huge money from foreign reserves in international capital markets. For example, in the year when the National Bank of Serbia showed a loss of 375m euros, it had income, believe it or not, of 400m euros from foreign reserves. Do you know how many foreign reserves there are today that are over 10 billion euros? In tens of thousands, these revenues are measured, because the best-quality banks and financial organisations where they can place the funds have zero interest, and some of them even negative. So they pay to keep your money. Now someone may not consider it, and someone must take into account the changed circumstances of what was a golden rain at some time, when there was no expectation of what the 2008 crisis had brought. Not this party or that party, not me as governor or you as an MP, we all now live together a reality that we have to talk about by looking at the overall picture. I'll give you just one detail from that picture, because it's about today's debate. I have, in front of me, a law confirming the 2009 loan agreement for the development of the private and financial sector between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In June, it was published in "The Official Messenger", number 42, the name of the loan, the numerical name, was 7651yf and amounted to 34m and 900m euros, close to 35m euros, which says -- a loan for the development of the private and financial sectors. Where did that money go? That's what you'll ask as MPs. I asked at the time - is it possible in one legal project, which makes us a financial commitment, so we have a debt that you and I are paying back today together and all citizens of Serbia, where there are no defined ways where this money will be invested and what will be realised, but it is in the light of the law that aims to achieve this debt. I will read to you what was on page 27 of the laws we have entrusted the state of Serbia with 35m euros: The achievement of the planned objectives will be realised through the creation and application of a privatisation strategy for the remaining financial institutions that are mostly owned by the borrower. The borrower is the state of Serbia. So in 2009, the state of Serbia committed itself to reducing participation, I quote, to reduce the participation of borrowers in the financial sector from the current ones, I'm talking about 2009, 17.29% to 10% in 2010, when it comes to banks, and to reducing participation from the current, then, in 2009, 34% to 30% in 2010, when it comes to insurance companies. Dear MP Ivan, we took a 35m-euro loan to reduce the state's participation from 17.29% to 10% in 2010 in banks and to reduce participation from current, then 34% to 30% in 2010 for insurance companies. Why? Are Serbs less good managers in banks, insurance companies or less able to be efficient managers in companies or did the state appear as someone I suspected would be able to run the financial sector? You're talking about the priority of the Law on interest limits in financial institutions and banks, introducing yourself to people who want to protect citizens. I protect them as much as you do, but in the system of inherited liabilities and in the market economy, the National Bank cannot limit interest rates to banks, you cannot view citizens as underprivileged, but through the protection of users we allow them to be familiar with all the risks they take and take. That's why we've given amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, but you can't blame yourself, me, or the Government, or anyone that's just one of the credits that comes in at the collection today, 325m euros have been paid by the state of Serbia on interest alone. 100 million in this year we have more interest-based expenses than the previous year. I must express my courage to this government, which is going into reform processes and not tasking the next governments, but putting them on trial for its mandate, taking unpopular, urgent and difficult measures, risking its own mandates, which are in its second place, in relation to the necessary and urgent measures for the citizens. In that sense, I only have one appeal, let's look at a wide picture of the accounts that we have to, as the responsible factors of the state, accept and reconcile. Let's not kill people's hopes that it can't get any better. I'm bringing this truth out so that we know how hard we have to take all of it. I want to bring out the hope that you can come out of this together with you, who are not blinded... I am a member of the National Bank of Serbia and we currently have an independent position, but you do not treat me as a governor who has a political past and you represent the good characteristics of the law. I've been doing it all along as an MP for whatever law I was talking about. It is a hope for this Serbia that difficult, inherited problems can be solved together. As one of my esteemed colleagues says, people need the truth, but they kill themselves for the truth. People need hope even more because they hope to live. We are here because of you young people and those who are sitting here, who I admire for the loyalty of institutions, for commitment to work, for the work you do, for us to wake up this hope in people, that the problems are temporary, that we must not increase them, that the problems encountered must be brought publicly to the extent that he is inherited, but not to complain about what happened. They're jumping skeletons at the National Bank where I sit every day. It's a picture of what kind of problems I'm facing. Excuse me, have you ever read a text anywhere about pointing my finger at the previous ones that have left me to close down with the associates of four banks in which the state took part? I don't expect the contemporaries to praise me for that, but I know that my task was to prevent the abuse of those shortcuts that led to the robbery of the state budget and citizens indirectly, by creating banks and pouring money into them that could not be productively used. I've never seen the name of the bank or who its founder is, but I did sit down with all those who offered solutions, as I sat down and as we took everything before we took away the license from one insurance company. If I'm proud of anything, I'm proud of my impartiality and my desire to talk to all those who can help the stability of the financial system. That's what we do. I also talked to those they said were unworthy to talk to. And with those they said had no good intentions, but I received them in the National Bank building, where every conversation is heard, because that's the history we create. I don't have any personal friends in the banking business, I don't have any secrets, I don't have any hidden interests in any of these organizations, and that's why it wasn't easy for me to know the names of the number of people employed in these banks, but that these banks are the rotten apples that have to be removed from the financial system. Says someone - have a historical score, lowest inflation. Few people looking at low inflation because it's like a plumber – while the system in the house works, everything's fine, as soon as the pipe breaks, who's to blame? Call the plumber. It's the role of the National Bank. As long as everything works, there's no problem. But the historical role that the National Bank and its leadership are going to be talking about one day is now that it has prevented the state from exhausting, misusing, associated groups of persons deployed into a couple of banks. I will be perfectly calm when the judicial system ends the proceedings with judicial decisions and when the evidence of what we have unequivocally established ends with a found guiltyness and a judicial confiscation of illegally acquired property. A consistent principle in the Payment System Act, which we want to implement, which is that every citizen through the Single Account Register, we will gladly accept the precision of eight plus eight proposals that you have, if necessary, but there must always be something left, because life always goes ahead of us as controllers. You know, there's always a step ahead of us the one we control. That's why we have to leave ourselves the opportunity to jump in, control of that element that's about to appear. But in the same way, as I have very openly and clearly signed the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia that the application of an agreement in which the US state controls the tax accounts and all the accounts of its citizens, and through authorised persons, will sign themselves to accept that the bank can control them, in the name of both the US State and the Bank's secret law, because when you agree, that is possible, in the same way, I will support any activity of the tax authorities of the Serbian State to determine the flows and movements of citizens who earn and the state should pay for its belonging part. That's why the account register will be classified, but it will allow the state to accept its part of the law required to be given. Why would I always do that? Because this state and the National Bank of Serbia, as part of it, although an independent institution, does everything that citizens have to do to avoid paying taxes. The fact that you have increased revenue in the budget, in one good part, is the result of the translation of gray flows into regular ones. And each of us advocates making money, doing it, but, as the old man said, God's king's king. And I will say and repeat, I am truly impressed by the statement I heard from a high statesman – God may forgive you, but, they say, the Israeli state will not. And I say -- God can forgive us through prayer, but we need to do everything as a state so that no one lives parasiticly at the expense of those who can't avoid tax, they can't pay counselors for such a thing, they can't pay someone else who can afford protection. I'm sure, dear Mr. Ivan, that we stand up for the same state of Serbia, and each one in its own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15697	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. Before I give my word, I guess based on the replica, colleague Ivan Jovanovic, just to read the notice of the extension of today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15698	I will personally accept your answer and comparison with some past period, but I believe that the same goes for today, when we have an increase in public debt by over six billion and that it is simply impossible, if these funds are used only to repay old debts, that this debt is increasing. But the comparison you've made, wanting to highlight the importance of a consistent fiscal and monetary policy, I accept, especially when you said that these problems have been emerging since 2006, when, I remind you, the Democratic Party was not in power and we haven't dealt with these great privatisations that are so much talked about. Another thing that is important in fiscal and monetary policy that should be a component of development and not just maintenance, that is one developed country, that would be, but, let's say, an example of electronic payments, where the state requires the user to carry a copy of the payment, the state authority requires a copy of the payment, does not recognise an electronic payment, even though we brought the Trade Act three or four years ago, and that is a problem that you cannot solve. But the government doesn't do anything to solve these problems, to facilitate their functioning, and that's exactly what I was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15699	The word has the governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15700	Although we are not in charge directly of the problem you're talking about, about electronic payments, I will gladly, along with my colleagues, engage to provide this networking in the best possible way. It's those obstacles that bother citizens when one of them has to prove the same in a lot of places. We'll do anything. But there's one thing I need to do here again. If, at one point, pensions and salaries are increased, in 2006 they pay without a lot of ground, on one-time income, pensions in 2008, you do not solve the problem by paying off your pension in December. That's already one level of debt. In January, there is a new pension payment that increases debt, and you do not have a new production that generates income. So, it's not that - I once paid a bigger rent, but all 12 months, and next year, and next year, that hole is going to get bigger. That's the problem. So, it's simple mathematics, and I don't want to remind myself of that mathematics that I've been talking about in my own time, when the basis for funding political parties has increased, when I'm being questioned as an opposition MP by the basic attitudes of mathematics – expand the base and reduce the percentage, it's clear that there will be greater separations. Now, at the moment Mrs. Komic admits it to me and puts it in the amendment that I have rightly claimed it, it becomes more important and otherwise witnessed the tolerance of Mrs. Gordana Komic, with whom I have worked for many years, than the argument that I made at the time. That's all I'm talking about. So I didn't say who was in power in 2006 or 2008. I've always stuck to the facts, and that's why I'm telling you, and right now, it's very important that we understand that this increased level of the spending scale, for which there was no choice, has been increasing for years. The public debt must be increased because it gradually increases by paying not only interest. We made sure that those interest rates were the lowest possible in these conditions. By reducing inflation and macroeconomic stability, we have saved the country close to 200m euros in this year alone in nine months by lowering those interest rates, but you simply have to understand when you say – I will decide to give my child a bigger allowance this month because it is a one-time cost, but if you increase his allowance continuously and you do not have a salary, it is clear that you will have to borrow somewhere and that debt level is constantly growing. It is up to us to find a way to increase the basics of production, production, taxes and wages that we all have to solve together with the support and non-dispute of what is fundamental logic in life. I'd like you to show me, I'm not a government attorney, where the government is in charge, what did something take, some new debt, a new loan like this I was talking about developing the private and financial sector, and didn't she account for where the money was spent? I ask them to submit such an account, as I write to the Prime Minister before Dacic, and now to Mr Vukic that I am below the inflation objective I received as a task in 2008. You're asking for an account to be made if the money went where it didn't belong. Only when we settle the bills, but also when we have an idea of this that the problem found is not easy, nor can it be cut, you can't cut people's salaries, you can't lift people's one-time rights that have been defined by law, but to agree, my dear colleagues, laws are passed by people, laws are proposed by people, laws are changed by people. The most important thing is that we don't change the logic of what's good and what's useful for this country. If you and I agree on that, if I understand that we have agreed, we have already done a lot for Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15701	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. A colleague, Ivan Jovanovic, I presume. Here you go. I could close this circle of replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15702	I think that new employment is a new cost, and when you say it all the time, it means the last government, the one from 2012 to 2014 and this one now and simply, if the debt with domestic financial institutions is increased, then it doesn't mean anything if it's reduced by foreign financial institutions. It's simple, it's one spirit that exists and it's there and its increase is high.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15703	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The word is made by the MP of the National Assembly, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to congratulate the governor of the NBS and its associates for not departing from those principles when they refer to this law to the adoption of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, from those principles that were in the draft of the law itself and that the public debate on the set of these laws has actually only improved and in no way ruined the matter that is regulated by these laws. This is because I can only assume what pressure the NBS was under when writing these draft laws because many powerful financial institutions do not support the adoption of such a law. There were stories here from my colleagues that the National Assembly was a flow water heater, that the National Assembly was a flow water heater when these laws were passed. They say it's a flow water heater and the RS government, and now the NBS. That's pretty insulting to the Parliament and to me as a MP of the people. The National Assembly was a flow water heater for the adoption of laws, unfortunately not of the RS government, but of some others, which dealt with various speculative actions, secreted the taxes of the Republic of Serbia, amounted to foreign currency from the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly has given these powers in a very strange way. Today it is before us and between us and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act. Should I say what kind of foreign exchange law we had in 2009, 2010, 2011, and now we're changing it? Am I to say that according to the law voted by some fellow MPs of the former regime, and now here, goods were allowed to, say, be imported from Germany to Serbia and to pay from Serbia, for example, to Sejela, that the entry price for RS was far higher than the price used when paying the goods? I can say that at that time the state was damaged in two ways, unlike the price achieved in the tax paradise and the foreign exchange reserves that were illegally exported from the RS. Whose congregation was the flow water heater then? Or, it was enough that the company located in Serbia, anywhere in the world, established a company, a daughter company, that the daughter of the firm would issue a bill for importing goods and services, that foreign reserves should be taken out of the country and that goods or services should never be carried out and the money provided under the law should never be returned to Serbia. Am I to say that in Serbia it is written as a cost and tax deduction and that again someone in the tax haven has earned an extra profit? Now those who took part in all this are telling us that the National Assembly is a flow boiler, and they have been ordered private laws in this building. These changes and additions, as well as previous ones directed by the RS government, are no longer possible. The stories about insurance and regulation of the area are one result that has finally had to happen in Serbia. Some things had to finally be regulated and to stop hunting in the murky and statusal position of the insurance companies, their activities, as well as the supervision of the Central Bank to which it was entrusted. Unfortunately, because of the lack of this regulation, we already have that certain insurance companies have lost their license and the purpose of this law is that, through enhanced supervision by the Central Bank, such things are not happening because they always ask the question of whether it is an insurance company, whether it is a bank, costs, or losses, someone has to pay, and most often it is the state, and most often it is those who contracted insurance or deposited funds with banks. The draft law regulates the activity of insurance more precisely, more comprehensively and modernly, not to mention that for the first time in this area, the rules and directives that apply to the EU are fully regulated. Also, a very interesting problem regarding life insurance and non-life insurance is finally resolved by this law. So many times, this separation provision has been postponed because insurance companies had an excuse not to apply the law and thus forced the state and the National Assembly to meet them. Because it was obviously more favourable for them to make mandatory funds of the reserve, transfer from one type of insurance, and thus iron their liquidity to the National Bank, which controls this activity. That this is necessary in Serbia, that it is also consistent with practice in developed European countries, tells us the example of recent elemental disasters. You can imagine that an insurance company that has no separate assets, which has no separate deposits, due to major elemental disasters, is obliged to pay large amounts of damages that have occurred and do so from the funds that have been raised by the collection of life insurance. This would damage those who invest in their families and their offspring. Finally, a certain security solution has been found, whether completely or in part, but with clearly defined rules within the framework of the law. Further, provisions related to the establishment of business and corporate management of insurance, resecuritisation companies, as well as criteria for granting permits and consent to the National Bank of Serbia have been improved. So far, insurance and reinsurance in most cases have been a method of abuse in insurance business. The protection of the rights of interest of insurance, insurance users and third-party damaged persons has been maximised, and the obligation to inform insurance contractors on all issues related to the exercise of insurance rights has been made. Insurance canals are regulated more precisely, and are given up to now's solutions requiring insurance interventions to be performed exclusively on the basis of a working relationship because the same has been shown to be impossible in practice, and has also been a source of gray economy and black labour. The legal provisions of economic character have been fully innovative, in such a way that capital and its adequateness, technical reserves, i.e. the investment activity of the insurance company are more regulated. This is expected to provide better insolvency in the insurance activity, but is given a greater incentive to develop the financial market. Not to say that NBS supervision is also regulated by this law and supervision of insurance companies, insurance contractors, insurance users and third-party damaged persons, and activity control, in line with new provisions, will raise its speed and efficiency. We bring this law and that part of our administration to be more effective and thus to control and control insurance companies are far more effective. The law on payment services is something that was also necessary to pass, because the existing law, which was passed tens of years ago, some are even from the time of the SRJ, and some even from the time of the SFRY, time and technical opportunities have passed. It is already a good part that some of the things provided for by this law and are happening on the market, however, without legal regulation, so it was also necessary to introduce order into this matter. The biggest problem with carrying out payment is that it is currently very expensive, that it is left to banks and that the possibility of controlling payment and payment obligations borne by payers is very low. You can enter any more serious bank operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia today, you will see endless lines and not only rows, but also a very expensive service paid for and by natural persons but, unfortunately, business. If you want your order to be faster in the payment system or in the clearing system, it is charged additionally. This creates additional costs, reduces the competitiveness of the domestic economy that participates in the payment system and makes business more difficult, and thus also the ultimate price of a service provided by a particular person involved in the activity. This law will also be able to pay electronically, both for individuals who carry out their activities, legal persons, and for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, in a cheaper, faster and more effective way, meet their needs within the payment system. If the solution is to wait for hours to pay the Infostana or the electricity bill, of course there is a certain dissatisfaction, of course there are certain additional costs, so that by setting up this area, in fact, one of the conditions that exists on the ground is fully regulated and brought into the legal framework. These are the promotion of the protectors of payment service users, especially natural persons and entrepreneurs and agricultural owners, who have so far been limited in scope and character. The fourth law I would like to speak of is the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. It was tried earlier, in the period until 2012, to finally put one self-will in the legal framework of a banking sector and that was one will that affected all forms of life as one cancer, which sucked capital from both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those who were engaged in certain activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It failed in that first step to protect everyone as customers of financial services, but at least then we put the most unprotected ones under the protection of the law. You know, when the domestic banking system in Serbia was destroyed, when one particular monopoly was created on the financial market and when the cartels of banks that dictated outside all economic conditions on the market were created, then we came to the point that the citizens began to be poor. That law has given certain results. Is that enough? We don't think so. Therefore, we will also support this law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. It is obvious that the central bank at the time could not fully resist the pressure of the banking system and that some of the provisions of the law were such that they allowed only in the other area to continue what was done in the entire financial system. And the courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia gave the final word because in order to create a contractual relationship between the bank (as a lender) and a citizen (as a borrower) must be applied to the legal bond that provides for clear contract provisions. However, there was an obvious need to amend this law and supplement it. The first part that, unfortunately, is one relapse of the past, and I'd like to ask the governor if any of the banks have so far completed a misdemeanor procedure for violating the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services? As far as I know, it's not. I'd like to make a mistake. That is why a provision is now being introduced that the Central Bank, if it determines irregularities, can also impose criminal sanctions. For the first time in the law, provisions are also applied to protect this law by entrepreneurs and agricultural holdings that are registered. That's certainly good, but I'd like to ask the governor and her associates to consider expanding that list. I'll explain why. Because whenever you settle one area by law and limit abuse in that area, whoever has committed abuse will look at it in every way in the part where it is not regulated by law. He will look at and not only to keep the positions he has in that part, but also to compensate for the extra profits he has made in that part that is now regulated by law. I've been thinking for a long time about whether you should take all the legal faces that exist, micro, small, medium, large. Today's economic situation is such that medium and large enterprises are literally able to protect themselves when it comes to banks, because they have a large amount of capital, because they are large payers and because every bank on the market is struggling for them, to give them more favourable conditions to keep them with them when it comes to loans. They also have their own legal service, which also makes sure that the owner or authorised person of such a economic operator does not make any mistake. When it comes to micro and small enterprises, they are the most vulnerable in this area. Often there are several workers, one director and most often pay the person who keeps their books and thus exists on the market. They are still heavily exposed to abuses. Why do I say that? There is another reason, and the courts have taken their stand on the protection of users of financial services, with only being at the choice of the owner or responsible person of a micro or small company whether to initiate a court case before the competent court and to return the excess funds to the bank to him or not. You have to agree that today, on a small market like this and a small selection of banks that are ready to be correct, it's very difficult. That's why I think it might be a good idea to reconsider whether or not to include economic operators in the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. We stand at your disposal at any time if you reach one such conclusion. In any case, all these laws far better regulate matter than it has ever been before and show that Serbia is a legal state, that it has a regulated economic system and that we have laws that regulate the financial market, which is a clear message to all those who want to invest in Serbia that their capital is safe and depends exclusively on their ability to manage that capital, not on some other factors. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Progressive Party's MP club, will support the bill in Dan's vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15705	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and eight minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work and the first speaker is MP Dragan Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15707	Dear Chairman, Mrs Tabakovic, we have before us a set of laws proposed by the National Bank of Serbia and this is a unique opportunity for us to simply and simply raise some questions from the work of the NBS on this tide. What I would refer to is primarily the Insurance Act. The insurance law is something that is most important to me even in this entire set, which is our agenda, because first of all the insurance market is something that has a significant potential for growth in Serbia. The total premium of all insurance companies operating in Serbia in the first quarter of 2014 was 15.7 billion dinars, i.e. 136m euros, representing an increase of 3.2% compared to the same period of the previous year. What's important and important about the law, which is to separate life insurance and non-life insurance. I'm an interesting percentage, and because of the viewers watching TV broadcasts, it should be said that we have non-life insurance with a total share of 77%, the rest is on life insurance. What I would especially like to underline, as you said in your opening statement, and it is clear that you have sat here for many years as a MP, it is a responsibility. Now that we're talking about responsibility, I'd like to ask you to invest your authority in a specific area, which is agriculture and the insurance of agricultural products. That's interesting, we're witnessing this year, and in previous years, the great damage that farmers and general farmers have had due to all these elementary disasters. What's said more or less, it's just that between five and ten percent of agricultural crops in general are secured. Why is that? I come from Topola from the fruit area and unfortunately we have a problem with people who are insured for example in 2010 fruit, today being tried with insurance companies to collect their insurance. Why is that? Here's a simple example, and I think that you can significantly help, which is when, for example, the city and when you have damage from the city and you have an apple agricultural product, where you have two strokes from the city and the appraisers come from the insurance house and they say that the percentage of the damage is 25% or 30%, and after five days, that apple rots and wastes and it's 100 percent damage for the manufacturer. What I want in particular to underline, is it possible, an esteemed governor, and I think this is an example only in Serbia, that the estimated damages on agricultural crops are from the same insurance house that needs to pay for the damage. Is it possible to change there, because if we want to simply stimulate farmers to respect insurance, then that story has to change and there has to be something called an independent expert that will be able to report whether that damage to agricultural crops is 25 or 30 or 100%? Then in such a way as to charge it, because in every other variant you have that peasant is harmful and that you have long-term court proceedings to prove that material damage. Unfortunately, it's taking so long, and because of these bad examples, we unfortunately have that insurance in agriculture doesn't exceed 10%. Also when we talk about insurance, you're on your own, and my coworker mentioned that we have some 28 insurance houses in Serbia, 21 are in foreign hands, to say that seven domestics are one in liquidation, which is such insurance. You mentioned one insurance policy yourself, although you didn't name it, who was denied a work license, and I'm mentioning it now, it's such insurance from Kragujevac. I'd like to ask you in a few sentences later when you're out of line, say something about that technical reserve, which is why such insurance lost its work license, which unfortunately left more than 400 workers from the central part of the forest without a job they were working on in this insurance business. What I would especially ask you, which is like the governor of the NBS, when we talk about the control mechanism of the Central National Bank compared to the business banks. We are witnessing, and here in the previous year this year 2014 is at an end, that one number of business banks has failed. Now, when we talk about the controls themselves and what the NBS could do about it, we have statements from your predecessor, Mr. Shoskovic, who says – little what. I would not agree with that, because of course the NBS cannot determine whether one Vojvodine Development Bank or AIK Bank, or the Universal Bank will give Ziki credit and not Peri. So, of course it's not supposed to get into that, but what I'm just worried about is whether we can go to the NBS in that aspect of handcuffing that you show up here in front of the MPs and say, "Give us changes to the law to untie those hands." Do these business banks reserve money and do your controllers see that money being booked and that money being placed, let me say, suspicious clients, and can this be properly solved? I have also seen in criminal provisions in these laws, that more significant penalties are now foreseen for people who, in this way, will break the law, but on the other hand somehow we do not have in these reports clear what the NBS has taken against, above all, the responsible persons in these business banks except that their work license has been taken away, but all of this has finally been transferred to the budget and to taxpayers, because, according to unofficial data, a significant sum has gone to the recovery of the damages resulting from the termination of the work of these banks. The one I'm particularly interested in and what I'd like to hear from you later, you mentioned two basic NBS functions. One is inflation, and that is something that we will always support your work so far. The second question is about the course of the dinar. People who pay rents or people who have loans are worried about what's happening today with the course. Please, just explain to us how far this will go and whether there is a possibility that we can already have a predictable rate of dinar compared to the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15708	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15709	The New Party MPs will not vote for the first two draft laws because sending them to parliament for three, four days before the session to decide on these laws, material of 500 and some members, thousands and 100 pages, is a continuation of the degradation of this parliament. Of course the NBS did not start that degradation, it began much earlier, but the NBS also joined the ranks of those who are treating this parliament as one MP from the ruling party as a flow water heater, and there are even worse comparisons. I'm surprised to my colleagues who are going into this risk of discussing this law without even reading it, because it's absolutely impossible to seriously read a thousand and a hundred pages in three days regardless of the special abilities one of his colleagues might have. That's one big risk. It is unusual to place such a set of laws on the congregation agenda without serious public debate. The material we received says that the public debate was carried out on draft laws rather than on the bill. Secondly, what kind of public debate is this if MPs are not invited to this public debate? We have addressed 513 amendments to the first two laws, to point 1 and point 2, and I think we will have enough opportunity to say more in detail how we feel about these laws through the amendment debate. I think that by not voting and putting so many amendments, we are actually saving, or trying to save the honor and reputation of this institution. The Serbian Parliament is responsible for controlling the work of the NBS rather than vice versa. If that's what the Constitution says, then we should all act like those who run the National Bank as well as MPs who can't just accept any material, even if it's the best in the world, but without being able to get to know them. I am pleased that the Governor is satisfied with the work of the Bank and with her personal and glad that she is probably satisfied with her closest associates and part of the employees of the National Bank, but I do not think that that is enough, because the National Bank, as well as this Parliament, as well as other institutions, exists not only for itself but for the citizens of Serbia, and they are hardly able to share the satisfaction that you have justifiably or unjustly. I'm sure you've already got those questions, but let me just say it again. A course that's so hard for anyone to accept your words calming tension. Everyone is nervous about the course in Serbia, I know that the National Bank of Serbia does not have the basic task of controlling the course, but interventions of nearly two billion euros in both directions, according to the media, are clearly evidence that the Bank is trying to control the course and is failing to do so. The 40m-euro loss story is a fact and your explanation of why it happened is not convincing. You didn't answer why 40% of the car insurance was expensive without any excuse, unless some lobby insisted on that happening, and if that's true, which it is, then it's a collapsing with this that you said that these laws were a fruit of domestic intelligence, patriotism and that no one on the outside, let alone any lobby could affect it. The citizens of Serbia have not received a good answer from either you or from previous governors as to the loans indexed in the Swiss francs. The question is the same to explain, I think it's a good opportunity today, stories and some call it the fact of salaries, privileges and employment in the NBS, and I finally think it's a very important question why the IMF decided to postpone its decision on the arrangement with Serbia? It was scheduled to be on the board on December 23rd, postponed for the start of January. I'm reading it again from newspapers where people from the IMF are quoted, so I'd like to say that if you have any better information than I do to share it with the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15710	Mr. Arsic, I don't see him mentioning the party at all. Veroljub Arsic, from the place: How is it not? And the congregation. No, no. Veroljub Arsic, from the post: I will be brief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me repeat. This assembly meeting is not a flow water heater or citizens of some others, nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I remember a time when the Assembly really was. I remember the time when the congregation adopted the agenda with a law that was not in the procedure in the congregation. Should I say who was then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? My previous speaker. We passed laws, put them on the agenda, which were physically not in the congregation building. At the time, the Assembly was a flow water heater, especially because there was no television transmission and Serbian citizens did not know whose flow water heaters were MPs, who supported the government. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15712	Do you want the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15713	It would be very interesting to find out who the Prime Minister was when these laws came, that they were on the agenda without being physically in parliament? It would be nice for the previous speaker to say what the laws were, when it was happening, in what session? Well, since I'm the previous speaker, and it seems to me that by his great mistake, he thought it might have been me. Of course there were bad examples. I did not say that this is the first bad example, of course the previous parliamentary majority did, and that is no excuse at all, and having a bad Rules of Procedure is not an excuse to say – so it was brought by some other parties. Two and a half years, three years, so I guess there's at least two writers who know how to write a new Rules of Procedure. I'm sure there are more. Therefore, there is no reason to hide about it in any way. That's not what I said about the flow water heater, that's what he said, it seems to me, the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority at the board's session. I think that this is a good definition, could have been worse, could have been a definition that would have even better defined the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority that is wrong, where the legislative authority is placed in a subordinate position and led to the fact that we are supposed to fear the executive authorities, that in no parliamentaryism, nor in Serbia can there be an example. Any reminder of the past, if anyone thinks of me is my pleasure, I am absolutely proud of everything I have had the honor of participating in my political past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15714	The word is Governor Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15715	Dear Mr. Zivkovic, on behalf of some of our old parliamentary days, in the old building of the Assembly when we laid the foundations of the multi-party system, I will only have a few answers, although it is not a day for asking parliamentary questions but a debate under the laws we have proposed. We delivered the bill to the National Assembly on December 5th, and we are discussing it today, not one night or day to read 1,000 pages, and it is not about the laws that appeared from one place and from nowhere. The bill has been prepared in several stages, discussed since April of the month. This proposal was delivered specifically before 18 May, i.e. in June, and as a final proposal, not as a secret, meaning it was re-enacted, available to all professional associations, it was a draft law on the site, and I assume that you make this difference knowing the procedure, that as long as the Government as someone who is not the Proposer does not declare a bill that some other legislator does not deliver to the Assembly, it cannot be called otherwise than the draft, because even though we are the promoters of this law we do not take the right to be the first and last to judge and decide. From my parliamentary experience, I did get the speed to read quickly and many times we had the proposals of the most important law, for example on the budget, to consider them for a night or a day, and that never contributed to the quality, but I just have to say that it's not the case with this law, not only has there been about a dozen days in which he could have been read, as well as the others, the Law on Payment Services that is very significant, remained short and followed by these laws that we are talking about, and in the ordinary procedure we would have only 15 days. I'm not saying 50% of the time is more, i.e. Those five days compared to almost 10, insignificant, but I suppose you've had enough time to get through the explanations, how we old MPs read the laws, familiarize you with its essence, and to have, as a man who has a history and a past you're proud of as Prime Minister, enough communication and contacts in all groups, so people who have been able to provide you with warnings, opinions, amendments that we can discuss here. It's just, we weren't lazy, at least I'm the one who respects this home, I'm proud of it, and it's my pleasure to sit here with you, at least it was my reason not to respect you enough and leave you enough time, because there's no secret that's never known sooner or later, and the law can never be a secret. The answer to Mr. Jovanovic and you is that it is simply not appropriate for me to answer questions here, or the particular house dealing with insurance affairs, and which has been warned in all ways that what happened to her at the end of the regular procedure, or that we are talking about that bank control has enough mechanisms to see problems happening directly and indirectly in banks, but that the National Bank is not all the time in every bank and in every place, which does not mean that it can immediately spot the problem. But the problem can be seen. The National Bank of Serbia needs no more authority than it has. We have enough authority, we're promoting control mechanisms so that no repeats of the cases that have been repeated to the extent that this depends on us as regulators and controllers. So don't expect me to tell you specifically about it. I'm glad you understand that we're not the creators of the value of the course, but we're someone who, by his own measures and by his billions and six interventions on the side of the sale and 200 on the side of the purchase, is far below a billion and five hundred, so you're a man of learning, rounding around a billion and five hundred net interventions on two billion is not appropriate for a man who understands trade perfectly. Second, to appeal to the media. If you have a website of the National Bank, behind which we stand, providing data and wanting to improve communication, because that's how we gain trust in citizens, because to keep inflation under control, to keep it anchored, that means whether it is believed that whoever is fighting that inflation is fighting, one part of the measures that are not too large, because we have a significant amount of flows in this country Eurosed, so the monetary policy and the reference rate are one non-powerful instrument, so let me say, we also resort to this non-conventional measures of interventions on the foreign market, making sure that the benefits of stability are greater than it is, believe me, very difficult when we spend from foreign reserves, to intervene and to keep that stability in some, to say, controlled borders. Trust what the website says, because it's reliable data, and the media determine whether it's going to write about us and why, it's likely that their readers will judge, whether they're telling the truth about how responsible or irresponsible the National Bank is. He's got our faults. Do you know which one? If a National Bank is placed in the authority of the administration and puts it on the National Bank website when a three-year order for sports games of workers in a public procedure is ordered by the inert. The National Bank is not the authority of the administration, and when I ask myself why the National Bank was placed as the managing authority on the site through each and every public tender, the Public Procurement Administration has asked for statistical reasons that we put ourselves not in the others, as the law says, but in the authority of the administration. Of course it's changed, I'm not gonna say we're perfect. Mistakes happen but they have no material consequences. We are very aware of the circumstances in which we live and work and look to contribute to what they are called – the reform efforts of all of us to live better in this Serbia. In that sense, always open to questions, always open to advice, for criticism that we don't judge by well-intentioned or malicious, but you can't make arguments, or reliable figures to appreciate good or bad if they stand on the NBS site, and someone deliberately publishes them to a different one. It's cheaper to go to the NBS site than to read some media when it comes to our job. What I want to conclude with is that the IMF did not delay the session, you carefully followed the presentations of those who were owned to speak of it, we did not say at any moment when, but at the beginning of the year, because it was one institution that had to agree on free terms and people from our constitution, Switzerland, to which we belong, but also the obligations of all those who did not even say that the agreement would be signed in December, it would be signed. It is indisputable that we are alive and well, except for God, what people do, should be reliable. That arrangement will be signed. We're going to go out here with the Ministry of Finance with another set of laws that should introduce greater order and discipline in the business of the financial sector. There's gonna be a chance we'll see each other again. But I can't say that one date has been moved because it's not true. I don't expect it to be January either, because there is an obligation to pass some of the laws we don't have and when we do it, and we will do it in January, after our holidays, I expect this arrangement to be signed because there are no problems that bring it into question, within the most recent period, and not further than February. I am openly telling you, as the budget is done in agreement with these excellent controllers, and not to the employers, in the same way as the first quarter will be controlled in terms of all the items and transactions done by the NBS, we act and act as if that arrangement has already been adopted, not because we expect a single euro or dollar from the IMF because we have high foreign reserves, but because this arrangement gives us security from international investors who here invest not only in real business, in portfolio investments, in greenfield investments, but also in financing securities of value as something we have to deal with as a problem. We need an agreement with the IMF as evidence of the credible policy we are conducting. She's completely transparent of you, publicly. There's no information that's hidden from you. There's no date that's hidden from you. There is no possible way for MPs to be presented as a result of the controls, I say, as far as possible without jeopardising the business of financial institutions. But be assured that the competent authorities are doing each and every one of them in their own domain their own business. What I missed out on my colleague Jovanovic when he was talking about the application and the need for the citizen to bring back one and the same confirmation to someone, and that's the past, because we signed an agreement with the Government on electronic data exchange, where we are trying to bring all these administrative procedures into each other's hands within the state's authorities, to be with the least spending and money and time on citizens, but also their energy, which should be put into operation by some new jobs. I'm sorry I've been so long. I've been a little reminded of our old days from the '90s.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15716	The right to replica has first Mr. Veroljub Arsic, so Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15717	Mr President, I am very sorry that it calls out to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the moment no MP is in the hall, and when we adopted the agenda with the law, which the MPs did not have in their hands. I can't remember exactly the session, it's been 11 or 12 years, about that, but I remember very well, although many presidents of the assembly have changed during that period, that then the president of the assembly was Natasa Micic. Natasa Micic was the president of the assembly when we had two Zorans as president. One, tragically injured, late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and the other was Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Knowing how much Zoran Djindjic respected the role of the National Assembly and the MPs, I am absolutely sure that it happened during the second government's term. I am also very glad that my fellow MP has seen what one bad Rules of Procedure means and that he is probably sorry that she chose him as prime minister as the parliamentary majority who did not allow MPs to talk about foreign amendments, the parliamentary majority that banned the parliamentary club from submitting more than one amendment to a member of the law, the parliamentary majority that had been so short of time, which was scheduled to discuss the amendments, shortened even shorter. Of course, I am also absolutely sure that he is sorry that during his time as prime minister, transfers of the National Assembly were not allowed, because perhaps his party would have had a better result in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15718	National MP Zoran Babic, after calling him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15719	I can understand and not only understand, but I also support the diversity in thinking, the diversity in attitudes, that's the basis of democracy, and that's the way to the best solution. I think the difference in thought and diversity in political attitudes and divisions is the value of every society, including the Serbian society. What I can't understand, but I can forgive, as I forgave a few days ago when this political difference turned into personal hatred and when on social networks that few followers of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, colleagues of Zoran Zivkovic, called for Zoran Babić to put a plastic bag on his head without even getting an apology, or even foreordaining from such attitudes and such tweets that appeared, which are scandalous, which are against any human principles or principles, but I can forgive. What I can't even understand, I can't even forgive, which is when this political hatred is poured into personal hatred, and personal hatred in hatred of institutions, in hatred of the state, and the Serbian Parliament is one of the fundamentals, one of the foundations, one of the pillars of our society. When on the same Administrative Board, on my mention of this coin invented by a colleague sitting in front of Mr. Zivkovic, not me, showing it as a bad example, Mr. Zivkovic went further, so he called the Assembly something flowing, which is in the bathroom, not a water heater. It's not perfume anyway. It's not something we use for hygiene anyway. Let the citizens of Serbia assess what it is, let the citizens of Serbia assess the value of the one who is in the Assembly, who is on the citizens of the Assembly, and here sits the citizens of the Assembly, not just 250, here are the citizens who sent us to this assembly. For this reason, due to the respect of the Assembly, here is how Mr. Zivkovic views Serbian citizens as something in the bathroom. It's flowy, and it's not a water heater. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15720	I ask the Members of Parliament to return to the agenda. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. I'll give you my word, Mr. Zivkovic, but I'm simply warning you that we're out of the agenda now. Please, you asked for a replica of the governor's exhibit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15721	First, I've been chosen by the Rules of Procedure who has nothing to do with this Rules of Procedure which are now being applied. The transfers were not possible only during the state of emergency, which was 40 days total in office. You can check anything else. The governor was an MP at the time, so she remembers that she could have spoken for a long time. Now she remembers it. As for the question of flow boiler, bag, I really don't see the point of explaining and saving someone who has one avaistic fear of the unknown, and in this case from social networks, or Twitter. I'm responsible for someone's writing on social networks... My warrant is called "Zoran directly". I don't think there's any need to explain why it's called that. Everything that's written on that warrant, it's all my fault. What other people write, it's called freedom. I know it's the same unknown thing, but you have to ask the one who wrote it for your bag, whether it's one way or another, whether it's aesthetic initiatives or not. Anyway, it has nothing to do with me. It has absolutely nothing to do with me. Finally, the governor said, she taught me how to handle it when something came up fast from 1,100 pages, but that's manageable. It's not a procedure. Thank you for asking, of course you and I both know we're dealing with these situations, we're old wolves, and there's no doubt about it, but that's not the procedure for doing anything. You told me it wasn't a day for questions. When the day for questions is here, there is no one from the government, so now I'm going to use it to ask you if there is still a New Belgrade Asamakum blockade?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15722	The word has the governor of the National Bank, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15723	I'll only comment on two things. You taught me how to handle it. I am an MP from 1992, December 1993, with an interruption from 2001 to 2006. You taught me how to manage, and the skill is to read quickly. There are books that talk about it. That's my skill I'm proud of. You don't have to use it now that we've been delivering the laws, because they've been public in the draft, to be read since June, i.e. May of the month. If you were bothered by the fact that it says “nart, ” and it does not say “proposal, ” it is now your perfection, under quotes. However, to say that this is freedom, I thank you for the unique opportunity to conclude this debate with a single sentence. Freedom on any network, the freedom of any man is not unlimited. It is limited by the freedom of another man, the one who feels threatened, at this point or someone else whom my or your freedom threatens. Don't ever get it out of your mind, like many of us who have always spoken to the opposition – you bring laws, Rules of Procedure and other rules when you're in power as if you're an opposition. If you'd listened to that, we wouldn't have to talk about this today. I'm sorry I took the right to talk about broader subjects. I really won't anymore, but the subject of freedom and the skill of mastering deserved it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15724	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15725	Mr. Chairman, like any normal and decent man, believing man, I have fear only of the Lord God and of no one or of anything else, and especially of social networks or such virtual things. I respect everyone's opinion. I don't think we're here for a miss or a mystery, but I believe that one who could honor our aesthetic reasons here would win that, too. I thank my colleagues and colleagues who say – very easily. These tweets made me very happy. Because it is free for people to express themselves in Serbia, because there is no censorship, because there is no freedom, because there is no freedom, or there is no freedom, for sure that such a thing would be lifted or moved. What I expected and what I would do, when someone is in my environment, even in a virtual environment, I wouldn't support it if they did some things that were against the law, against the rights, against humanity, in the end, against the life of someone else, as much as they didn't love him or were on the other side. The fence, I haven't heard a conviction. I didn't hear it today, which means there's total freedom in Serbia both in the media and on social networks, and I didn't think I'd report it, because we want to believe freedom of expression, but what I want to know is that there are people in this room, among our colleagues, who are seeing bags on heads and mine, and also your dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15726	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15727	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the People's Bank, Mr. Chairman, I hope you will be as patient with me on the agenda as you are with others. Given that in the Law of Planning and Construction, you did not allow me to talk about wild construction. At first I should say as a witness one time that Mr. Arsic was wrong. It is not true that there are no MPs in this room who cannot testify that we have received the laws on the second day since the beginning of the session and the adoption of the agenda. Since I was then an MP of the National Assembly since 2004, however, in the second parliamentary group, unlike Mr Arsic, I can confirm his allegations. His allegations are true, that we were not in the same parliamentary group, and I must say that it was one cheerful assembly, that at one point we counted over 300 MPs. So, the election of MPs was such a Mr. Chairman, I can testify, not only are TV broadcasts abolished, but let's say on the Administrative Board you're an MP, today you are, tomorrow you're not, so they get you back, so we have 300 MPs, so we don't know who they should vote for, who they aren't, but I know who was in the Electoral Commission. My fellow farmer knows that, too. But I think he better talk about it, since it's a little bit about nepotism. As far as these laws are concerned, I will support the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services because for the first time he recognizes entrepreneurs and farmers, and farmers especially the type of my colleague who at this time is obstructing the governor in her work and in order to listen to my exposure. For the first time, therefore, this law recognises agricultural owners and entrepreneurs as beneficiaries of financial services, so the users of the lease loan, if, of course, the need is indicated. As for the Insurance Act, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, as someone who belonged to a population who this year had very much damage, and since only the two of us, the previous farmer, the winemaker and I are in this Assembly, I have to say something more about the damage we suffered this year. The total damage was 1.7 billion, the most energy suffered, it seems to me 470 million, and after energy, agriculture suffered the most. So some 228 million farmers suffered from a natural flood disaster. So in the last five years, two years have been dry and one year has been with floods, so thanks to these elemental disasters, our agricultural production has suffered serious damage and after 20 years of uninterrupted farming when it has endured the greatest burden of social, economic, and even military pressure on our country. Of course, I expected from 2000 to return to farmers what they sacrificed from 1990 to 2000, aware of the unprecedented sanctions that part of the international community applied to our country. Of these 228 million damages is somewhere in 49 municipalities as I recall, although other municipalities have suffered some damage due to large rainfall and work. So, as if dear God got mad at us, so we shoot at rockets, city clouds, or because of insufficient number of rockets, or dear God got mad at us, and then we rocket him, he gives us back the ice, so that agriculture is extremely sensitive to the damages that occur due to the elemental disasters, and with that in connection, I would like the state to participate a little bit more. She is now involved in ensuring agricultural crops, but I would like her to participate in all the damages, including droughts and, through reassurance with the large houses of the states, a little bit more isolated and to ensure a set of agricultural production on Serbia's territory. I think that would bring us far more significant resources than we would set aside for insurance and reinsurance. As for the other parts of the Insurance Act, I'll say that I like that it's separate life from life insurance, but after this tsunami that happened to us Mr. President in 2000, by 2012, including that tsunami, and the government of my fellow farmer. So after that tsunami, I don't know what we can provide for life. I think that life insurance in terms of workers and peasants after 2000 to 2012, that life insurance is kind of growing into life insurance. In Serbia, it was almost after the tsunami that hit us, which is about 20 people, of which 10 politicians and 10 tycoons who swallowed living people, jobs, work, bread, after that tsunami in Serbia were like on Mars. You had living conditions, but there was no life. So, I support the Insurance Act, but I'm afraid after these, we won't have anything to ensure, especially with ordinary people, naked about workers and peasants, I don't know what we'll be able to secure. So, I would like the government and the state, regardless of what we are now in a very delicate situation when we have to repay the debts and interest that have reached, when it is necessary to save extremely, to find the means to protect our largest factory under the clear sky through insurance and reinsurance and, of course, to raise agricultural production, food industries and energy, to make more money and more money for both the Serbian budget and the Serbian citizens, and to finance the insurance and reassurance of agricultural crops and agricultural cultures through the budget, which my colleague Jovanovic of Topola also spoke of extensively and his exposure. As for the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism, I think it is also important for Serbia, as it can be financed by various groups on sensitive parts of Serbia's territory. We are still, unfortunately, treated by certain centers of power like the rest of the SFRY. We are extremely sensitive to all forms of terrorism and attempts to break that remnant of SFRY. That's what Serbia is called today. With that in mind, I will support any law that can prevent and warn anything, since today terrorism as a form, as a phenomenon, without financial injections and transactions cannot survive in any part of the territory, and we are a state that can and can testify that on our part of the territory a particular organization, which even the United States has declared a terrorist organization, and when suddenly the power, money, certain centres of power, have become politicians, and our state and political leadership has become in a certain way and declared terrorist, and so we have turned things into a foundation. That's why I support that law, that segment in this package. To get back to security and reassurance. I would like our people to have as much property as possible and as much money and work as possible to secure, but I fear that after this tsunami, it is now a Christmas post, that our people, thanks to this tsunami, will, thanks to the former garments of the Serbian government, which certainly includes my fellow farmer, because he led the Government of the Republic of Serbia during that one period, which, for all praise, is that we farmers once had a Prime Minister. So in that part, I fear that this post will be extended, that because of the consequences they have left, this post will last a little longer, not because of the church and the faith, but that the politicians and politicians who have left this evil to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15728	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15729	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you were quite liberal in today's afternoon session. I'm not going to go on with it, but if I had just entered the O.R. I'd have realized that we had a budget, that everything was fine in this country, and now in a relaxed atmosphere we're choosing a mystery among MPs. I don't want to continue on this subject, I think it's a very serious debate, about the very serious points of the agenda. The Governor sent us five laws as an emergency procedure. It's a pile of over 1,000 pages of paper. There was no public hearing, no public debate in which MPs could participate. The committees were practically discussing this set of laws this morning, and you contributed to the Governor by supporting the government's practice to enter almost one hundred percent of the law through an emergency procedure. To date, that percentage was 97% of the law by emergency procedure. You've contributed with this set to getting close to that percentage of 100%, and I think, given your long-standing parliamentary career as you say you've been going through various governments, you shouldn't have allowed yourself to act in a very irresponsible way as well. I won't be gentle to you today, although I won't be able to get out of the topic, for the most part for a reason, but I will have understanding, given what you have just complained to us that party comrades these days are pulling you out of the yellow press and I won't be joining it, and that's why I'm going to be more toleranceous and I'm only going to talk about the laws. Namely, you sent us into the insurance policy procedure. You said you found a very bad situation in the National Bank and you found an even worse Insurance Act. Well, in no word, Mrs Tabakovic, you have not said the difference between your bill and the one you found. You couldn't, because there's no fundamental difference. Why aren't they here? Because both the law has been done according to the model of European legislation and the directive in that area on the one hand and on the other, it is true that in those two, three years there have been some changes that you have spoken about yourself in this area. But unfortunately, ordinary citizens, to whom you have often called today, will have no special benefit from this law or from others. Why? Because you are looking to be in line with EU directives, not seeing how this will reflect on citizens of Serbia who have given you confidence, become an MP afterwards and a governor. I'd like to ask the chairman, if it's possible if the miss selection is complete to allow me to speak. So will this law be settled... The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15730	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15731	... the question of the monopolies of insurance organisations facing citizens on a daily basis. For example, you get a payment card for utility services, we live in the same city, you get a public company bill that charges utility services, say an insurance bill, and it's not even a special item, but if you happen to notice it and you tell the clerk to shut it off, then it's off. We don't have to be deaf to it. There is no member who destroys that monopoly. On the contrary, you have established a new monopoly for existing insurance organisations, Mrs Tabakovic. Feel free to hear what I'm about to tell you. From the day of adoption of this law, you have insurance organisations that will be able to deal with life insurance or non-life insurance, newly established, newly registered insurance organisations and you have organizations that have received a state monopoly that can continue to deal with both types of insurance. I think it is deeply unconstitutional, that it is the inequality of legal entities, Mrs Tabakovic, on the market, and I think that if a question arises before the Constitutional Court, one such provision will be annulled. Besides, my predecessor may even wish that the real parody mentioned the right thing, he mentioned the insurance of agricultural producers from the risk of damage, floods, frost, etc. Do you know that the world has overcome these insurance models, that the modern world, if you're talking about insurance against these risks, has found new models called financial derivatives or time derivatives that cover the risks of less or more rainfall over a certain year? That doesn't solve the Insurance Act. It solves the Charter of Values and Exchanges Act, but the government has done nothing about it. That's what I'm saying because Serbia is countries where the risk of poor agricultural production, droughts, floods can endanger the entire economy, GDP. You spoke, Mrs Tabakovic, very inspired of, quote, European legal assets and you said, quote, that you were consistent in your views. You didn't, Mrs. Tabakovic. Now you've mentioned, since 1992 you've been an MP. That you were consistent and that you represented your views, you know what attitudes were represented by the SRS and Mr. Seselj and who are now represented. You have defended those views for 17 years of your term, and now you are defending other attitudes, and in that sense I find your consistency in some way questionable. On the other hand, there are a lot of things that are legally controversial in this Insurance Act. I'll find in this pile of paper a member of the 24th insurance company's insurance company. I said that deep down, in my opinion, is controversial when it comes to constitutionality. In Article 92. The insurance law says that insurance representation jobs can also be dealt with by a person who is not in a working relationship, but the problem is what you provide as an explanation – abuse. You say there have been a lot of abuses, and is there a Serbian government to enforce laws or to withdraw from any abuse? Abuse could be in the fact that someone was doing an insurance representation job in a way that he was in the supplemental business and that he wasn't paying for insurance. Wouldn't it be normal if it were sanctioned, but you're giving it a chance to do business and someone who isn't in a working relationship? That's why you're making unfair competition for those who might be doing this job, just that job and that would be a basic profession. You give people a minimum chance of finding their satisfaction in this business. Article 84 of page 35 is about informing the insurance company and you are saying that they are obliged to meet, so it is listed which positions under the contract, but it is not, Mrs Tabakovic, the Governor, in the right way worked out. We in this area in this Assembly have had much better laws that have done so in a much more precise way, that they have defined the font of a letter which must be printed and the font of a letter which must be printed in general terms. I don't need to tell you what general terms are, you know that well. These are part of the contract to which some of the last members of the contract are called and thus includes them in the contract. Where did you predict the general conditions, how does the party get to know them? Not that you didn't predict, but you said that with the general terms of the party, the insurance company would only be aware if he asked. Let me ask you, is it normal for someone who concludes the contract to get his terms, and general terms are only part of the contract at his request? I think it's also contrary to the legal certainty of the citizens. You were talking about some bill on payment systems. In the meantime, I was out of the O.R., and I don't know what this is about. Was that the name of the law, so it was changed in the meantime, or was it a mistake? So it's not the law on legal systems, it's the law on payment. Right? So it contains part of the pay system. All right, maybe that's why Mrs. Tabakovic was talking. When it comes to the protection of users of financial services, unfortunately, I don't have much time, but when I came here this morning, I came in for a rush with a cab driver and we talked about what we were going to discuss today. The cab driver is a graduate lawyer, but he's driving a cab because there's no job. He said – please ask the Governor lady: “What does keeping the current account mean? “ Have you here protected the users from the loose banks that swallow their customers, who take their souls, drive them into debt slavery? He said - I don't have a homokinetic joint when I open an account, I don't keep a bank homokinetic joint, I open an account. He still said, it's impossible for me to have 100 dinars, which I've invested in a bank account, every day I have less and less. He says - I don't ask to have more, but it's impossible that on the next 100 dinars I've invested I have 97, or 96, and if he doesn't use it for a long time he won't have anything. So, banks eat bills, they eat the money of the citizens they invested there. You have no answer, Madam Governor, for these questions. That's not how you protected the citizens. Unfortunately, they're unprotected. Especially tomorrow, when we talk about execution procedures, what problems citizens face, those who have not paid their bills because their salaries are less and their prices are higher every day. You didn't protect the citizens here. You said this law wasn't just about the EU, it was about the citizens. But it seems to me that it was more or less because of our alignment with European legislation, and much less because of the citizens of Serbia. Of course, I'd have a lot to ask you past the agenda. When will the drop of the dinar be stopped and thus the growing payments for the loan of the people who entered the loans? Fortunately, they did not enter those cheap apartments that the Prime Minister promised 350 or how many euros, but these existing loans will not be able to repay, as the value of the dinars is getting smaller every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15732	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15733	I'm done. One more sentence. I'd be pleased if we had an emergency session to discuss the course of the dinars, not the laws that could come regularly afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15734	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Governor, when, after your inspirational and true opening session, we listen for five hours in the debate of MPs and ruling coalitions and oppositions and when you have no fundamental objection to a set of five large system, reform laws, then what you have done is quite clear and quality. An emergency procedure, of course, is an excuse in this case, because an emergency procedure is about the fact that at this point we don't have a different way of thinking and a different understanding of this problem. During today's debate, we could hear everything except the questions that concerned the functioning and future functioning of these laws. We could pollute and hear about the inflationary expectations of some MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These inflationary expectations are the discretionary right of each of us, each individual, but what we haven't heard and what we can hear in relevant circles is the fact that the National Bank of Serbia has done in the last two years what has never been done in history. The macroeconomic parameter, the inflation rate, is the lowest in Serbia's history. If we do understand why we have come to a situation where we are currently economically, then it is certainly a accumulated huge economic problem that has been blowing for decades and for which there is no easy solution. The system laws we are discussing today are actually proposals from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. These are modern and completely different laws, primarily in the area of payment services and insurance. It is practically about changes that define in a different way the legal basis, which contributes to better and different functions in the areas they regulate. Serbia as a country, primarily in the area of finance and financial laws, monetary policy and macroeconomic parameters, is certainly a country that cannot be raised by the best laws. They are due to the fact that for too long these laws have been made to preserve a monopoly position that is maintained in continuity. These laws are trying to change that. In terms of global competition, when every segment of business is extremely important, the new law on payment services and insurance certainly contributes to improving the competitive position of the Serbian state. This will affect both the economy and the natural persons, the population sector, because the degree of these services will be cheaper. Of course, in your opening statement, you say that there has been no significant change in this sphere in Serbia in the last ten years. It's undeniable. In the world in the last ten years, you also say, there has been a complete revolution in the area of payment services and payment traffic. It will be quite depressing if after ten years of financial derivatives on the financial market we continue to apply the principles and rules that we need to apply. Today, if we do not adopt these legal proposals, we are coming into a situation to preserve the institutions that exist, with which no one is currently satisfied, to preserve a monopoly position that will continue to function in the banking sector, in the postal sector, but it will certainly prevent dozens of new institutions, new businesses, new types of services that we will be able to offer after the adoption of this set of laws. The last law we change was passed in 2002. The law practically does not contain any of the modern key payment service parameters. It prevents the functioning of the economy and thus makes its functioning terribly difficult. That's why we don't have to argue with other MPs. Simply, we need to compare the analysis and the statistics that exist. If you look at countries in the environment and look primarily at the EU, our indicators in the area of payment services insurance are disastrously bad. It is undeniable that European trends must be followed and, of course, European directives must be adopted and there is nothing disputed, because it does not mean that by adopting these directives you send a different political message, but that you accept a mechanism of functioning that undisputedly gives significant economic results. The key advantage of the law that defines payment services is primarily liberalisation and should be said openly. So until today, as long as this law is still in force, until it changes by emergency procedure, you actually have only the banking sector and the PTT services sector, which are essentially traffic and payment services. That's inadmissible. You have a completely single oligohol that works on that market and this is the law that's trying to change it. Of course, that won't be easy. The law on payment services is just systemically because it introduces a brand new character and new institutions, primarily institutions, payment institutions and electronic money. We can discuss details, every member of the law, and if you look at it, and you have read that law although they say little time, it is quite enough to understand the strength and essence of this law, from Articles 76 to 106, practically one after the other, the members of the law that are completely new so far are not applied in Serbian economic theory, practice, which fully define a different liberal concept of payment services. From Articles 106 to 140, the same applies to electronic money. If that's not the point and if it's not reform laws and it's not a message that defines system change, then what it is. If you look at these 70 members, these 70 members define the future in payment services, but at the same time the whole law clearly defines the rules, principles, licensing and control that arises from the function of the National Bank that is strengthened. It is not negligible when you say it – yes, these laws are in line with EU directives, with good practice of what is best at this point in the area of payment services. In applying and explaining how this law works, we have enough time, i.e. until October 2015, when a clear message is to be provided, clear knowledge to all interested people to fully open the financial sector in this part and that a monopoly position is fully liberalised with the opening of fully new, clearly defined players on the financial market that will clearly respect the principles and rules. When we talk about the Insurance Act, this is where it's respected that life insurance and non-life insurance are not separated after this law. Perhaps the reason for the urgent procedure was precisely because it was necessary to make a decision to end this trend in 31.12.2014, i.e. that insurance companies that exist on the market continue to deal with both life insurance and non-life insurance at the same time. It's nothing controversial. If you look at European directives, if you look at the functioning, the decision-making method, decisions made on the basis of such and similar principles, you will see that the EU has in the same way solved, but there is no denying that these companies that are now on the market in their functioning must function in a perfectly reasonable manner and that life insurance and non-life insurance can be separated at any moment. It's their legal obligation. It is clear to all that this legal obligation must be passed at some point and it is undeniable that it will be passed, but the legislators of this law clearly tell you that the Insurance Act does not go to full market liberalisation. Lawmakers want to preserve and give an opportunity to insurance companies to retain, or create more favourable conditions for the undisputed large entry of foreign companies into the area of insurance. We might as well take the heat off. I honestly think liberalisation is always much better when it's before it's later, but we have to leave the possibility for people who propose such laws, and everything in accordance with European directives to have their discretionary right. Fifteen hundred members of the law, 1,000 pages, certainly is something that is the most extensive law and the most extensive law package that has come into this congregation. If there are no more significant objections about functioning, we will hear in the debate on amendments, it is no problem at all, but what is imposed on me as an attitude is that the reform laws, such as this one is, directly or indirectly, too silently or quietly agreeing to it, have the full support of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are politically different, we will have different political views, different understanding of macroeconomic parameters, but it is certainly a pleasure today whenever we were in the debate to discuss a set of laws that are reform and what not to say – one in a series of laws that this Government, the National Bank, must bring to Serbia to look different. If the better conditions were in operation, if they were better macroeconomic parameters, these laws might look different, but in the conditions in which we currently find ourselves who are an infinitely difficult SNS will certainly vote on all five laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15736	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković, governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15737	I wouldn't have extended this debate if it wasn't for the untrues. The previous speaker, I can't even say no to the shortest time he's faced to read the law, not thousands of pages, 126 pages has the Insurance Act and 110 pages has the Payment Services Act, but it's not right for a law that has 126 pages to try to deceive the public. Although I want to understand you, justifying myself a shorter time than the 5th, when you got to the 14th debate, where you say that unconstitutional demarcation is, that is, retaining in the existing status of societies dealing with life insurance and non-life insurance. It is fully in line with Articles 18 and 19 of the Directive, which is number 83 in 2002, which is also translated into our Articles 24, 25 and 26. Proposal for a law on insurance. The Directive explicitly allows existing companies carrying out jobs and life insurance and non-life insurance, but with separate asset management as provided for to continue to operate in that regime. Excuse me, did you read the Constitution? Do you know, and what about the EU's legal regulations on which we are on the path of competition, which is also made possible by equality, i.e. we can talk about law-subsistence. You are questioning compliance with the applicable directives that give us the right to continue in the established regime to operate insurance companies. You are calling for constitutional rights and competition. I'm just wondering if some of them came to Serbia today, so today they saw that there's a cost to maintain the current account, or that they're also getting insurance expenses with their payment. I'm not going to speculate on who's been busy, so now he's got an ex-post mind, but I'm not going to let you say there's no obligation in the law to deal with general or any conditions the insurance contractor has committed to meeting the insurance user. Excuse me, open up and read article 82 to 84 where it says it's planned to deliver insurance conditions. It may not say in a language way how you imagined it to be a word layout, but I really don't know which one of us respects this home and whether we respect it formally or essentially, by an emergency procedure or by informing that the law does not stand for what it stands for. Just one more remark, Article 105, in the way in which insurance representation operations can be performed. The insurance services of the insurance company, insurance representatives and legal entities referred to in Article 98 may, on the basis of this law, be on the basis of employment, and you speak as if we were to abolish it, meaning, on the basis of employment or outside of employment, in accordance with the law to carry out certain persons. My colleague Veseninović is not correct towards the citizens, not me. The other questions don't deserve a comment. I'm fifty-five years old, I spend, and I'm mature enough to know that no one can harm a man as much as he does himself. I'm doing everything I can to do the best, and I have the results behind me, not any grades, especially those who want to say that my closest friends are working on my head. Each of us can only work on his own head by doing the right thing or making the truth or the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15738	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I am looking for a word. ) Mr. Veselinovicu, I've now taken over the presidency so I haven't listened to your speech and I don't have the opportunity to assess whether you have a replica. (Janko Vesenović, from town: She spoke to me personally. I repeat again that I have not listened to your speech and cannot judge whether you have the right to reply. (Janko Veselinović, from town: This does not justify you. ) (National Ambassador Aleksandar Markovic throws out of place. Mr. Markovic, you don't have to throw. (Janko Veselinović, from town: She mentioned my name. ) Yes, but not in a negative context. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Yes in a negative context. ) If you estimate it that way, I know Mrs Tabakovic, I'm sure she's not in a negative context. Here, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15739	So, I don't want to, Mrs. Tabakovic, compete with your radical dictionary that you used in your own way, but when it comes to what you said and the facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15740	Mr. Veselinović, thank you, you can't go on like that. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15741	I would like to express one satisfaction that you are here today and that we are talking about five laws, especially about the Insurance Act, which is of great importance for the financial market, i.e. the capital market and its development in our country. What should be the main objective of this law as well as other legal solutions should be to liberalise the additional overall market, especially the financial market in our country, which the SDPS in any case strongly supports. We are facing the very poor development of the insurance market with premiums and portfolios of insurance companies of some 530m euros, given the comparative analysis with our environment, with countries in the region, it is very little and we believe that this law will be crucial that this portfolio is increased, increased and that the share of insurance companies and share of premiums in the gross domestic product is increased by some 1.5% now at some level of 4% or 5%, which is defined in developed countries and, of course, in countries in the region that have developed the insurance market, i.e. the developed financial market. What definitely shows the situation in our country's insurance market is that only 14% to 15% of insurance is life insurance this rest is non-life insurance, which is again in a reverse way with good practices of foreign and developed countries of the market economy, so we can notice that the development of life insurance and insurance markets in our country is simply defined by the development of the economy itself and what we, in any case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament, want to do, and this is a developed market economy with all developed instruments, not only the financial market, but also by the system of combined courts, because you know very well that in the economy everything is connected and the labour market and other markets that are needed for one country to have economic growth and to have the level of development needed to name it as a developed country. What will be an advantage and what will definitely be the provisions of this law and show that savings are encouraged even though it is very difficult, although gross domestic product in our country is very low, although the unemployment rate is high. What we need to potential is to save our citizens and in some way achieve the goal of saving, starting with those segments when we're supported, it means that we start saving when we have children, through their schooling, student days, of course during a professional career, so that the fruits and savings can be harvested once we're back to being supported, but that we don't rely on money from a pension fund, because in any case, it needs to be fully open and honest and say that it won't be enough and that in any case it won't be the same as in amounts when we get monthly earnings working in the private or public sector. It is very important to encourage this kind of savings that would relaxely affect the Pension-Invalid Fund that is very burdened on us and which, of course, generator of what we have today, which is a major fiscal deficit that our government wants to reduce to 3% in the next three years. This is a very important aspect, in general, and that will affect macroeconomic stability, but also market development, which will in any case lead to the country being able to develop, that it can attract investors and liberalisation of the market itself should lead to the entry of new players into this market. This way, on behalf of my party and the parliamentary club I belong to, I can appeal to you to at least try to make that market truly liberalised and that we have no more anomalies in this sense in the ownership of the state in the insurance companies because, unfortunately, in the past 20 and a few years, it has not worked and that in this business which is the only business in relation to other businesses, insurance premiums are experiencing a fall. Everything else is growing. Prices on the market are on the rise. Prices on the goods and services market are rising. The only insurance premiums, their prices are falling, and on the other hand we have companies that are inefficient, inefficient and I think that complete one liberalisation and privatisation of these insurance companies is one way that will lead to our insurance and insurance markets being as good as possible, as quality and, of course, in relation to the interests of consumers themselves and insurance consumers and insurance premiums. I think it also needs to be considered that in some way, the state makes such an environment that those who buy insurance premiums, that they are in some way encouraged, that we should think about the next period, and I'm sure that you as someone who knows very well the economy and the business movement and who understands both in the private business and in what needs to be the essence of our development, that in some way the taxpayers release those who buy insurance premiums so that we can run one of those entire streams of strengthening and strengthening the purchase of insurance premiums and strengthening the insurance market in our country so that in some way we can create such an environment that the state can sell its bonds to insurance companies tomorrow and in a cheaper way than that I don't say it worked between 2000 and 2012. In any case, between 2012 and 2014, we could be in debt under much more favourable conditions. We could be in debt in the long run and create one system that would fit and those who, insurance companies, would save, of course, the system that would fit the state, so that it could come to cheap capital in its own country and simply return it to the second term and that money, you talked about it nicely in the previous part of the session, invest in investments, invest in infrastructure, in capital investments, not in consumption as it has been so far. I think you can think about such a one-way trip that would simply give one new energy to start not just the financial market. It is clear to all of us that there is no development in the economy, if there is no developed labour market, if there is no developed market for goods and services, there is no developed financial market and there is no demand for capital, so we need to develop these three markets in order to create a competitive competitive competitive economy, where in different ways we will encourage both private and foreign investors, both individual and large companies, investment funds to invest, buy insurance premiums, buy securities of value and thus start a whole series of activities that will have a positive effect on our economy. What I would very much like to praise in this legal solution when it comes to the Insurance Act is that there will be increased surveillance, that control will be strengthened. When it comes to the banking sector, we have been alarmed enough to do so with insurance companies and I think it is done in time and it is very necessary and that the National Bank should in any case have a very strong control factor so that what happens in previous years and what would cost the citizens of our country, in the end, a lot, so that I am sure that the National Bank has both capacities and capabilities, in particular that it has human resources that can control this system, but in spite of the control that they develop the insurance system and that this portfolio and the 530m-euro premiums in some way in the coming years we increase, double and thus affect the increase in our GDP, bearing in mind that we can't talk about quality social policy in education, culture or social overall development if we don't have an increase in GDP. Just like that, and this is the opportunity to increase GDP and develop this market, we can talk redistribution, I think we'll all agree on that. When we have a little bigger cookie, then we can talk about how we'll argue, how we're going to share that cake, how much we're going to give for social security, how much for social protection, how much for education, how much for science, how much for culture, given that without the development of these segments of our society and these sectors in our society, there's no talking about the general development of our country and its positioning as one of the most underdeveloped countries in this part of Europe. I hope this will be one of the fundamentals of economic development in any case. Our parliamentary group will have five amendments to be discussed, I hope, on Wednesday. They will be directed exclusively at suggestions concerning the liberalisation and definition of markets in the field of work of insurance companies and supervision. We'll have objections regarding a little more State interference in the work of insurance companies. We believe that our country is in such a situation that it and its institutions only need to create an ambience and equal chances that they can all work on the same, on the same basis, that much does not interfere in business processes, because the simple logic and what we had as a result in previous years speaks enough about wherever the state interferes, wherever the state tried to manage we didn't have enough good results. Now let's change this logic, let's change the policy and let those players on the market, who are fully teamed up through this law, who through this law will have clear game rules, be able to function and work in accordance with these rules and thus develop the market for both financial, labour market, commodity market and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15742	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15743	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Chairman, I know you're going to interrupt me a lot during the speech, so here, just to tell you that I am aware of that fact. Mrs. Tabakovic, you are a respected governor and therefore a representative of the institution and the person this Assembly has chosen. You are always a dear guest in the Serbian Parliament and we regret that you are not here more often. I'm not talking about your previous life, it's famous for everyone in your biography, but I'm talking about the fact that as governor of the National Bank, I think that if your obligations allow you to have political circumstances, that you visit us more often in the Serbian Parliament and make certain panels, that you could discuss various topics related to your work, so not just about the laws you're proposing. I hope you see that as a well-intentioned suggestion. I really think that all of us in the Assembly are happy to have you here today, and I can see that the euro is happy, too, because he started jumping when he saw that you were in the assembly today. Otherwise, just because I think you're a lady and a woman of integrity and expertise, I'm surprised when at one point you might have lost your patience and said that MPs are cheating on the public, etc. I don't think that's right for you. You remember the MPs' days and you know it's a very difficult word to say to the MP, especially what you, your position, and your salary depends on what we choose, so you need to take care of who you are and that you are a guest here. I have to tell you that the cost of the current account, since the colleague mentioned it, was one of the topics that could have been in one of the bill's proposals, so it didn't, it existed before. You're absolutely right, but it's absolutely no excuse. We changed the law so that you would be elected governor. You've frozen a party function to be governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15744	Mr. Stefanovic, this is no choice for the governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15745	Here, this is the first break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15746	You know very well what's on the agenda. Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15747	Okay, thank you. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15748	You see you're right. You know in advance you won't be talking about the agenda. That's why you said I'd interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15749	That's not true. This is all about the governor and what she suggested and her work. I guess that's the subject, isn't it? The laws are passed by an emergency procedure. We heard a lot of arguments against it today. I won't repeat myself too much. I am only sorry that you, confirming the necessity and urgency of making these amendments and supplementing the law in the Assembly, have said that it seems to me, if I remember correctly, for two reasons – saving time and saving money. None of these two reasons are contained in regulations that determine the urgency of the procedure in the National Assembly. They can be brought when some of the consequences are irrevocable, and can occur, elemental disasters or any other catastrophes besides your authority. Since none of these facts have occurred, I don't see how you're confirming that you're violating a regulation that determines whether it's an emergency procedure or not. So now you're telling us -- yes, we wanted faster and we're saving money. We don't understand how, or what's faster when we have a few dozen amendments, and the New Party has an even bigger number of amendments. I don't see what's faster, what's cheaper? You're here anyway, so I really don't understand that argument. The insurance law proposed here, as some of my colleagues have said, I don't really see any dramatic difference compared to the law you found when you came into office. I don't see what's different. You didn't bring it up. I think it's an observation that it could potentially be dangerous to our system to confirm that the Constitution did not create a new situation. Why isn't it according to the Constitution? Because under our Constitution, it's impossible for participants in financial transport, insurance companies, insurance organisations, economic operators, anyone, natural persons, legal persons, to be unequal. In this case, they will be unequal because the newly formed organisations will be able to deal with either life insurance or not, and the found state of the current organisation can deal with both. There's inequality. I think the paper that you, for example, provided in the Payment Services Act the possibility of paying through the so-called so-called payment. ‘Pal’. I'm asking you, is the possibility of getting a fee or other money regulated if you don't have an open account abroad, and you don't have a residence or a residence abroad, as it has been repeatedly asked to be done? The answer was, the answer to our traditional Serbian bureaucracy – it was never and we can't do it and now it's not foreseen. Here, deny me if that's not true. I don't understand why this newspaper, for us a newspaper, and otherwise an antique in Europe, wasn't introduced to the end? I think in my essence, the Foreign Exchange Act, for example, said that he, I think not only that law, but also these two previous Laws on the Protection of Payment Service Users and the Payment Services and Insurance Act, have a lot of good parts. We will certainly try to further improve these things through the amendments. However, what's in all of this is why you didn't, although you know that we publicly asked you as governor of the National Bank, supported, and perhaps now you can support, the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, banking services, because we have proposed that you continue to be legally bound by banking interest. That's what you said the market does, and you as governor have nothing to do with getting involved. We asked the Ministry of Finance, absolutely no one ever answered. There are other hidden costs that are transferred to committees, to users of banking services, which banks use massively, bringing Serbian citizens into a slave position today in Serbia, not to mention users of this credit in Switzerland etc. We have proposed that we do what most EU countries have done in the region as well. You didn't even want to talk about it, as a newly found proponent of neoliberal thought. I understand you, you're a party to the right center. I do not understand these left-wings who say – we, the Social Democrats, are in favour of further liberalisation of the banking market. That's ridiculous. If we do not interfere as a state, the citizens of Serbia will work for more and more interest, for new banking charges that are from maintaining the current account, to abnormal interest for an unauthorized minus, to an incredible fee for using an ATM machine, etc. There are a number of items that citizens are constantly paying for. You had a chance through one of these laws to change that, you didn't want to. What did you want to do, dear governor? You say before – when you are in power, you bring laws and Rules of Procedure and everything else as if you were an opposition. I agree. The problem is most people don't see it and don't do it like that. You could teach them that way, too. You say that in Serbia we have one stable banking, fiscal system, monetary policy, and everything that happens around us shows, unfortunately, that is the opposite of that. You were just trying to convince the MPs that everything was fine, that we didn't have inflation. Well, there's no one in Serbia, a respected governor. We're gonna have a deflation, the way it started. There's no one to spend it on. We're introducing an electronic payment, we're introducing "Pepal" in Serbia, two-thirds of the citizens barely survive. You don't see it, I think, enough, no offense, this is nothing personal. You've still increased the number of employees in the NBS by 10%. Is that true? (Jorganka Tabaković, from the place: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15750	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the agenda again. It has nothing to do with these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15751	Instead of correcting the laws of entry that are useful to the citizens, I ask the governor...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15752	It's not a day to ask parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15753	You with that again. You'll have to find that in some political encyclopedia where it exists, Mr. Becic, so I can't speak in questionable form.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15754	You can't go past the agenda asking questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15755	That's completely pointless. You're not getting me out of the track.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15756	I don't want to. I just want you to get back on the agenda and get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15757	All right. I'm just interested, with the questions I asked you, the esteemed governor, you know that we want as a Assembly to protect the integrity and reputation of the NBS and your personal reputation, we want that, but I think it's also useful, since you're here, to answer questions about new employees. You know that information has come up, I believe it's incorrect, you know what I'm talking about, that Mrs. Cultureian's employee is in place... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15758	Mr. Stefanovic, you are now talking to yourself, since your microphone is off. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: This is pointless what you are doing. It's pointless what you do. I interrupted you for ten minutes. Please continue. You have 10 minutes left, if you want to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15759	I didn't want to offend anyone, and I won't repeat the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15760	I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15761	I respect dignity! I ask the representative of this country whom we have chosen, Mr. Becic! Do you understand that? We chose Mrs. Tabakovic, she didn't choose us!
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15762	This is about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15763	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15764	Well, this is how you behave in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15765	You forbid the opposition to speak in question. It's a shame, what you're doing to the opposition all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15766	It's a shame how you behave in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15767	How am I acting? I can't ask Mrs. Governor for her personnel solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15768	I beg you, very well, as I do, you know the Rules of Procedure. You can talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15769	It's a shame. That's why you came to run the session, admit it nicely, because you know the opposition speaks. You have instructions to interrupt us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15770	That's not true. Mr. Stefanovic, you're talking about the agenda, and I won't interrupt you once.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15771	I am responsibly saying that the issue of the governor's function is both on the agenda. I want her to remove her suspicions and attack her institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15772	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15773	I'm trying to get back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15774	Here, you say you're trying. You're admitting yourself that you're not on the agenda. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15775	Dear Governor, I ask you as governor of the NBS to answer those questions I asked, to tell us why there was no possibility of amending the law in the scope, purpose, manner and purpose as we suggested? Explain to us. We are laymen, we are ignorant of it. We're representatives of the citizens as well as the others. We ask you – why is this not possible in Serbia? A very specific question. I know you have the answer. There's nothing offensive about it. I asked you, too, for the functioning of your institution, why are you being attacked in the media? I'm asking from the opposition. You think we control them. That's what I'm interested in. When citizens have such small salaries and have such a hard time living, except for everything we've talked about today, one of the things you have to actually look back on is that. It's not my will, it's your duty. You have to understand that. If you don't understand, you've been an MP for 20 years. If you don't realize that you have to answer to the citizens here, as long as they pay so much interest, what happens to the Swiss...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15776	Ambassador, you don't really understand what's on the agenda. You didn't really understand today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15777	I see you understand, since you've just entered the O.R., so you understand very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15778	I have to follow when I'm not in the O.R., no matter what they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15779	Then you know I talked all the time about bill proposals, all the time, until the end of the sentence, when your vice president interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15780	He's right to interrupt you, since your MP group, like everyone else, is asking us to stick to the Rules of Procedure. You don't really understand what this is about today. I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15781	Okay, thank you. It's important that you understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15782	I know, I read your interviews carefully. You didn't really understand what this was about. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Zoran Babic, has the word. I ask the MPs to wait for one discussion at a time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15783	I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure, with the support of both your and Mr. Bečić's efforts to lead this session to a normal and decent course and to talk about the agenda point, and not about the taxi driver's point, and on top of that, who cares what comes to mind. However, what has particularly burned my ears, with my experience of the MP in three calls, warning and finger raised high, finger alert – be careful how you, governor, address the MPs. Is that a threat, because we chose a folk letter? How would you react, or how would anyone who raised that finger react if I said - be careful how you speak to the governor, because we chose her, not you? But we're not asking the governor how she's going to speak to us with a soft tone. We expect what she's doing. It is for the sake of expertise, experience, knowledge, skill, all that, because of a career that is without any stain, which is why I voted with two hands for Mrs Tabakovic and always in the future. But we're not looking for a soft tone. We're asking him to work like this under the NBS. Warnings, threats, how would you behave on that? Vika in the Assembly, arguing, really those who accused us of building a Cossack Assembly are making it their own political action. Is that why this anxiety is a product of the beginning of the Chinese Prime Minister's summit in Belgrade today, the 16 prime ministers of Central and Southern Europe? All they had previously been able to do on TV, possibly on "Discovery" or on such channels to see, but never to organise in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15784	The 107th article speaks of the duty of the speaker to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The chairman and speaker of parliament have not compromised dignity. We are really trying to focus our discussion on the agenda points that we have today, as well as the rest of the days on the agenda. I didn't want to react to an increased tone towards the governor of the NBS, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, because she is always defending herself with the knowledge of this House, so she doesn't need any of my physical protection, and otherwise the president, who is currently chaired by threats from parliamentary groups and parties to which the previous speaker belongs, so we really don't feel afraid and we don't need to be free from fear with anything. I'm just responding to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You won't be able to replicate. I don't think we've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but if you want to? (No) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15785	Honorable President, Article 27, and with regard to the application of Article 106. Ms. President of the National Assembly, Majo Gojkovic, therefore, before you this session was led by Mr. Arsenović and Mr. Becic. During Mr. Arsenovic's session, there was talk of the election of a mystery in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and 15 to 20 minutes were out of the question. So, quite off topic. At the moment when Mr. Becic took the post of chairman, and at the moment when the MPs were to speak to the opposition, and at the moment when the governor, I would say, in an offensive way, Mr. Becic decided to apply the Rules of Procedure in a different way. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right. Mrs Gojkovic, Madam Chairman, I think you should introduce a uniform approach and a balanced attitude towards MPs of position and opposition. In the words of the opposition's representatives, two representatives of the SNS came forward to replicate and were allowed to speak outside the subject, and when I was supposed to speak to Mrs Tabakovic, Tabakovic said that I was misleading the public, and I am sure that everything I said was in accordance with the Constitution and with the law, but I did not send a word of insult to Mrs Tabakovic, I said that we were the opposition and that we would speak critically, but do not let Mrs Gojkovic, Madam President, have an unequal relationship with the position and opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15786	You explained article 106 which discusses the very point of the agenda under investigation, but you talked about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that was not done directly. So, in accordance with Article 103(1), I am not in a position to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has been done before, but you reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure 15 minutes later, when I took over the presidency. As far as unification is concerned, it is not a problem I will make a meeting with all the vice-presidents to have some other vice-presidents from other parties share their experience, so we will agree that it is best to hold a session, whether to throw out all parliamentary groups or to respect the Rules of Procedure. It is very important for the seven of us to agree on how to hold meetings in parliament through years of practice. If you want, we'll certainly vote, even though you've hurt the Rules of Procedure this time because you missed. No, I don't. I thank you. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15787	Madam President, 104, 106 and 107. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15788	He can't do Article 106. That's over. You must be more innovative.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15789	Article 104 and 107
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15790	Article 107 has passed, so only Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15791	You see...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15792	It's over, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. What do we do? Or take a break between when you answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15793	I have one thing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15794	Here you are, but on the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15795	So I won't replicate to anyone, even though you let Mr. Babic do it. I just want to tell you that the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in that sense, which is said to have been yelled, aggressive and raised a tone to the governor. No, the scream was on Mr. Becic to be exact.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15796	You can't yell at Mr. Becic either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15797	Well, then he can't interrupt us when he doesn't like what he hears. So that's what this is about. Let's just explain for the citizens, not for you. I know you won't, unfortunately, interpret it well on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15798	Maybe I don't really understand the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15799	I don't want Mrs. Tabakovic to think that someone yelled at her by opposition MPs. That's not true. We yelled at Mr. Becic because he keeps doing the same thing, and he knows what he's doing, and you know what he's doing and I wouldn't get into it. It's not right that this whole situation is turning upside down, like we were attacking a verbal governor, yelling at her. Please, in that sense, I think that you, as president of the assembly, had to react, and you had to react to yourself, not to accept this logically inexplicable thing, not related to actual events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15800	Thank you. Article 104. - if the People's Messenger is to speak with confidence. Of course, you didn't even mention it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: In this sense the Rules of Procedure has been broken. ) You did not even mention Article 104. I won't sanction. You're the champion of disrespecting the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you don't really understand it. It's important that you understand it essentially, not superficially. Since I've been looking at the transmission, do you know what it looked like to be an ordinary citizen, I consider myself an ordinary citizen, although I am now talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, it seems like you were yelling at the governor of the NBS. If you want to hear an ordinary citizen, it looks like you've raised your voice to her and yelled. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. There will be no further injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We're taking a five-minute break to get back on the agenda, because there's a tendency to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. We've had four injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and we don't want to have four more. It'll take a minute. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: This doesn't make sense. I know it doesn't make sense. I believe so, but I believe you will respect the Rules of Procedure, as well as other colleagues. I ask the MP not to hesitate not to receive, too, a reminder, as well as other MPs, and not to slam the door, regardless of which group they are from. [[Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Are we in a break?]] The rules apply to everyone. So there's no yelling at others, but there's no yelling at the President of Parliament and knocking on the door. It's a matter of basic education that comes from the house, and it doesn't come here in the late years, as Parliament's president. We can keep working, because it's been that minute that I've determined. The People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic has the word. After him is the Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15801	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome and give compliments to the governor and other significant NBS representatives, compliments on more than a very good job during the preparation of the laws we are discussing today. At the same time, I express my support for solutions that are on the agenda today, support without any reservation. I am taking the opportunity to point out once again, all the good that lies in these proposed solutions and that is why I support these proposals and personally, and I am also speaking on behalf of the entire parliamentary group that I belong to. At the same time, I thank colleagues who have also expressed unequivocally support today, not only for their support as such, but also for the use of words. For indeed, the material that we have in front of us today cannot be said that if we even recapitulated some modern history and multi-party parliamentary life in Serbia, it cannot be said that he has seen this hall often. In terms of how modern it is, how important it is, what everything is important with it, and in spirit it is this very time and that is why it is important. So, say that we will be happy and proud to support these solutions absolutely. I share them with distinguished colleagues. The support, under one, of the Insurance Act, because it respects good practice, not only of European space as a space which, I believe, has political support even those who, on great wonder today, have reservations according to proposals that come with the argument that they are part of the good experiences of that space. Even if we say that at least it's odd that someone who politically advocates certain values, and then criticises them, probably because of the need for criticism to be heard in the first place. We are talking about a space with developed market conditions that, in that sense, we see and which we consider to be a good example, something that we want to achieve on our own. Therefore, it must not be disputed when in this sense it is used as an argument, further, because a new level of protection is introduced for those who are users of certain services. We're talking about our citizens. Who in this room is going to say we don't need it to be our priority? No one will. So let's not even set up the arrows of criticism so that it gets through even indirectly. It doesn't deserve to happen. Furthermore, the bill on payment services, because you introduce important, new liquids, liquids modern, modern, completely in the spirit of this time. I'm talking about introducing payment institutions, talking about introducing electronic money institutions. You can, even if you're not looking too far away, and if you're not trying to spend too much time, as much time as we've been able to hear today, time seems to have been a critical resource for certain colleagues, people's representatives, when preparing for this session, to look at only the reasoning of this law. That only in the accompanying material do you find figures that tell you how much today, at this point, in a world like this, electronic payment is represented as such. How significant is the digital economy as such. So to be clear, without too much effort, why this is worth it and what's important with it. We don't want to talk about the historic moment just in the context of this year, the year on the run. We are practically one step away from this, although some have made sure that this step is not too short, by having at least one nice day of fun during the discussion of details, we will discuss this later. It is about a solution that, not only is it good because it introduces additional good opportunities for the market to develop further, that the branch, to achieve good new competition in a very important sector, in a very important sphere, is also proposed solutions which will be of direct importance for the Republic. I mean the postal operator, the ability to expand the spectrum of his services. We were, just a few months ago, at a meeting of the competent assembly committee, able to hear the level of total traffic being carried out through these services under the direct authority of the post office, how important it is, and how much more could it be, if it were accompanied by appropriate legal solutions and regulation that would help to further develop these types of interactions. Here's the right answer. Here's how it can happen, and it doesn't have to in itself mean just a bigger inflow for mail. No, that means multiple multiplication. Look, we're talking about several times the size of all possible facts in that sphere. So everything that follows it will be several times bigger, then several times bigger trade, so several times more traffic, so what does that mean for the state. Of course, it's not just the mail. We're talking about access to a decent millennium in which we are, using information and communication technologies, using mobile payment systems, new services. Can anyone in this room say one single word against modernization in that sense? I'm sure he can't. In this regard, I also support the solutions to the accompanying amendments and the addition of the three laws. It's a law on the protection of users of financial services, foreign exchange law, law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, and above all this first, of the last three that I have listed. Among other things, and because of the introduction of a new, significant dimension of the protection of users of services, i.e. our citizens. There have also been some comments on whether or not it exists, this law black on white shows that it has and explains how and what it means. This defines new deadlines, defines a new, more detailed procedure, thus defining new obligations towards users and citizens. An example works, an obligation to make them all so-called. the variable parameters of the contract which have often been the cause of dissatisfaction of users or citizens, are now necessarily public, that their current values are necessarily displayed. If that's not in the best interests of the citizens, let's see what it is, shall we get an answer to that question today? Today or anytime. Since the debate is in principle, you'll allow me to take comfort and a few more minutes to comment on the objections we've been able to hear today. They first refer to an emergency procedure. I think we've heard enough on the subject of an emergency procedure, on the subject of motive for the law to be present in the Assembly this way. Yes, we've heard enough about the deadlines that exist before us and whether or not you're an optimal behavior that because of that, what should be respected by the deadlines we put on the agenda today, we could still do it later. Is it optimal and rational behavior that we don't waste words too much? But it's interesting to hear such suggestions among other things and from those I praise the other day for noticing the intensity to suggest that some things be resolved more quickly and efficiently, which I personally welcome. Why now to spoil the impression with comments like this and with a approach like today? Then, some comments that are really hard to comment on at all. It's not the first time we've heard anything in this room. We've heard so many times in this session that something that didn't happen on some committee, that someone said something about it, and that it could be consulted, as if the video needed to be introduced from another planet, as if it wasn't available to every citizen. That someone knowingly enters the risk of being noticed how unseriously they approach each other without saying they're telling the truth, I'll avoid saying it. It's really a shock to me, but, well, never enough. There is still more, which one great thinker of our time would say – we will hear 1,000 more beautiful things. Today, we heard that the committees in charge were discussing this law this morning, and so quickly he entered the procedure. Just to call the citizens, anyone who's interested, just to consult videos that are publicly available on the Assembly site. As it does not stand, so does not the story that this law came two days ago, it can also easily come to the data, when this session is scheduled, whether the agenda was already known at the time, whether the complete texts of all laws were available in electronic form, not only to the MPs, but to anyone who wishes and makes one effort at the height of one click, to reach the full text. And the fear of 1,000 pages, truth to will, although that's not the point of wasting our time, all the laws that we're talking about today have 250-260 pages, not counting on the text of the law duplicating materials where there's a parallel difference compared to the old law, etc. All right, I welcome everyone's wish to read all the material we've got. But if it was that much work it wasn't, and that it was and that it was impossible, it wasn't. What's the evidence? For example, today’s debate, such as the argument used by just some opposition MPs. We have black on white evidence that people have read the articles, and now it's good if every proposal and every solution are understood correctly, it's another thing, but it doesn't say that someone just saw the text just now, it doesn't stand, it's clear. I might even be able to say that there is no number of proposed amendments in favor of the story as it was quick and we haven't been able to get ready, but I won't say that, because I know that 90% of these amendments are probably made by the general known -- it's deleted, which is probably why we should probably go back to that story about the day of discussion in particular, which is what we're expected to do then, probably another day in unfortunately another day in this hall, a well-known manner to tell as much as possible, and what we're going to say is less important. But, okay. If this is the price for Serbian citizens to further hone their view on how serious and responsible they are in this business, be it. It won't be hard for us to listen to more or more of the same thing again all day, until I get tired of the one who started it all, probably not knowing why. We'll talk about it when it happens, but that's protecting against degradation and saving the reputation and honor of parliament, the only thing that occurred to me when I heard it was that joke -- don't defend me anymore. If that's not evidence of an irresponsible and irresponsible approach, I'm no better than I've seen before, but, okay. Everyone chooses what they will and how they will, including the methods of work, so let's not be surprised how people will appreciate it, how they will value it, and how tomorrow someone will go politically. Will she deserve more support, if she wants things to be realized that way. Each and every one of us can imagine for himself. On the list of interesting notes today, we also had that this is what we are discussing in accordance with EU directives, and completely without regard to the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't take too much effort to do that either. You take a nice text of the law, you look at the accompanying tables that show the level of compliance and you see that good recommendations and good practice are respected everywhere, except in those particulars that we don't have to respect as a non-member country, right now, which we're just using as an option that we've been left with because it's in the interest of this country and its citizens. No special effort. Next, if there was no protection from the banks, I was already talking about it. You have the power to look at a few members of this bill and it will be clear what it is now different from what it was and how much it benefits our citizens. Further, to introduce "Pepal", and we can say 10 times that it has been two years since it was introduced it seems that it will not be enough. Maybe even if we didn't spend our energy on it, but the argument that we're introducing "Pepal," and we're not a rich society, more or less at the level of what if we get gas, what do we need more than a bike? Is that a good reason why we don't want to be a modern state and not be an effective system? We'll agree to that, I'm sure he didn't. In the end, that liberalisation is not good. Only if you take it as a term of freedom without any restrictions in which you can do whatever you want, but she's not. It is precisely creating conditions to create new competition, to make the market richer, thus offering richer, so if something is wrong, I guess what is better and will give citizens more motive to decide instead of that original bad alternative. All in all, no offense, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues, these objections are really nothing serious, and I don't see any reason not to call again, if the criticism is already such and if the arguments are what they are, that we agree, because I can see that we can. I'm not saying we will. Even now I could argue that we won't, since I've seen what the amendments look like. But let me call, though, because every good opportunity we have to take advantage of, to understand each other, to agree in good faith on things that are useful, uncontestedly beneficial to the public. Here's why. Not just because something like that is about to be adopted. It will certainly be adopted, but because once again, we have talked about it in this room, we have called on us from these lines to such an attitude, as we begin to demonstrate unity about things that are good for the country and good for the citizens sooner it will start to get better and it is not that calling for unity, as some can sometimes very wrongly interpret it, an invitation to some autocracy and one-mindedness, it is an invitation to assembly and harmony. And what she's worth, I don't want to talk. Again, each of us thinks about why we have that message left – just a slogan, to remember it every time we look at a state sign, because what the words of the most solemn song we have are mentioned again. I'm sure – very good reasons. I'm sure – there's a lot we can draw as a conclusion and I'm sure, if not now, we'll once take the opportunity to show that we've learned something. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15802	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Tabakovic and honored guests, the New Party will vote in favour of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists, but we will vote against these remaining four draft laws and I will, Madam Tabakovic, will, in the case of a proposal for a law on insurance to explain why I believe that all MPs should vote as well as we MPs of the New Party. We have two basic arguments and these arguments, respected Mrs. Tabakovic, concern the procedure, and the procedure, I hope you agree on that, is a very important part of democracy, Mrs. Tabakovic. That's probably the best you can learn right in the Assembly, and then I'm surprised that one piece of knowledge wasn't used here when preparing and sending in the procedure of these four draft laws. On December 5th, you did, or the Assembly came on December 5th, to these draft laws. On December 10th, we were sent a call for this session. It's December 15th. You say, Mrs. Tabakovic, an emergency procedure is necessary. You wrote it. To read to other MPs, he says – since the NBS has conducted the public debate on the solutions contained in these proposals we suggest that the National Assembly do so in an urgent procedure. Mrs. Tabakovic, three things are important now. One, so it is not the least important for the congregation not to have the most serious debate on some of the bill’s proposals. Mrs. Tabakovic, I am the MP in this House, I have not received information, nor has I been invited to any of these public debates. If your intention was, Mrs Tabakovic, to send these proposals by emergency procedure, why didn't you inform the MPs about the public debates? I'm interested in reading all the draft laws and reading them as much as I can. This was inconclusive. Mrs Tabakovic, second thing, I believe this approach is your obvious attempt to degrade the Serbian Parliament today, and the Serbian Parliament, gentlemen, is our central political institution. We always repeat, the sanctuary of our country's political life. In Article 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Tabaković, to read to you what it says, in attitude 1 says – the NBS is the central bank of RS, it is independent and, respected Members of the People's Parliament, is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly to which it corresponds. So, gentlemen, it is clear that the most serious debate was to be held in the National Assembly on these drafts of the law with the organisation of public debates and before these proposals came to the National Assembly, and here Mrs Tabakovic told us – we organised a public debate, and you in the Assembly if you will. Wait, gentlemen, what kind of approach is that? Please, in Article 281, when I read only then, it was not clear to me at all, says the law takes effect on the eighth day and will not apply until after six months. Dear gentlemen, was it possible that 15 days out of those six months, for example? We take the bill's proposals to arrive a little early, that we have a regular procedure for these bill proposals for 15 days, and then we discuss it properly. It is the first argument, Mrs Tabakovic, but not only for you, but also for Mr Babic, Mr Djukanovic, Giric, Orlic. I'm the one who resents the MPs here the most. The second argument, there is a terrible inaccuracy in the language, Mrs Tabakovic. For example, you tell us here – since the National Assembly implemented the drafts delivered... These are no longer blueprints here, Mrs. Tabakovic. These are the bill's proposals here. The material coming to the congregation must not have that kind of error or something I have read now on page 128. - unfinished sentences. There's no words in the sentence. Let me read it to you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Watch what it says. It says – the adoption of the new law in a comprehensive and most efficient way will solve problems in the application of the existing legal framework, as if in the most impoverished way, or no matter, as if in the most impoverished way, the legal assets of the European Union would be transposed in this area. Mrs. Tabakovic, as if she hadn't been read in the final version. Missing these species, Mr. Arsenovic, leaves an impression of the surface in the work. As much before the emergency procedure was not necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15804	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15805	I'm advertising Article 107. You know, it's very offensive what the speaker just said. Excuse me, is anyone here going to declare us incompetent to read the law, or is it going to humiliate the promoter? Well, I'm sorry, his printing error was stolen. It would be much more correct to talk about something here, and the bottom line is that it introduces order into this country's financial system, and they don't want to say anything about it because they've been causing a mess. They allowed 50 billion euros to be pumped out of this country during their rule, and here finally someone wants to control financial transactions. It's the only place I can congratulate Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15806	Mr. Djukanovic, I have no special comment. Do you want to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has Mr. Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15807	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your patience and tranquility in holding the session, but I think this way and with such a five-minute advance of the previous speaker, and of course I don't mean Mr. Djukanovic here, everything that means the National Assembly has been cruelly violated. Five minutes of talking about the front page of the law, about the transitional and final provisions, and nothing more, is the gravest violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. And that after a brilliant speech by a young colleague, Mr. Orlic, who is very calm, very correct, mathematically correct and precise, I would also say in the same way that when the laws entered the procedure and how long it was, but this is our fellow who surpasses the decibels that he did not read further from the first page, but he was very loud to explain why these laws would not vote. This speaks more of one who violates the dignity of the National Assembly. This speaks more of one who does not read further from one side, because the first page shows the name of Governor Mrs Tabakovic or the name of Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic. It is because of this political hatred, the political impatience for which some see bags on their heads, and they will vote against the law only because they came before the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it was proposed by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Here, and for all those who may not have been able to read as a previous speaker, this is the reason. If someone took the law, saw the front page and said – I won't vote, that's exactly why they should vote. But one calm and dignified way to tell people who violate their dignity not to do so is to use the energy they invest in hate more to read the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15808	Since it was a replica, I have no comment. Mr. Pavicevic, you have a replica. Here you go. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Why? ) Mr. Babice, if I gave you the right to a replica, as unobstructed as I wanted to be, so to speak, I can't be that hard to recognize that it was directed to Pavić. So, please, let me run the Assembly and appreciate myself. Sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Tabakovic and the Honorable Guests, I presume from the National Bank of Serbia, Mr Babic said here earlier that in his speech, I was the harshest...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15810	Mr. Pavicevic, not now, and you, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15811	It's a replica, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15812	Don't make my life miserable here, please. Do the replica with dignity, without mentioning the names of the MPs of the people. You know that's not allowed under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15813	So, the previous speaker then, Mr Arsenovicu, announced that in his speech, I had the most grave violation of everything that the Serbian Parliament means. On the contrary, gentlemen, I have called on the Constitution of our country, in which Article 95 of attitude 1 defines the relationship between the National Bank and the Serbian Parliament, gentlemen. Then, gentlemen, first and foremost from the Progressive Party, I focused on that element of every modern democracy, without which there is no democracy, and that is procedure, gentlemen. If there must be an institution, an authority or a body in which the procedure must be protected to the maximum level, then it is the National Assembly, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, and we MPs need first and foremost to take care of the procedure. I understand that some MPs didn't learn to follow the procedure, and then they give the opposition notices. We punish ourselves with some fines, but while we're here, we'll fight for respect for the procedure and read the legal proposals. To remind only Mrs Tabakovic, as well as Mr Babic and Giric and Orlic, that I have cited here both page 1st and page 128th and page 386, gentlemen, and that we have submitted 513 amendments to 513 members of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15814	Thank you. Mr. Babic, you have your word, since he mentioned you twice, but now we're done with the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15815	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I can agree that, of course, the procedure must be respected, the laws must be respected, but must primarily respect the electoral will. What the citizens of Serbia think is sacred. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia think is sacred, but I see that the previous speaker, supporting Bojan Pajtic's list, is not a sanctity that someone with 6% support, is now and 6%, holds full power in the AP Vojvodina. Where are the democratic principles? Where's the procedure? Why don't you tell Mr. Bojan Pajtic -- respect the procedure, respect democracy, get off the grid, call the elections and ask the citizens in Vojvodina what they think and what they think? Don't tell us about it. Besides, this is another confirmation of how right I was and how much of this kind of act, as we just heard that he read the first page, pages 128 and page 386 and that that was enough for 500 amendments... Is that normal, Mr. Chairman? Read the three sides of the law, you don't have time for anything else, but you submit 500 amendments and you say, watch out, meaningful amendments, where each member is deleted and where the same explanation for that erasure is, and you read three sides of the text, how well and precisely calculated by Mr. Orlic, of 200 and some sides. It is not enough that someone will blush, as they are now blushing probably out of shame because of such expression and everything he has said in the Assembly, but to read three sides of the text, three sides of the law and submit 500 meaningful amendments – is deleted, and is further promoted and taught someone about procedures. Well, you can teach Mr. Pitiæ about procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15816	Time, Mr. Granny. It's not mine to judge whether something is normal or not, it's every single person's business. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15817	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I believe that I am a member of the 27th member, which I advertised 20 minutes ago, while Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was sitting there when she did not allow any further replicas and when she took a break to discuss the subject. It is no longer in the focus of her interest whether she deals with the National Assembly, she went out, and you, Mr. Arsenovic, allowed her to talk outside the topic again. I belong neither to a coalition at the level of the Republic nor to a coalition at the level of the province of Vojvodina. Here we talk about percentages in previous elections, percentages enjoyed by which political party. What does this look like? What does this look like today's session? You're driving us from this assembly. This way of leading you four chairmans, who made it impossible for the opposition MPs to speak, Mr Stefanovic was interrupted, Mr Becic's word was taken from him, in which Mrs Maja Gojkovic broke up the debate, and now you have come to see that the SNS MPs can speak in the 'prait'. That doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15818	Mr. Veselinovic, I won't comment because the MP won't even listen. Let's move on. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15819	Mr. Babic spoke rudely of the 513 amendments, I am one of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15820	No, no, thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 108(1). - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I highly appreciate your lenient attitude towards the opposition and I ask you to continue to be lenient with all opposition parties, especially Janko Veseinović. So, to give them maximum attention, to let them talk as much as they want, about which topic they want, what they want, but one thing I ask you for is the dignity of the National Assembly, don't let them use foreign words so often, because to forgive me, I don't know what I'm saying. So, if this continues, if the doctors of law, the MPs are expressed this way, and they should speak Serbian for the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will ask for an interpreter, because Janko Vesenovic is completely incomprehensible to me and many villagers, workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15822	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15823	The esteemed chairman, a respected governor, respected colleagues, respected citizens, has been under discussion all day long and is likely to be in line with the importance of the laws in the procedure. We have two new laws, which is the draft law on insurance and the draft law on payment services, as well as three draft laws and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, as well as the addition of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The most important laws and certainly these proposals are the continuation of all those proposals that have been under way since the beginning of the work of this Assembly and in the procedure and will continue in the direction of how the Government has been from the establishment, that is, since the beginning of the work of this Assembly. The Insurance Act will certainly contribute to better protection on the one hand by citizens and users of financial services and insurance services, reassurances, as well as by the insurance and reinsurance service providers themselves. Of course, that this law on ensuring that it is in line with EU directives, but it is not only adopted because of the EU Directives, it is primarily adopted as well as everyone in this Assembly so that in this country law and justice can function in order to protect citizens through the introduction of legal procedures, and therefore all other participants in insurance, and not only in insurance in this case in this set of laws and in payment transport, where, among other things, change and in the part of foreign exchange business as well as in other laws that touch this area. It is very important to say that the Insurance Act has separated life insurance and non-life insurance for all those societies that will be set up, and of course we do not prescribe and we cannot literally prescribe every law of the EU. We must respect that in this Serbia, there are already insurance companies that have, in due time, been authorised to carry out both life insurance and non-life insurance, and in accordance with this law, it has specified that they can continue this activity, of course, with strict control of the NBS, which will strictly ensure that everything is in accordance with the law. It is important to point out where the Insurance Act concerns Articles 152 and 151 which introduce the first internal audit in the business of the insurance company as well as the members of the 154 to 160 laws relating in particular to the audit of the insurance company’s business and that these and such laws existed, there is a possibility that four state-owned banks and some of the insurance companies would not be closed. However, for the adoption of the law really to be noted as not urgent, all the laws passed by this congregation could, of course, have been passed earlier. In earlier years, if they were brought in, it would probably be less in debt for this country, and banks would do better business, citizens would have fewer debts. However, who then worked and how he worked, there are now five committee members in this congregation, or MPs who are interested in this subject. So much for who cares about the citizens and the laws we make. On their remarks that two-thirds of citizens have difficulty living, we agree that two-thirds of citizens have difficulty living, but not in accordance with this law and these laws that are being proposed today and that we will vote on in the next two days after the debate. We will also conduct a debate with all our arguments and in accordance with the time allowed by the Rules on the work of the Assembly, and among other things, who will speak depends on the support of the citizens. So we have enough time to say what is true, and the truth is that these laws are really reform and systematic. It is simply not a criticism that two thirds of citizens have difficulty living because of these proposals, they have a hard time living because of this policy that was conducted many years before these laws, before this assembly and before this government. Of course these same citizens aren't guilty of losing their jobs in one day, one year, without a factory, without a paycheck, without a future. We simply agree only in part that two-thirds of citizens have difficulty living, but as a direct consequence of the previously-led policy. Cheap political points that try to win by finding formal errors, written mistakes, simply speak for themselves enough about those who point to it. The bottom line is, and the bottom line is, these are laws that take into account that in the system, the banking system of inherited large debts resulting from huge loans from the most unfavourable conditions where it was in debt as anyone wanted and how it could be. Meanwhile, there are no more five, now there are only four and simply the legacy left to this government, this national assembly, this NBS of the Republic of Serbia is conducting behavior. What is important is that this NBS has full control over financial flows, and that it will align everything with the EU with the current change of these laws, but what is more important in line with the needs of the internal economic market with the business of both insurance companies and banks and all other payment participants. The draft law on payment services, here we really went from the topic, it's extremely important, I'll simply point out the big job that PTT Transport of Serbia is doing, all citizens of course see it, and all of them are, most of them are users of PTT's service right now. Between 35m and 37m transactions are carried out annually by JP PTT Transport of Serbia, which is for every praise, while all other banks and the Treasury Administration have about 10m transactions. Only those two figures talk enough about the size of the job that JP PTT does. The National Bank of Serbia, of course, wants to put the workings they are doing under control, under stronger review, under the bat to show up and see where there are problems to get them out of the way. Basically all of these proposals are about protecting citizens and whatever the opposition is trying to say, they can't really change the truth, and the truth is exactly what I said. What is very important to say is that in the 21st century, in 2014, and here in 2015, at the threshold, however poor this country is, there is still serious money in this country, serious money, which until the arrival of the governor in this people's bank went a little differently. These money that exists now will know exactly where they're going, how they're going, under what conditions and will be the minimum conditions for malfeasances that, until the law was passed, were still where and where simpler and could be implemented. This people's bank will prevent abuse, we need to use that money in the best possible way. One of the very important parts of the law, in providing services, is precisely the part relating to telecommunications, i.e. electronic banking, banking, which will be carried out through telecommunications devices, mobile phones, computers, Internet and all other achievements of modern technology. Here, for comparison, depending on how the Payment Services Act is arranged, regardless of the state of the country that the law has, and even in the European Union itself, the range of use of electronic banking is about 20-85%. Sixty-one percent of internet users in the European Union use electronic banking, payment and e-banking services in the course of the year, while the largest use they have in the UK is 85%, Denmark 81%, Germany 80%, to say Romania at the lowest rates, I think that's 15%. Twenty-two percent is in Bulgaria, while in Italy is only 30%, so the level of use of electronic banking is not directly proportional to the state's wealth, but regulated systems and laws. What is important is that someone also mentioned freedom, precisely that these bill proposals, these changes give freedom to our users, i.e. the users of banking services, so that they can execute their services, i.e. payments, in any bank, in any post office or other institution, an institution that deals with payment traffic. If you want to, of course, they can also do so through electronic banking, it is these laws that give freedom to meet the payments and all our obligations as we can and in accordance with our options. What I would say for the end is that it is not an exact claim that our citizens will not benefit from the Insurance Act, from the Law on Payments, on amendments and additions to these three accompanying laws. It may seem the same to some at first sight, but it is not the same and it will never be the same. The basic difference and the basic advantage is precisely who makes these laws and who implements them. Laws like laws aren't so bad, but there's always a problem in applying. This NBS, this government, this parliament will help and make it possible to just apply these laws as something that will protect both citizens and the state, because exactly the rule of law is the only guarantee for the freedom of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15824	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15825	We are today discussing a set of laws before the National Assembly, and I will, because of the obviously short period of time and requests from the chairman that our MP group has been seized about three minutes while MP Borko Stefanovic spoke, to add that time to make it possible to say more about these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15826	Just a little bit of getting along. You have six minutes and 34 seconds. As far as an authorised representative is concerned, he can only end up...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15827	No, he was one of the speakers and he was wasting our MP's time, but he was taken from him for about three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15828	Here you go, so we don't waste this time of crap.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15829	I want to say that it is always good of course to edit the system more than before, but I would ask the question and open the question – will the effects of this law be complete or will it be left behind? I think it is also important that some of the colleagues and colleagues here have talked about particularly new electronic services and how to improve payment services through the Payment Services Act and it is very important, of course, to enable effective payment, to raise the efficiency of our financial institutions, but it is very important and to prepare the environment, the economic and financial environment in Serbia, which can take advantage of all these opportunities that we can offer to our economy by this law. In the conditions that we are now talking about, about the possibility of effective payment, mainly that benefit will be directed towards buying probably through the world's largest service providers, I think it's important to think about how these services do and expand Serbia's market for our economy and our production in conditions, so I think in this way, when our DBP falls by the estimated 2.4 by the end of the year, when media announcements of course are that we have a decline in industrial production, a decline in agricultural production, I think it's important to think about how we will raise our country's financial strength to take advantage of this possibility of paying or paying from the outside and exporting our products in an efficient way. Some colleagues mentioned some of the infrastructure systems in Serbia, such as the Post Office of Serbia, with the possibility of developing their logistics services. So it's not enough just to use payment services, it's necessary to make a strong financial infrastructure, it's necessary to make strong and logistics infrastructure, marketing, a way to place these products, it's only one of the segments to take advantage of that potential, and I think the key potential is an effective government of Serbia that will manage our country's financial system in a much more efficient way. Obviously, it has not been successful these years, for two and a half years a great debt, here is a decline in GDP, and a huge deficit that has been valorised in this Assembly through the adoption of budget rebalances. I think that's essential when we talk about the new Payment Services Act. I think it's important to say that he is primarily needed to meet the needs of both natural and legal persons in our country. At this point, we have a pay cut, we have a pension reduction, we have general liquidity, we have an increase in insecure placements to about 30% in the financial sector, and it's obvious that this level of money is getting smaller. Obviously, the liquidity in the country is falling and we're asking one important and logical question here, we can agree on different levels of financial services, they can be the most modern in the world, but what we're going to do if there's no money to use these financial services. Insurance law. Since we mentioned financial institutions, first of all we think about banks, I think that we can agree, and also here there have been talks about how it can be intervened to reduce interest rates in the Republic of Serbia, so it was your answer that we should not do this by administrative means, but I think there is an important opportunity here, and we have a chance of taking advantage of it if you adopt our amendment, and that is to enable the insurance companies in the Law on the provision of plasma technical reserves and direct placement of those funds both towards citizens and businesses. We have referred to European directives and the possibility of doing such a thing. Yes, this Insurance Act is in line with European practice and European directives, but our unpreparedness shows that we really live in a banking financial system, where banks have the right to their financial placements, that is their core activity, but also their commercial insurance products. Why should we not, as in European countries, open the possibility that insurance companies can also have these placements? For the most important reason, and these are Serbian citizens, this is Serbia's economy, because we are talking about an economy that should take advantage of both these good practices and these good solutions from the aforementioned Payment Services Act, which is to lower interest rates and make our economy much more efficient and much more motivated to invest. Here's an example. We all know the passive interest rate is 2%. What's going on? These technical reserves are mostly placed in business banks with this passive interest rate, where an active interest rate is at a level of 6% to 7%, where banks work for that profit and sell that other person's money to whether Serbian citizens or insurance companies for that interest rate. So, if we were to allow insurance companies this possibility of placement in this way, I'm sure we would step up the financial market and work to reduce interest rates in stimulating Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15830	Thank you. The word has the governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15831	Thank you. It is time to say right away that I thank you for correctly assessing that the introduction of new services and application of the Payments Act provides opportunities, but I see no reason to doubt whether these effects will be achieved and will be used in advance. First of all, these are the benefits provided and will be realised on the domestic market. This means that new domestic payment institutions will be established in which people will work from here and where electronic trade will be made possible, which will be more competitive with its price because of all the parts I spoke about, direct payments without the possibility of charging a commission from the service provider and the other, which receive and do not give God a possible mediator. It is a benefit that we expect, to establish new institutions, to be made by new people, people from here, and that before and above all citizens who have to and should use this service get a cheaper service and not only to be referred to banks that now literally dictate the price of that electronic trade. So far, we only have two banks that literally enable the provision of e-commerce services under such conditions that companies, i.e. legal persons, do not decide to use it. It is up to us to create a framework and create conditions, promote and believe that the benefits this law offers will be realized. Our mission doesn't end with that. Our task is just beginning by passing and adopting this law, and the job of promoting, creating conditions for work, control and best way to advertise these services will be to monitor the application of the law. Control over the application of the law in the Law on Payment Services is one thing, and the possibility of limiting interest to financial institutions, regardless of how much I am a citizen myself and how expensive and difficult it is. It's just that you can't treat a bank service with the price of drugs, you can't interest in treating it with a utility service, you can't treat it with energy. These are areas that are also in the world, in the world we want to look up to, in one part controlled, but the cost of the banking service of interest is the price of money, but the borrowing of money in the created and found conditions in this society is like bread. It doesn't matter who doesn't have to. I understand, but understanding difficulties doesn't allow me to violate the basic principles of market economy, which is that in the existence of a system in which banks offer their services, they determine interest. Now I'm going to tell you what we're doing as a bank. For example, we have not applied in the Law on Payment Services the latest directive where we will, but we will apply it from next year, the prices of services that domestic payment institutions, and also the parties will always be transparent and clear, so that the citizen can be defined and used the cheapest and best service. We're doing it with banks now. I just feel like we don't represent the public enough everything the National Bank does and offers. You have a comparative overview of interest passive and active on dinar newly approved, old loans, on foreign exchange loans, as each bank offers and charges individually. We are recalculating their nominal interest into what is effective, in what is the actual cost of citizens, allowing citizens to choose on our website from reliable data and reports that we receive first step and competition and opportunities for citizens to choose. We can do it. We have made recommendations for loans in Switzerland that those indeterminate interest rates are literally sanctioned, but we can't force banks, because this is a market system, that they literally give a credit reprogramme because they're open to saying, we came to the point because the banks were able to assess the risk of currency unlike the citizens who were unable or had that information, nor could they carry out a quality risk assessment because they were offered. The post-modern way of life was life on loan and borrowing for everyone. Now that the effects of the financial crisis are being extended, now that there is no secure salary or income, when there is no job opening with the dynamics that we all expected, I simply can't say – the citizen didn't know what it was going into. The bank knew more, but the citizen had to know. It's not worth it to me to play Mother Teresa, this is a life where everyone has to suffer the consequences of their decisions individually and each of us and everyone who uses the credit is important to inform the citizens to the full and complete extent that there are no small letters at the bottom of the contract. What's important is that none of us here tell the truth that no general conditions and the rights of a citizen are prescribed to meet them. Excuse me, is there any other word than cheating on the public or telling the truth if someone says it's not in the law, and it says precisely in Articles 82 and 84? Let him be offended as much as he wants, the greatest insult is to tell a lie to me and anyone. I'm also asking you to be very careful to use the data on the GDP decline. Why is all the good data as a fact, for example, international methodologies of measuring inflation at the lowest levels, the international methodology of the measured foreign direct investment is one billion and 400 million? The most questions we have received are and from now on, this foreign direct investment is so largely measured by the methodology that we are obliged to apply as a candidate country. That data, where the numbers are positive, where they open up some hope, believe that they can go forward, they shut up, but the projection of the decline of the social product, projections, forecasts, forecasts, takes for granted, even though it's not, I don't know where you found the 2.4 data. The darkest forecasts from Serbia are that it is minus 2% for this year. "Comerc Bank", we get as the National Bank a report and estimates of credible institutions that observe us through the prism of public data. One Komertz Bank says it does not expect Serbia to have a lower drop, i.e. not greater than a minus 1.4%. I don't know, I can't be psychic, and that's the data that will be final in the first quarter of next year. But if we say -- the drop in GDP and all the dark data and the bad numbers, we point out the first plan, I'm sorry, is that how we do it when we talk about ourselves? Are we first pointing out our faults or are we talking about what we did, what our result is and what we intend to do? I'd just like to, I've never been silent. Today I faced practice that can be deceived by the public and by partial speaking the truth. A partial telling of the truth is when you say you are bringing into a constitutionally unequal position of the insurance house which is found as composite societies that perform services both life and non-life, and those that are created for only one type of insurance, continue to exist or can only be established for one of these insurances, but the point behind which is that those who have a licence to carry out one and another insurance must separate property management, capital, etc. As soon as you keep that part quiet, excuse me for talking to you, I'm just talking about what's been said here today, I don't think you've even mentioned it, when you're keeping quiet about this important condition to separate property management, capital and liabilities, you just blur out the first part, and it really seems like you're putting someone in an unequal position on the domestic market, even though you're actually applying the directive, and as it is, I'm proud, a young colleague, Mr. Orlic, explained, none of us are asking us to apply the strictest conditions at this point and immediately for our country, but we are left with the opportunity to liberalize some things at the last minute. I'm using this opportunity to thank you for your exposure, but I would also like to add, a request to liberalise flows in depositor accounts, so that they can make money abroad outside Serbia without restrictions. Excuse me, we have a recommendation from the International Monetary Fund to be conservative and I am very grateful to them for recommending that this be the last step in liberalising capital flows. Imagine you, in the atmosphere created in Serbia by a noisy minority in the media, that everything is catastrophic, that the predictions of an analyst, who says, is projecting, I dare not project, that the course in 2017 will be 130. What would happen to domestic savings, or savings in euros, if there were this liberalisation? Fear of capital makes it fly away in a moment, if there's no limit. No one transmitted the same economist's loud and sound statement when he said the growth would be higher in the coming year than the one the government forecasts. I'm talking about an optimistic scenario of a man who is very professional and who is allowed to make such predictions because of the experience he has and the impartiality of such prognosis. So I especially thank all of you who with caution and faith that these changes bring new jobs, new services, competition and many of you have had the opportunity to see what this trend of e-commerce growth is. Many can see how many streams have already been introduced into the regulars and I thank all of you who look that way. To those who have promoted other values, some others, call the Magnates in this country, who are not guilty of being Magnats, but the way they came to money, all those related groups that were damaged by the closing doors that they entered and knew which locks they were opening, exceeding the cost of these and such banks on the shoulders of the state budget, I am not surprised at them, I know that everyone does what he is confident or paid for. I'm taking the opportunity that in the absence of my colleagues, my MPs are colleagues, it says how much I respect the Assembly, to answer the question of whether a culturalist girl was admitted to the NBS in the foreign exchange sector. There's only one thing I can say-- it's a sin to tell such a lie. I am not obliged only to say to you: it is a sin. I am responsible for these and all others who work at the NBS, and I will do that, to file a lawsuit against whoever said it and to show in court proceedings before the competent authorities and prove as soon as possible who is trying to question one of the institutions of this country, which is the NBS, which is still considered the most credible institution, which is the most reliable data and has the most qualified bar that is very loyal to the institution in which it works, so that illegal data release, and above all untrue, must be sanctioned. He who is willing to tell such a lie must be prepared to pay for that lie. All the others we bring out, if that happens to us, the truth, we should also answer because of those who are telling the truth and who believe in us and in you who have come here, to talk, who voted or did not vote and who are asking for a review of the work of the NBS, you deserve, we deserve to hear and know the truth. The way to verify what the NBS is doing, which is proud of its responsibility in parliament, is to have the committees present. We were half a year with a complete crew. That committee wasn't secretly scheduled. It was intended to discuss monetary policy for next year, the results of the NBS is the Rules of Procedure which provides for the way in which we account. We will remain open to put those accounts before the citizens in any way possible, because none of us should forget, and today I have begun my exposure by having, before and after, and always, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to lay down some accounts. I didn't have a previous life. I believe that's figuratively said, but I'm willing to put my accounts first and foremost in front of you as a person who runs a responsible institution and I'm very aware, it's not my first time in power. I was a minister from 1998 to 24 October 2000. I led a very sensitive portfolio, for economic and ownership transformation, at a time when it was necessary to privatise both "Politics" and "News" and "Beocician cement factory", but also the most successful privatisations of the era and the most successful companies today exist and are the result of the work of these people and of monitoring me as a minister. There's not a single affair or ugly trail behind me left. I owe it, first of all, to myself and that is proof of my consistency that I am doing my job in the fair and in the interest of Serbian citizens. Please, I will always respond to the committees, as the Rules of Procedure foresees at this time, to make an account before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15832	Mr. Kiriq, on what grounds? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica, I was misread. Here, let's hear that mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15833	The governor was mostly talking to me, and I think you misunderstood me. I just wanted to get something straight, if I can. Since you mentioned it, I think you misunderstood, that I asked you to reduce your interest by administrative means. That's not true. I asked you, because in the amendment, especially on the Insurance Act, I'm about to propose that the technical reserves of insurance companies be released. You didn't answer that part of the question, and you said it was a request to take down the interest administratively. So it wasn't the essence of that proposal. Another thing, if we're talking about some data that appears in public, you said minus 2%, a 2% GDP drop in that estimate, is it going to be 2.4%? There's no one here intending to scare people here. We unfortunately had a situation in this year when people were really afraid of different Bible, hundred years old, such as, or such, events in Serbia. In that sense, I just wanted to clarify this part, because I think you've remained in debt for this response to the insurance companies. And potentially that amendment to Article 131. So that's where we gave the amendment, and I think it would be important to adopt it, as a proposal, because it will indeed liberalise the market, in fact boost competition that does not administratively take off interest in Serbia, but through the development of competition, I am now convinced, and interest and the price of money being placed on our businesses and citizens of Serbia. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15834	The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15835	I was talking about the law mentioned here, which allegedly didn't pay enough attention to limit interest, not the technical reserves you're talking about. We'll look at the amendment carefully, but in principle. When you say reserve, the very purpose of that money is to reserve it. This means that they will be made available within the shortest possible time limit for the payment of the damage, i.e. to show that you are responsible, not only for capital adequacy at the time of establishment, but that at any time, as an insurance company, you are ready to respond to the obligations you have. Plasma insurance companies are going through banks for now and no one's handing out the current situation in financial markets where money is being placed, not the hardest job, but the job that doesn't bring results. So, in this year, we have a cut even from abroad, and there are no roses, and our people who work abroad are sending less money. These banks, which have the highest ranking, where foreign exchange reserves are held, when I say the state knows what the state represents, all of which are foreign currency assets which, unlike earlier years, stand in our accounts, and do not turn right into dinar liquidity, but only carefully in line with the government's needs to make some payments on notices, etc., it's very difficult to place them, because today nobody wants to take the money, because they don't know what they're going to invest it in. Banks refrain from lending. They say we don't have a quality clientele. Again, people aren't ready to plan some production, because they don't know where to place it. So everything called insufficient growth, the economy that we are referring to, is reflected in us as an inability to plan and invest, or in clients in Serbia, which is why we, I must admit, have had a stagnation of credit growth in Serbia for some time now. Only the responsibilities of citizens who are forced to commit themselves to refinance their obligations are growing. So, this kind of production dizziness, called orders, safe orders from abroad, is something that needs to derail the banking sector itself. I really agree that more savings are becoming simply unattractive, in terms of who's crazy to only have inflation levels, not to lose in fact on that savings, and it's on a historic record level of 8.4 billion euros. We need to find ways for people who have an excess to invest, but not to turn it into all control instruments and security systems, not to turn it into some already seen crisis system, which is behind us, and that leaves its consequences today. We will carefully consider your amendment, with one principle fence, that the reserves mean availability as soon as possible. We didn't get it wrong. I was talking about another thing, so I hope you accept this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15836	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15837	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, it is difficult to say anything after such an inspired presentation, Madam Governor. But I would refer to what has been done today in all the discussions, today when we are discussing two whole new laws, amending and supplementing three laws. What bothers me is the ex-post mind of those who had all the instruments in the previous period, who could have all these changes and complements, all these new laws themselves to apply, those who destroyed the banking system, who now talk about how we have no money, how there's no citizenship of money, there's no economy of money. I hope that we will create and repair these billing proposals and put ourselves in a position to apply all these good proposals in these laws. Unlike the debate in the previous five hours, I would return a little to the meaning of these current draft laws, unlike individuals who do not know that the draft law should be in public debate, and only after the draft law, the bill comes to the Assembly for consideration. Ten years after the adoption of the Insurance Act, after amendments and additions made on several occasions until 2013, there was a need to make a completely new draft law, and above all because of the observed shortcomings in the process of applying it, as well as the commitments made in the process of negotiations with the WTO, concerning the liberalisation of the insurance segment, as well as the harmonisation of our regulations with EU regulations, which concern this area. The aim of the bill is also to improve this area, which in the previous period has improved its status in many ways, both through the arrival of new insurance market participants with majority foreign capital and through increased discipline, providing new services and increasing the protection of insurance users. As the bill was drawn up, it was taken into account that the best possible way to transfer and install the EU's legal assets from the insurance sector was to be implemented. Apart from the basic provisions on insurance, co-insurance, resecure and special emphasis is placed on the risk control process, i.e. A resecuritisation company's obligations to certain conditions, part of the risk beyond the country and abroad resecuritisation limit, and what is particularly significant, in the time of major natural disasters, the possibility of transfer of the overall risk to the country or abroad resecuritisation company. According to certain EU directives, a division of life insurance and non-life insurance has been carried out, but sub-groups of non-life insurance have been identified, and above all, in order to specify the businesses that the company will carry out from individual sub-groups of insurance. It is particularly defined which regulations regulate the areas of mandatory insurance in traffic, which are voluntary health insurance, as this is further regulated in the EU. Except that the bill stipulates the NBS to exercise control over this activity, the obligations of the company, intermediaries, insurance representatives, reassurance to ensure the protection of the rights of the insurance company, i.e. user of insurance and damaged persons. It is also prescribed that the NBS protects users of insurance services. What I would particularly like to point out is that the principle of separate life-saving from non-life insurance, which, at some point today, we thought was not so good, listening to colleagues on the other hand, except the law of established exceptions. This is meant by insurance companies that at the time of the adoption of this bill were authorised to carry out operations from both groups, which is good practice in the EU. For reasons that one type of business would not cover the obligations of another type of insurance, all of this in order to protect and protect, above all, the user of insurance services. As regards re-securitisation operations, the company may carry out re-securitisation operations for both groups of insurance. The bill sets out in addition to significant and control participation, in addition to the notion of participation in capital or voting rights, the notion of connected persons, the obligation of prior consent to acquire or increase qualified participation in the insurance society, is also a condition that the National Bank of Serbia appreciates, as well as the way in which decision-making gets prior consent, a case that rejects a request, a procedure of alienation, or a reduction of acquired quality participation, an expression of appropriate measures by the National Bank of Serbia, legal consequences for the case of acquisition without the consent of the National Bank of Serbia. What I would particularly stress is the proposal for entry into force of the law, and this was the topic we discussed very much today, where it is said that the law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, with the application of six months from that date, except for the provision relating to a foreign re-insurance company, which will apply from the date of accession to the World Trade Organisation and the members related to foreign insurance companies which are applicable after the end of four years of accession to the World Trade Organisation and the provisions to be applied from the date of accession of the EU, and also concerning the liberalisation of insurance services, i.e. re-insurance. Unlike some previous period when they signed in advance that we would apply some laws, although we do not know when we will approach them, this speaks of how responsible you have been to address these problems and primarily protect users of services in RS. I'd like to say a few more words about the other legal proposals, above all, about the bill on payment services. The rapid technological reason and new payment services and instruments, the tendency to improve these services globally, as well as the increasing use of modern payment methods in Serbia, I am primarily referring to the growth of electronic banking and use of payment cards, conditioned changes to the Law on Payments since 2002. I believe that this comprehensive and comprehensive bill has just solved all the issues and problems identified in the area of payment services, as well as the rights and obligations of users and payment service providers. With this bill of law and so on. non-banking service providers are allowed to do this job. Also, this law defines the concept of electronic money, as well as the publisher of the same law, allowing our citizens and businesses to use this modern form of payment. This bill has implemented the modernisation and adaptation of our EU payment system, created conditions for improving the business and competition of the payment system, and has provided increased protection for payment service users. So I don't owe because there's still a lot of colleagues to report for the word, in any case, these SNS bill proposals will support the day to vote and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15838	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word has the MP Vladimir Djukanovic, and let the MP Milanka Jevtovic Vukojičić register.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15839	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Governor of the National Bank, I must congratulate you on these laws. First, because you've shown one great courage, and you yourself said during your exposure that these are the laws for the first time that have been passed without any subfling or intervention of various stakeholders, and that is something that is very happy for me, and I have to admit that I'm not sure that these interested groups are going to be watching it peacefully, but I'm convinced that you're going to continue to survive the media campaign that's being run against you just because you're passing these laws. First, you of these laws finally, in fact, some state body is finally expressing its concern for the citizens, not for the banks. So far, we've had authorities that have taken care of the interests of banks and we've experienced one system, with the respect of everyone who wanted to invest something here, but we've had banks that were essentially here, not to use some other term or not to get me wrong, like drug dealers, and they've really acted that way. They did everything except banking business. So they didn't lend at all to the economy, but they mostly took from the citizens of the apartments or their property because they gave them incredible interest where people couldn't get it back. Now here you are introducing some things related to this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services Obligations to banks, which has not been the case so far, and will now be obliged to, first of all, explain to citizens what their obligation is without those fine letters. These fus notes are actually the most important because they usually put in those tiny letters and nobody sees what it says and then suddenly a commitment comes to you that you didn't even dream of signing. Now for the first time their obligation is introduced to you before you make a contract they dictate all your rights and obligations and what is very important to me, and that is, many have forgotten to say it here, banks are obliged to offer you a loan in dinars first of all, so if you don't, then they have to do an assessment in which coins can give you that loan as a citizen. So that's something that's very important. Liabilities are being introduced for banks that have never existed before, because obviously someone worked here, not someone but all of our authorities have so far worked solely in the interest of business banks that have even given one amazing thing, which is to control financial transactions in this country. It would be about like if you let a dog watch the meat, that they now control all financial transactions, and they never reported anything without a minute. The money was pumping out of the country, and it was really something that completely destroyed our entire economy and our banking system and our finances at all. I'm one of those who complains about the Social Accounting Service, which has been destroyed, but I'm aware that it can't come back now. However, I am glad that the NBS is taking much stronger control of financial transactions and that in the future, no one will be able to behave anymore, pump money out of this country, but you, as the NBS, will take absolutely complete control, and that is something that is very positive, and I understand some MPs here who are angry at the introduction of order into our financial system, but you know what? This country doesn't have the luxury of letting money out of it anymore. She simply has to keep the money here in Serbia and therefore I congratulate you, but I am still afraid that you will be on a media coup precisely because of these laws. You're, as many would say, hitting a snake in the head and I think you're going to have a lot of problems because these lobbies won't rest at all. I have to point out again with this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, a very important paper that you have introduced, which is – the users of financial services will be entrepreneurs and farmers in the future. Well, good for you, because we see that the state is in a good way helping agriculture. Recently, a law has been passed under which a farmer can advocate a future breed, no longer has to pawn tractors or his entire property, so that it is completely destroyed, but is a future breed, and is now becoming a beneficiary of financial services, which has not been the case so far. Here, the election is in both Mionica and Luciani. When you go to the farmer, the first thing he complains about is he can't get a normal loan. Now he's making it a lot easier on him, and I think the state here is absolutely going to meet farmers. It's a very good insurance law. I know that now a lot of people are complaining about why something like this is being brought in. This raises the level and sets some standards for what everything here can be called an insurance company. Honoring exceptions, there are insurance houses that have done their job with honor and, of course, you have nothing to object to these people. But there were some very disputable insurance companies here who at least engaged in some sort of deceitful activity, and in this way they took people's money. This is where high standards are now introduced that you have to achieve in order to deal with this job and I congratulate you on this law. Mrs. Tabakovic, I must tell you that I hear various objections, especially in this financial sector. A lot of people complain that you're introducing order, because I guess they've loved living in a complete mess by now. The country, at least according to data provided by US experts, is estimated to have been pumping money from this country from 2002 to 2012, meaning a period of about a decade from Serbia has been pumped about 50 billion euros and some billion euros, which is a frightening figure. Imagine if that money had stayed in Serbia, if it hadn't ended up on some exotic islands, if it hadn't been for some of the brother-in-laws on different accounts, that normal control of where that money was going, I believe this country would have flourished. That's why it's so amazing to me now that those who have introduced that system, that you can pump money out of here as you come to mind, to create state banks from which you can draw money by letting you know someone from the cabinet and on a personal map to go and raise a 30 or 40 million-euro loan, to the pretty eyes without any guarantee, now they're objecting to the laws like this that you bring here. It's really something totally amazing. In doing so, we even heard one MP who has no criticism but says he doesn't like the cover of the law. He didn't even read the law. It just shows us that you have seriously approached this business and of course you will have absolute support for the SNS, of course you will have full support for the money to remain in the state and of course you will have full support to somehow overcome all these media attacks that are going against you from completely incredible things that the NBS has gone down. People don't know the difference, it's not a commercial facility so you're talking about a minus, it's simply an accounting minus, depending on the course, but it's very difficult for some here to explain it. In the end, I would only tell you to be truly brave, to boldly get into all this, and I believe that, with our help, and the great support that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will provide, you will absolutely win and bring order into this country's financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15840	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15841	Mr. Chairman, the esteemed governor with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have today a set of financial laws, two system-based, two new, two comprehensive laws, and that of the Insurance and Payment Services Act. Apart from these two completely new system laws, there are three other laws stemming from the pre-mentioned laws, which are the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act, the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and the Law on Protection against Money Laundering and Terrorism. I would find somewhere a common thread that applies to all these laws that are before us today and I would say that a common thread of all these laws is, above all, the harmonisation of our regulations with EU regulations and EU directives, then raising quality, providing financial services through respect of EU standards, then raising the quality of governance and supervision of financial service providers, and ultimately the most important feature of these laws is the protection of users of financial services. First of all, I'd like to say that the law relating to the Insurance Act is systematic, that it's comprehensive. All praise for this law, for it is indeed from the Law that she was questioned and that, and how she asked the profession, that the Law was transparent, that all those objections that were justified and which, of course, contributed to the quality of this law were respected. As far as the Insurance Act is concerned, I must point out that the EU directives, relating to the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, are respected, and that the EU Directive, Article 18 and 19 of 2013 relating to insurance companies which now operate as composite societies, are licensed to work, that they can continue operations, but only on condition that they distinguish obligations, capital and assets and, of course, manage life insurance separately, in order to avoid overlapping these two types of insurance. Of course, the Insurance Act elaborates on life insurance, elaborates non-life insurance, elaborates on the bodies of the insurance companies, also details the basic amount of capital that the insurance company must own, in order to obtain a work permit at all, and is a life insurance company that deals with life insurance and reassurance of 3,200,000 euros, and a society that deals with non-life insurance of 2,200,000 euros. This is also significant from the point of view of insolvency and from the aspect of maintaining this level of capital. I would also like to point out that it is very important to inform citizens, i.e. the obligation of the insurance company, that when public information is published in means of public information they offer their sales packages, it is very important that these data be accurate, clear, to be based on real data, and all for reasons for the potential customer to have timely and complete information and, in fact, to carry out, in accordance with his needs, the purchase of the package, precisely the one that suits him. The Insurance Act and how precise and clear management of insurance companies is through four stages: risk management, which should be qualitative and quantitative, which should have a clear procedure, but also how to manage these societies any more effectively. Internal control, internal audit, as well as the control of these companies by the authorised auditor, has been developed. In all these segments concerning increasing the efficiency of management quality, of course EU directives have been used. What needs to be pointed out in the internal audit is that, as regards the implementation of the internal audit, the insurance company must have a full-time employee, of course the internal auditor is responding to the supervisory board, but the internal auditor is also responding to the NBS, instead of delivering a six-month internal auditor report, now under this bill, this report will be three months. The reporting to the NBS and that it is significant from the business aspect of these companies, and it comes down to the annual reporting, which relates to financial reports, to the three-month reporting and to this statistical reporting. I would also cite the surveillance measures that the NBS is taking towards the insurance companies, and these surveillance measures can move from warning to even withdrawing the license. This law provides for additional supervision, and additional supervision is particularly important in the context of a comprehensive assessment of the potential risk that the group is carrying out, because additional supervision is a group of companies, it can have and of course all in order to protect both the financial operations of these companies and the insurance or users who use their services. That the NBS was responsible for the adoption of these laws shows another law, it is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, where the term itself extends to entrepreneurs and to agricultural producers, but not only to agricultural producers but also to members of farmers or to those who are a member of the agricultural land. As regards the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, it would first and foremost refer to a clearly precise procedure for protecting users of financial services, and that is also important, to reducing the time in which the financial institution should give an answer, which is from 30 days to 15 days. Also, a newspaper was introduced here, so now the beneficiary of financial resources can appeal to the National Bank of Serbia. A deadline has also been prescribed for the complaint, but a deadline has been set in which the National Bank also has to respond to the beneficiary of financial resources, which is three months. What I particularly want to point out is that the National Bank can also take over mediation, or mediation, that if an agreement is reached between a client and a financial institution, this agreement has the power of an executive id. He, of course, doesn't charge, he's free. It is not certified in the public register because it is institutional intervention. It shall immediately be subject to the rule of law. Of course, all of these laws that you have filed today are fully in line with the government's plan, that is, with the government's plan that we need reform laws, not only to be reformable, but they are and how significant from the point of view of the starting base for our citizens to be better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15842	Thank you. The People's MP Nikola Jolovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go, Mr. Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15843	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Governor, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, achieves the objective of the Proposal for a Law on Life, Labour, Business and all other activities of every segment of society, so by adopting laws that shape these areas and trying to solve problems on the one hand and to improve the present and make the future predictable. As a National MP, I am proud of the bill submitted by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, given that we have before us a proposal that just confirms my previous words in 16 chapters. Namely, this proposal, which was obviously created by the sublimation of knowledge from above all economic and legal professions, while respecting positive examples from comparative law and estimating the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, has given in a very extensive way comprehensive and comprehensive solutions in the area of insurance, both in life and in non-life insurance. Teached by the experience of the previous period, in which the state served as a cover for all types of corruption and crime, which was confirmed by a series of arrests over the previous year, in a way that it had to as a guarantee of the work of state institutions to cover losses caused by negligence, awareness or unconsciousness, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia apparently decided by this law to start doing its job in terms of controlling the work of insurance houses. In this way, in addition to saving, rationalising the work of insurance companies, liberalising the market and opening up the competition game, the state will finally create conditions through the work of the National Bank of Serbia in which the insurance company will know what and how it provides and what its rights are, and the state will know who and how it works on the basis of the parameters required to be delivered on a three-month, six-month and annual level and that it is taking the right steps and making decisions that will prevent financial malversions and generating losses that have no consequences for the perpetrators, as well as for the companies they operate. Normally, the law has an adequate perspective on the future and that the law has taken over all the necessary elements of European legislation, in order to allow our adaptation to European legislation, and there is also a part of the law that will only apply when Serbia joins the World Trade Organisation, or the EU, and also respects the rules of work with the Swiss Confederation. In this way, a gradual liberalisation of the performance of the insurance activity in the Republic of Serbia is being carried out and thus ceases to apply the principle of territoriality. The comprehensiveness of the solution is reflected in an adequate analysis which treated each segment of the insurance work as a partial cell, but also synthesis that defined the interaction between the elements, creating an unbreakable continent and to detail a precisely defined way of working. I would single out this couple of solutions that have arisen from work problems in previous periods, whose application, such as the introduction of gas testing at pumps, is given incomparable efficiency in the work and quality of services, without marketing tricks and manipulation of false data. The ambiguity in the management of insurance houses, which is a model that enables better business control and is common in the EU. Defining internal and external control of supervision through auditors who have the possibility and obligation to communicate directly with the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. The separation of life from non-life insurance, in line with the positive experiences of EU work, and in order to prevent one type of insurance from jeopardising its risks and losses to the functioning of another type of insurance and clearly defined conditions and ways in which composite insurance can exist. Furthermore, the implementation of any possible type of labour control by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, with clear rules laid down under this law, i.e. precise rules given at the start of the game, rather than their changes in the process of working and adapting to the needs of relevant stakeholders. Full entry of foreign insurance houses, which can work under the same conditions under which domestic houses work, and in principle the branch of the company and also create potential that our insurance can form branches in other countries. So this is the liberalisation of a market that will create European-level players from our houses or lose uncompetitive and uncompetitive houses in the field of free market. The next thing I would like to say is to define the value of a founding role that cannot be less than 3.2m euros for life insurance, creating the prerequisites that false insurance market players must disappear, as the law predicted that payment of this role must be made at 100%. Using a contractual ally, and in the event that we can take away such a thing, where, in many places in the bill, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia is allowed to do its job in the interests of all citizens, it does it properly and successfully, primarily treating responsible actors and auditors through their broad powers. The last thing I would say is that the threatened measures of sanctioning irregular work through categories of criminal offenses, fines, with the definition of the procedures of the National Bank of Serbia, which may withdraw the work permit, are, for example, in article 260, 81 of the type of work for which the penalty is imposed on the insurance company, i.e. reassurance, amounting to 100,000 to even five million dinars, with certainly a fine for a responsible person in society. Also, the current Insurance Act provides for the obligation to distinguish life insurance and non-life insurance operations by 31.12.2014, which certainly imposes the same deadline for the entry into force of a new legal solution that is materially different on that issue, which is why an emergency procedure is launched. The draft law also contains a provision on the adoption of sublegal acts in accordance with the provisions of the draft law, and it is six months from the date of entry into force of the draft law. The provisions of Article 268 lay down a general deadline of one year from the date of entry into force of the draft law, in which existing insurance companies and other persons are to have their own organisation, capital, liabilities, assets, bodies, operations and acts in accordance with the provisions of the Law proposal, and that insurance companies comply with the obligation laid down in Article 25(3). It's a bill of law. In that time, existing insurance entities will continue to carry out their activities in such a way that under the conditions under which they are entered in the register of the competent authority and in accordance with the activity for which they have been authorised by the NBS. It is expected that the draft law will have a positive impact on all entities affected by their application, which are citizens and economic operators in the role of insurance, insurance users or third-party damaged persons. On the basis of this argument, I believe that the solutions offered in the Bill on Insurance are very good and really very comprehensive, and necessary from the aspect of compliance with the comparative practice and business of insurance companies in the EU, so I do not think there are any obstacles to the adoption of this bill. In the SNS vote day, due to the quality work of the NBS, which is really going to achieve envious results in the regulation of financial activity in Serbia, the law will be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15844	Thank you, Mr. Jolovich. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Let the People's Messenger Dejan Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15845	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Governor with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, in his presentation at the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Electronic Trade, of which more than a year has passed, I mentioned that, in addition to amending and supplementing that law, it would be necessary to amend and supplement a whole set of laws that directly or indirectly rely on this issue, including laws governing the area of foreign exchange, payment, postal, customs services and the like. We have witnessed that certain payment institutions have finally offered their services to the citizens of Serbia, but because of the lack of compliance with the existing legal framework, the institution could not allow Serbian citizens a complete set of services, which it otherwise provides in other markets. The biggest problem for our citizens was the inability to receive payments from abroad through this paying institution. The National Bank of Serbia has prepared a bill on payment services that should ultimately solve all problems related to the business of new types of payment service providers, payment institutions and electronic money institutions, whether foreign or domestic. In this way, the legal vacuum that existed with us is being filled in, given that in developed countries such institutions have been operating for many years and that their business in these countries has long been regulated legally. The new payment service law is in line with the relevant EU rules, which is commendable. It is particularly important that experts from central banks of Slovenia and the Netherlands also participated in the draft of this law. The Dutch central bank is one of the first central banks in the world that has actively dealt with the problems of electronic payment systems and electronic money, because some of the earliest digital money systems have been developed in the Netherlands. As a result, their experts have certainly the richest experience in this area. Of course, it takes some time after the law is passed, to see how the law works in practice and whether there will be any problems and misunderstandings. In the meantime, we can be guided by the experiences of countries where such regulations exist for many years, in order to identify in time potential problems in law enforcement and to analyse the solutions to these problems that have been applied in the countries concerned. I consider a very good solution to the amendments and amendments of the Foreign Exchange Act to the provisions that allow JP PTT "Serbia" to carry out foreign exchange transactions and to participate in payment transactions, to the extent that payment services are provided in accordance with the payment service law, as changes and additions of certain other laws have been avoided in this way. In the context of the adoption of the new law on payment services as well as the previously adopted Law on Electronic Trade, the amendments and additions of customs law are significant, primarily in the part of simplified customs procedures, its faster and more efficient implementation, which will be made possible by submitting customs sleep by electronic means to contribute to the acceleration of the customs procedure and the reduction of costs in external trade. In this way a modern system framework for the smooth movement of electronic trade and the provision of a complete package of services by new types of payment service providers, payment institutions and electronic money institutions is created whether it is foreign or domestic institutions. I believe that in this way, in full scope, the entrepreneurial potential of our younger citizens who are engaged or intending to deal with, for example, programming, providing different services in electronic form, but also selling their original products online. Young entrepreneurs will be able to offer their products and services on the global electronic market and be paid for them. It would be desirable for these, under the assumption that the internet entrepreneurs of the state formulate and a more favourable tax policy in the first years of their business in order to encourage the business of such entrepreneurs, some of whom will likely later establish their own companies and set up and employ new workers. Finally, in order to reduce in practice the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing, a law on amendments and additions to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing has been proposed. In view of the fact that payment institutions and electronic money institutions are involved in domestic and foreign payment flows, it is necessary to extend the term of the debtors under this law to them. What remains in some future period, in the context of a set of mentioned laws, are amendments and additions to these laws that will be covered by so on. Internet crypts used in payment transactions which do not have the status of legal means of payment in any country and whose elements are not regulated by the relevant monetary authorities. In addition, in a situation where, as a form of potential economic sanctions, there is an opportunity to exclude domestic financial institutions, from the international "sfif" network, as well as to shorten payment card processing services via visas or "mastercard" and other significant networks, it is necessary to ensure sound competition in the area of payment institutions and electronic money institutions in order to prevent the formation of monopolys in this area as well. Finally, with all this in mind, and today's discussion, and your detailed explanation of all legal projects, I call on all MPs, above all MPs of the opposition, and, of course, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for this set of laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15846	Thank you, Mr. Giric. The People's Messenger Dejan Kovacevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Aleksandra Tomic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15847	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing today an important set of laws that we have received from the NBS and this way I would like to thank you primarily Mrs Tabakovic for her time today to explain to me some of the parts that some MPs may not have given enough meaning or didn't understand. What I'm going to try to explain in my brief statement is that some of the members are related to the Insurance Act and I'm going to apostrophe important things and facts that make this law good and I think the court has also given the expert public over the past period, since the law, i.e. The bill has long been in public debate. The protection of insurance and other insurance users is one important segment in this law, the harmonisation of domestic regulations with European Union regulations, the need for insurance companies to become an important participant in the domestic financial market and given the resources they have. In a segment of better information of the insurance companies themselves, today we have heard from some fellow opposition MPs that this law does not provide enough information to the insurance company that concludes the insurance or policy contract. Of course that's not true. This law provides for much more than that. This law regulates the information that the insurance company is obliged to give to the insurance contractor or to the insurance undertaking before and before the general signing of the insurance contract, and for the sake of the public general and the signing of the insurance contract. For the sake of the public, I would like to read Article 82, which decidently lists all the information that must contain and information for the insurance contractor before the insurance is concluded. According to the insurance company, before the conclusion of the insurance contract, the insurance contractor shall notify at least about, so says – the business name in legal form, the seat and address, the insurance company’s headquarters, the terms and conditions applicable to the insurance contract, the time of validity of the insurance contract, the risks covered insurance and exclusions related to those risks, the premium height, the way in which the insurance premium is paid, the amount of the contribution, the tax and other costs charged in addition to the insurance premium, as well as the total amount of the payment, the period of termination of the break-up contracts, i.e. the right to withdraw from the contract, the time limit in which the offer is required by the insurance company, etc. So here are all the information that the insurance offer itself must contain. It is also true that insurance companies themselves are not sufficiently familiar with the general conditions of insurance. I must point out that whoever bought the insurance policy must know that insurance contracts are also subject to mandatory insurance conditions, which are part of the contract, and therefore it is illogical that someone who signed insurance contracts and received those terms, that he is not informed or that he has to ask for it later, it is not clear to me at all. Article 15 provides that the National Bank of Serbia plays one intermediate role between insurance companies and insurance companies in resolving damages, which is a very positive thing and something that will lead to a faster and easier resolution of those damages that might end tomorrow in court proceedings. Of course, this area will be more detailedly regulated by the acts of the National Bank which will also be followed by this law and therefore I ask that, within the time limit provided for in the law, we adopt those acts. Articles 85 to 113 deal with insurance interventions and representations and that is a newspaper that introduces that these two segments of intervention, i.e. insurance representation, are separated into two legal entities. Namely, what does that mean? One great thing for a simple reason, because insurance representatives are people who only hire insurance companies, and insurance intermediaries are people who hire insurance companies to help them choose insurance. What is prescribed in Article 94 is for insurance intermediaries, which is what they should adequately adapt their service to insurance. What remains as one thing that has been kept from the past law is that paying fees to insurance intermediaries puts on the burden of insurance. I think they'd get better service in the insurance process, if that burden, that broker's cost would fall on the insurance burden. Given that we know that large companies hire brokerage houses to better inform about what kind of product they buy, and that in practice happens, since I come from the insurance sphere, in practice they don't essentially get better information, but I'm looking for an insurance house that gives him a higher percentage. So I think that in this part of it, and it might be necessary to consider whether this segment can be fixed, because if we get to the insurance intermediaries by choosing the amount of commission to which they will assign the job, I think I'm left with an insurance provider for quality information. In the end, I'm satisfied with a complete set of financial laws. We talked about it a lot today, and I won't say it again. I chose these segments, about something I don't think today was a word and I call, as well as my predecessor to all fellow MPs to support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15848	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Tomic, and let the MP Vesna Simic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15849	Dear Chairman, Madam Governor, fellow MPs, today we have heard a lot about this set of laws, but somewhere we all forget that essentially all these laws would not be suggested that there is no political will for economic reforms in Serbia to be implemented. We thank you, because this is actually a mirror of this policy that has been started since March of the month, but you have been in this function since 2012, and it seems to us that somewhere you started long before the elections when the people decided that over 50% of the trust to the Serbian Progressive Party. What is important to say is that somewhere you should be congratulated for this agreement signed with the IMF has actually mirrored how the National Bank of Serbia worked together with the Serbian government and came up with these results. It is seen somewhere that this set of laws is essential, in fact, the application and the plan that Serbia should go and which will surely manage to implement these economic reforms under the programme. Congratulations should also be given to transparency in the adoption of these laws, because everyone has had the opportunity to through certain public debates since May of the month until today, but probably those who criticise him did not have time to deal with these laws. They had the opportunity to hear and make some suggestions from that professional aspect, but it didn't happen. Then today was somehow the easiest time to criticize the story of an emergency procedure. This emergency procedure is simply a purely procedural nature, if perhaps the proposal had been five days longer, simply that idea of attacking it from the aspect of an emergency procedure would not exist. But, okay. It should not be regretted when you have unprepared criticism, but simply flat-rate, but it should be said that this set of laws defines both the rights and obligations of all participants who simply create a policy when we talk about the monetary policy of a state and the foreign policy of a state and the one relating to international relations in work through certain customs services. What should be said when we talk about electronic business at all and about electronic money, so that there was no "Pei-Pal" at the time of the great floods, simply there would be no possibility that many donors from abroad would be able to pay money and in an adequate way that Serbia would be able to be able to do many of the damages that have taken place and to defend the lives of the people who have been affected by these floods, they could not in some way reach their financial resources at a certain time on the budget and on the foreign accounts of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about electronic business at all, electronic money today, it's something that's in the developed states of everyday life. It only becomes the moment when we adopt a certain set of laws and when there is a possibility that economic operators who have daily activities can practically do business in an adequate way. When we talk about the insurance sector today, at a time when after 10 years we practically have a new insurance bill and when the National Bank of Serbia defines the way this entire sector will function, then we divide it into life and so on. non-life insurance. It should be said that in developed countries this degree of overall functioning of the life insurance sector is much more developed and it covers over 60% of the functioning of the insurance sector. A little less than 10% has been developed in Serbia. This life insurance sector is actually a kind of big investment. It is not by any chance that my colleague Giric, who is a doctor, talked in general about the insurance sector by different profiles, but probably forgot somewhere that one of the important parts of insurance through life insurance policies and the increase and improvement of health care services that each user, i.e. the payer of a life insurance policy, can somehow provide himself with a future in terms of better health insurance, better health care services, in one way using a new generation of medicines, and that is something that is normal in EU countries. Since this is all in the beginning with us, this is actually a beginning where the National Bank opens up the possibility that all those stock companies dealing with the possibility of payment, i.e. the conclusion of a contract with life insurance users, will be able to today, tomorrow, to reform the health system in a quality and well-organised way. This would also reduce the degree of corruption in society, thus opening up opportunities for foreign direct investment inflows, because when you have a stable, secure insurance system, especially from life insurance, and also from basic health insurance, and we have offers for supplemental, so-called. additional health insurance from many houses, then those private companies that want to open private clinics will accept a system like this that will give them a guarantee that the hospitals they build in the future will have their own committees. When we talk in general about the insurance sector and the way the bill was introduced into this assembly procedure by the National Bank of Serbia, everyone was talking about it somewhere, and I would say that by opening up competition, i.e. reducing the monopoly practically, and in this financial sector there is a possibility that you are essentially getting a single liberal market. By liberalising the market, i.e. by increasing the range of services in that financial sector, you are reducing the prices that an ordinary citizen has the opportunity to pay, but thus opening a wider range of services with which you can today, tomorrow at your disposal. Such an ordinary citizen, if he really decides in the future about certain arrangements for different types of insurance, then he comes into the situation that he has the possibility that, when he talks about schooling his children, he can use certain policies as a kind of lending of education, i.e. payment of tuition not only in Serbia but abroad, so that he no longer has to, as before, ten years ago, that if you want to pay life insurance policies you have to go to foreign countries to do so, you simply do so in your country. What is important to say is the conditions that improve competitiveness, which is given the possibility, which is defined by earlier legal solutions that this Assembly has spoken of, that is, the Law on Electronic Business, to specify the work of the Post Office of Serbia in the field of exchanges, and that is what is essentially a great opportunity for pensioners who are used somewhere to work with the Post Office Savings, today, tomorrow, if they have certain needs to do some trading jobs, they don't have to run to certain exchanges that do the job, but all these services can be done in their business units. When we speak in general in this set of laws relating to changes and additions to foreign exchange and to the part relating to money laundering protection, then it should be said that this set of laws somewhere the National Bank of Serbia has a vision that this area of all five laws should look at all for more than three years, because if the programme signed with the IMF is defined for three years, and we get laws that are in line with EU directives, Serbia will certainly push many sectoral laws to change its solutions, and those solutions are certainly going towards European integration. There are many things that will change, but these changes of the sun and those easy to pave the way for us to change a lot of things in the budget by 2018, and a lot of things in financial business, but also to learn from each other what it takes to do everything, how to relate to information technologies when we talk about the insurance sector and about electronic payment and electronic money. Simply, many economic operators get the opportunity to operate easier, but those who will inevitably become an integral part of the work of these operators must have a certain level of knowledge so that they can actually get their services on a daily basis. Therefore, this set of laws should be supported, because they give a future to Serbia, enable economic reforms that we are all aware of, allow our future generations to have the opportunity to really do their job, live in a country where they are educated and simply have a brighter future. That is why all SNS MPs will be happy to vote for such a set of laws. We will simply send a message that those who may not have understood in the principle debate now, too, why it is necessary to vote on these laws, when the debate on amendments supports such legislative proposals. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15850	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15851	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mrs Tabakovic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have discussed a set of five financial laws all day long and how we have had the opportunity to hear from fellow Members, it is a set of five modern laws, modern laws and laws that are fully in line with EU directives. I fully join my colleagues' thoughts. One of the laws that was on the agenda today and we also had plenty to hear about is the Insurance Act. The 2004 Insurance Act suffered more changes and additions. In the last ten years, however, the insurance sector has been transformed, the level of insurance has increased, market discipline has increased. New participants with majority foreign capital entered the market. New insurance services have been developed and the level of protection of all participants in the insurance process has been increased. The new law harmonised domestic rules with EU law. The subject matter of this law consists of insurance, reinsurance and intervention and insurance representation. What is important is that the principle of volunteering is the insurance of a person's property and remains the basic principle on which insurance is based in our country. Insurance operations include both life insurance and non-life insurance, but not compulsory social security. The law also provides for forms of horizontal risk sharing with insurance, as well as vertical risk sharing – resecuritisation. A split into two groups of insurance, life and non-life, has been retained, but are changed in relation to the applicable law relating to life insurance and non-life insurance, so that the risks covered by insurance companies are brought into line with the risks covered by insurance companies in EU countries. Mandatory insurance is only in traffic, while other forms of insurance, including health insurance, remain on the principle of volunteering. This, however, is also EU practice. The supervision of the work of the insurance company is performed by the NBS, and it should be, no matter what we hear, some don't respond, but unfortunately, what we do. On matters under its jurisdiction, the NBS shall decide on a solution against which an administrative dispute may be conducted under the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The insurance companies are obliged under the provisions of this law to take care of the protection of the rights of insurance, insurance users and third parties. The National Bank of Serbia also intervenes in resolving damage claims to prevent insurance disputes and discuss objections, which will be regulated in more detail by sublaws. The provision of Article 16 provides for the obligation to keep a register of entities authorised by the NBS and supervised by it. This law also regulates insurance companies and resecuritisation companies. The draft law regulates the way in which the NBS's consent is obtained to increase qualified participation in the insurance company. It is also foreseen that the insurance company can be established as a stock company or as a mutual insurance company, and the reinsurance company is only a stock company. The law stipulates that a person who has a residence, or headquartered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can conclude an insurance contract only with a insurance company based in the Republic. So, applying the principle of territoriality, and with foreign society only under certain conditions. The NBS infuse is also seen in what it can approve, for example. that the insurance company concludes an insurance intermediation contract and an insurance representation contract. The National Bank of Serbia can approve as an exception to the rules on the possibility of simultaneously performing life insurance and certain types of non-life insurance business, i.e. the possibility of carrying out several types of non-life insurance. Under the applicable law, companies could be established by at least two legal, or natural persons so far. However, according to the bill, the possibility of single-personal stock companies that can establish both domestic and foreign legal and natural persons has been introduced. Article 27. The draft law regulates the level of the underlying capital, as well as the obligation to maintain and maintain the level during the business of the company. This censorship was established in line with the solutions also contained in the EU directive. The risk of carrying out non-life insurance and reinsurance operations has been reduced, while Article 29 establishes a ban on mutual participation in capital, i.e. the right to vote by the insurance company, the reinsurance companies, as well as insurance brokerage companies and insurance representation companies. The law defines the related persons and makes the difference between the related persons and the natural person and the legal person. Conditions for issuing work permits are prescribed, the mandatory content of the business plan is mandatory, and the paper, in relation to the current solution, makes the opinion of the authorised actuary on the elaborate on the expected results of the business for a three-year period, the obligation to maintain the founding assembly, where general acts, business plan and business policy acts are adopted. The draft law sets out the organisational and management structure of the insurance company, so that the management is organised under a two-cameral management system. The law further lays down the responsibility of the Supervisory Board, as well as the solutions relating to the Executive Board, which must have at least three members, one of which is the chairman and representing the insurance companies. The National Bank of Serbia gives the previous unanimous selection of members of the board of directors and supervisors, who make up the management of society, and it is she who can take that agreement away. These provisions shall apply accordingly to resecuritisation companies. The conditions for the establishment of intervention and representation companies in insurance and resecuritisation are also foreseen. An obligation shall be imposed on the education of the reserve for non-exhaustive risks. Reserves for bonuses and discounts are introduced, on whose payment insurance companies have the right to participate in profit, reduction of premium or termination of insurance, while Article 120 provides for reserved damages as a liability for damages incurred. It is also predicted that, apart from life insurance, the mathematical reserve is also accounted for in multi-annual insurances that are accumulated. The law also provides for criminal provisions for those who do not comply with the provisions of this law, as well as a period of six months for the adoption of sublegal acts. As I said at the outset, this law, like the other laws that we have discussed today, is one system law whose provisions are fully in line with the EU system and as such should be supported, as well as other proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15852	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15853	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, much-respected Mrs Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly of Serbia, these laws have a foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who submitted the exhibit here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to us national MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia on 27 April 2014. That exposure, I must remind you, is the most comprehensive, most extensive and precise of all the exposés submitted by 72 of the previous governments to the National Assembly since the time of Prote Mateja Nenadovic in 1805, from the first Prime Minister to today. So, in one word, it's one of the best exposés in Serbia's recent history. The realization of the Prime Minister's exposé is a guarantee, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that Serbia does not experience the Greek scenario before which the former regime brought us. The adoption, in addition to other laws passed, and this set of financial laws contributes to the realization of the tasks set out in the exposé in the area of consolidation of the financial system. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister's exposé states that a set of laws in the area of reform will be passed by the end of July, but you forgot that it is true that we have been hit by catastrophic floods that have caused inconspicuous damage to our citizens, in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done an extraordinary job. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia later here, in this high house, said that these catastrophic floods would delay our adoption of reform laws by the end of the year. This is true. This is a response to Mr. Pavicevic, for his academic congratulations, but unfortunately he is not in this hall, unfortunately he never stays in the afternoon session, which is not at least academically congratulating. Of course, here they are, a new year ago, as promised. That's why, Mrs. Tabakovic, thank you for your commitment, as governor, as always, to be done on time, deeply professionally and deeply quality. In addition to others, the main objectives of this set of laws are to create appropriate legal assumptions to improve the insurance and payment services market, encourage competitiveness in these areas and ensure better transparency and protection of users of insurance and payment services. Just a few words to say, since colleagues before me have said it extremely well, and you too, Mrs Tabakovic, and more professionally, about the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists. It was adopted in 2009 and completed in 2011. He's got a lot of solid solutions. However, this law had to be brought into line with the provisions of the new Law on Payment Services, thus ensuring its impeccable application in practice and thus, ladies and gentlemen, we would reduce the risks and financing of terrorism. The Law on payment services introduces new types of economic operators, namely two: payment institutions and electronic money institutions. Also, the payment service law introduces a new instrument – electronic money. It is usually defined as the digital equivalent of cash, i.e. the electronically stored monetary value that is issued after the use of money, and is accepted as a means of payment from third parties. This money represents a pedestal instrument and is used for payment without the necessity of using an account in a bank. However, in certain situations where the amount of electronic money stored on a particular asset, e.g. the card, does not exceed the corresponding amount, electronic money institutions should be excluded from the obligation to know and monitor the party. That is why Article 12 has been amended, so that it is fully in line with EU rules, which regulates the prevention and laundering of money. Honored MPs, NBS supervisory institutions, as well as electronic money institutions and in accordance with the proposed Payment Services Act. The NBS also oversees the application of laws to banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions whose operations are being supervised, and it is necessary to establish that the NBS is overseeing the application of laws to payment institutions, electronic money institutions, which appears to be these laws. Dear Presidents, respected Governor Tabakovic, it is good that these laws are in line with European standards and are another step towards Serbia's EU approach. It is good that they really contribute to harmonising our domestic, Serbian legislation with European legislation. It is good that these laws gave good grades from all participants in the public debate, which included all those concerned, publicly, transparently and comprehensively. Finally, I call on you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to give your vote for this set of laws, and in particular from the opposition benches, unfortunately there are only four of you, because at least a little contribution to the modernisation of Serbia for which Mr. Vukic, the Prime Minister, with the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, is being held, is being assisted by Serbian President Nikolic and Governor Ms. Tabakovic. On that behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15854	Since the lists are no longer registered and before the search is concluded, I ask if anyone wants to exercise their right to Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15855	Dear President of the National Assembly, if you could just tell me how much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15856	Six minutes and 34 seconds
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15857	Thank you. I made two promises, and I'm gonna keep one. First thing, we need to get things straight. Some colleagues today said that we were not talking about the law, but that they were flat-rate political evaluations. I talked about several points of the Insurance Act and the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which I thought were either controversial from the point of view of the protection of citizens, consumers or from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution. To remove another dilemma, this set of laws, I don't want to buy them from the table again, there are over a thousand pages along with contributions, and the laws come together with the explanations and compliance with the EU, or explanations whether they are in line with EU laws. So much for that. I don't think there's any dilemma in the count. When it comes to matters concerning the constitutionality of certain provisions, such as the Insurance Act, Mrs. Tabakovic, Madam Governor, I will read the article once more. Twenty-four and twenty-five. Insurance laws. Article 24 states that an insurance company cannot simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities. Article 25 states that the provisions of this law do not apply to registered insurance companies and is then said – except for the conditions which say that life insurance and non-life insurance are essentially to be separated. That's the point. Article 84. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Tabakovic, has one very clear sentence – everyone has the same legal position on the market. Are these legal entities equal on the market, if they, which are so far registered insurance companies, can also deal with life and non-life insurance business, separated and registered companies, and can only deal with one business? No, they're not. It's my personal attitude and you can claim something else. I don't think you're right. The second point concerns the Insurance Act and the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. When you said I deceived the MPs and the public with that, I'll tell you that's not true, Mrs. Tabakovic. Namely, Article 82. The Insurance Act says what needs to be contained in the insurance contract, which elements. A colleague who spoke from SNS, Kovacevic, listed them all, I will not list them now. He made it very clear what the conditions are. However, there is no position among them to say that it should contain a provision that general terms are part of the contract and that the general conditions of business must be handed over to the insurance undertaking. Why would I tell you that, Mrs. Tabakovic? Here are some general conditions. I've now printed out one general condition in my break. Neither I nor you with dioptria, here I am, I can't read this. Why? Because this is printed in a font less than seven. Why? Why is it printed like that? Do you think because insurance organisations keep, save paper or because they want users not to read it? I'm telling you, already several laws that have been adopted here are, for example, the law on amendments and amendments to the Tourism Act, it is said that - general insurance conditions must be an integral part of the contract presented to the other party and must not be less than the font 11 and must be handed over to the other Contracting Party. That is a serious problem. Not only that, Mrs. Tabakovic. So you didn't listen to me well, probably. For example, the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services says the following, please listen to me carefully – the financial service provider is required to be visible in the business premises in which it offers services to users and on the website to ensure that the user is familiar with the general conditions of business in the Serbian language. So, in a visible place in the rooms where the contract is concluded. So, somewhere on the wall, right? Moreover, the financial service provider is obliged to provide the user with appropriate explanations and instructions relating to the application of general operating conditions if requested by the service user. So, the bank is obliged to hang general terms on the font wall, say, six, seven, and it's required to hand them over to the service user, and we talked today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15858	You're out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15859	... Let me just finish the sentence. Thank you. He's obliged to hand them over to the service user if he asks. So we're talking about the law on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Users and Financial Services of the Member of the 10th Governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15860	Thank you. The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15861	As soon as possible, estimating your time. If you had said - I accidentally caught a member of 82 to 84, here I would have shut up. It's not right to say you're still in charge if article 82 on the entire page gives information to the insurance contractor before the insurance contract is concluded. If you are explained that you need to give information before and during the duration of that contract and if in Article 84, here I now have to show the citizens this way so that they see if Janko is telling the truth or the governor is telling the truth, where he says – the text and content of the notice in Articles 82 and 83 of this law must be written transparently and understandablely and drawn up in Serbian. What do we have to write to make you happy, to make it a font 11? Well, please don't. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: It writes in other laws what it means transparently. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15862	MP, MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15863	So we're going to have to explain that depending on the dioptria, you now understand this as my joke, what's transparent enough and the office is dependent on my and your dioptria, the possibility that we have glasses of a proper quality, we have the general terms and conditions in view. I think it's an inappropriate cartoonation of the text of the law in which, behind the mask of protection of citizens where that protection has been brought to the highest possible level so far, they now find such little things that literally, I must admit, do not seem serious, font 11 entered. In the way you claimed that the previous text of the proposal, the draft law relative to this one did not make any difference because it had been on the site for a long time. When I tell the citizens, and I give you proof that two-thirds of the April 2012 text has been changed, will you continue to claim that you are right and that you have a personal view of it? Well, that's impossible. I won't answer my word again, and I'm telling you, but that's your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15864	The word has Dr. Janko Veselinović, a short replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15865	Very, very short. So, Mrs. Tabakovic, have you read the Consumer Protection Act? Mrs. Tabakovic, have you read the Consumer Protection Act? You didn't? These are the same consumers. Customers of financial services are consumers. Do you know that the Consumer Protection Act provides a font? Have you ever taken in stores before the law was passed, a product you couldn't read the declaration on? Yeah, it probably is. It's not a cartoon, it's a simple life thing. The thing to fill the form, so on a bottle or a pack of some product is put an inscription in Serbian that cannot be read, it is no cartooning Mrs. Tabakovic. We seriously don't understand each other, and I'm not gonna answer for a word anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15866	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15867	The Honorable President, the Honorable Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, so I think there was no time or place for fanaticism on the subject of applying these, as popularly said, reform laws especially if we have in mind the state in which our country and our society are located. I think it's much better always from one real point of view to observe every passing of the law and especially its application, because what we DS MPs have said today and criticised the urgent procedure and speed that these laws have come into the process and which they have found themselves on the agenda, I think it's completely justified by the very presentations of the ruling majority of MPs, because we have listened to arguments from the exposés to the floods that are in some way supported by the law entering the National Assembly, the procedure of the National Assembly. I think it was supposed to be completely different, but aside from that, we talked about it in the first part of today's session, and I don't think any of us are going to benefit from this kind of important laws that can have a significant impact on our country's GDP and on the development of our country's economy in the future. I think that certainly all citizens should benefit from these laws, and that should be first in mind for all of us MPs and representatives of the institutions of the state. It is not a good practice to transfer everything bad to previous authorities, it is certainly not good because the previous government and this government before it all thought they were doing the best, and always what was bad in practice in Serbia were calling for what the previous one did. I think we should take things realistically and discuss it that way and make decisions. The success of implementing these laws will not depend solely on the National Bank, I spoke about it in the first part of the session, because it is necessary that some other laws, including the Law on Electronic Trade, be applied, and that other state authorities fully apply that law, because that is the only way that citizens will gain full trust and benefit first and foremost from the service of electronic money. Also, the Insurance Act will not benefit much from reforming this part of the legislation, nor will there be too many positive effects if we do not allow the rise of our citizens' standards to pay for additional insurance, so that they can separate part of their salary to provide in this regard and secure their family. That's not gonna happen if we keep cutting wages and pensions. Of course, I think that any improvement and better regulation of the law both in this part and in each other concerning both the payment system and the protection against money laundering and terrorism should be supported by every MP in the National Assembly, and for us in the DS it is primarily important for citizens to be first in line, not banks and insurance companies, and we will also insist on that in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15868	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15869	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Tabakovic, despite this flood of amendments, the Serbian Progressive Party, which you could conclude from the discussion of distinguished colleagues and colleagues and I am truly grateful to them for speaking about the essence of these laws, rather than counting the days or counting pages, did not deal with the form or size of the letter, the Serbian Progressive Party will support this flood of amendments and vote for the draft laws you have proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. Today, I patiently followed almost the entire session, and I tried to see at least one fundamental complaint. I haven't heard it, but that's why I heard very high-quality answers, your answers, your tendency, and your desire to postpone the Insurance Act after many years, to delay the separation of lives to the non-life, it was kind of the easiest thing to say -- give us another year, but no, you're very brave in solving this challenge, and that's why you have SNS support. As for form, I can see that this is about font size, some fonts that match 20-year-olds for me are already small. I believe that when I enter some other years, these fonts that I now agree with will probably be small too. It's something that can't be legally predicted, because users of these laws are people who are 20, but also 60 years old. Not belittle anyone, but I think those grudges are really funny. As a mathematician, I took the liberty of seeing that in these five laws we have 567 members, that these laws in the assembly procedure were directed by you, Mrs Tabakovic, on December 5, 2014, and today, it seems to me, December 15, so we had 10 days to read more than three members who read Mr Pavicevic, or more than the title they read about how many colleagues they read and saw that Mrs Tabaković's signature and that was enough for them to refuse and that they were against. However, when it comes to this form and respect for the procedure, a flood of nearly 600 amendments has been sent to the congregation procedure. The sixth amendment to the 600 pages to be processed and read, not for 10 days, as far as these laws are concerned, but for one day tomorrow, to process, to read and respond in a quality way. No – it is deleted, no – it is rejected, but – it is rejected because of that, with that patience, with that patience that Mrs Tabakovic has, because she respected the National Assembly because she ate bread for a long time, and if I can say that I learned from someone this trade in a quality and good way, I taught him the moment that Mrs Tabakovic was deputy head of the "Forward Serbia" Serbian Progressive Party and I thanked her for it. Why didn't someone ask the question - well, people, you only have one day to answer the much more stuff that we buried you with, with a desire not to improve the laws, but with a desire to bury you, to get a chance to talk, to get out of the gym, to get some more important things. Well, Mr. Atlagic noticed here, unfortunately, only four MPs of the former regime. I am grateful to them for staying here with us, but I am much more grateful to my friends from the SNS because they have been here all day, because they have been discussing and looking for a connection, looking for quality, as I am grateful to Mr Orlic who has given such a strong and brave hand and said – there is space and places where we can agree, where we can all agree. These are the most stable places in our society. Why are you running away and why are you slapping on that hand? But that's more about our desire, about our patience, about wanting to calm down and calm down the political scene, about becoming a stable, normal and decent society, where political opponents aren't going to put a bag on their heads, like I've been getting messages, where we can, not be ashamed, but be proud of the points of merger. I see that here today has even been implemented and that is why we need them, and why did we get the EU's consent? Is this a sign that someone is giving up European values, and almost everywhere, in every location, anywhere in the world, I have proudly said that if something connects all 250 people in this high house, in this pillar of our country, it combines the desire for a European perspective and the European future of Serbia. Why did someone stand up and say, "Why do you need an opinion?" Yeah, we'll be looking for friends, we'll be looking for opinions, because we've given our hand not only to the opposition, not just to the former regime, we've given our hand to the world. This is best seen today in Belgrade, 16 prime ministers, the prime minister of China, not only the world's most human countries, but also countries with the fastest growing economy. It's pride to be in both Belgrade and Serbia today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15870	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15871	... but it's sad when someone and when it's pride to be in Belgrade and in Serbia says it's time, because they don't want to hear their country's success. What is it that carries us, what is this amount of political hatred where we don't want to hear the good news from our country? I wish I'd listened to more good news by 2012. I'd be proud. I wouldn't close my eyes and ears on it like you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15872	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15873	I thank you for this reminder and, in any case, in the voting day, the SNS will fully support these laws and with good luck, Mrs Tabakovic, in further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-15-0.u15874	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm proud of that news, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, unlike some others. Does anyone else want a word in article 96? Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
