ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13973	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković and Jelisaveta Veljkovic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and single search on points 7 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Bošković, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Prof. Zoran Rajić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Danilo Golubović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Slobodan Erdeljan, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Mr. Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Miodrag Pjesic, Director of the Republic of Water Directorate, Prof. Dr. Jugoslav Nikolic, Deputy Director of the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute, Mr. Sonja Gašić, Head of the Department for Sustainable Use of the Fisheries Fund in the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Environment, Ružica Tripić, Head of Agriculture and the Centre of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and the Centre of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Health, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture and Health, Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of Slovenia, I. A lawyer at the Compensation Fund and Dusan Dobričić, an independent consultant at the Republic Water Directorate. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 7, 8. The 9th and 10ths before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, the Proposal for a Law on the Financing and Security of Agricultural Production Financing, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Flood Protection Protocol under the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. Does the representative of Professor Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection want a word? The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13974	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today you have four draft laws before you by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. The two proposals are completely new laws in our system, while the other two proposals are ratification of international contracts. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to begin with the proposal for a law on protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. The earlier Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund came into force on 23 May 2009. However, during its application, certain problems and shortcomings have been identified in certain solutions offered by the law. The main objective of the adoption of a new Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund is to regulate the area of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund in a better way, to improve and improve the existing situation. Some of the shortcomings identified in the previous period, which directly or indirectly concern the way in which this area is regulated in our country are the absence of co-operation of all stakeholders of nature protection, the hydrobuilding sector, the electricity sector, forestry and agriculture in the conditions of multi-purpose use of water resources, which has led to isolated management with negative impact on fish stocks, insufficient transparency of use of funds from economic and recreational fishing permits and inadequate system of control of these resources, existing socio-economic conditions in relation to pricing in the area of recreational and commercial fisheries, problems with the nature of the solutions issued for recreational fishing with regard to fishing, the inaccuracy of the definition of basic concepts, which have been difficult to manage persuasive practices, the unfavourable nature of the fisheries sector, the nature of the nature of the fisheries in the fisheries sector, the nature of the fisheries sector, the nature of the fisheries sector, the nature of the nature of the fishing sector, the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the fisheries, the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries, the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries of the nature of the fisheries of the nature of the nature of the nature of the fisheries. The current law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund does not provide for control in the system of use of the fish fund, as a component of the biological diversity of the Republic of Serbia, the regulation of the role of individual entities in action that has led to imbalances between the rates of use of fish as a natural resource and economic development that arises, nor does applying the principle of efficiency and sustainable use of renewable resources, inadequate planning and use of the fish stock and the absence of control and monitoring of the fisheries rate pose a threat to the viability of the fish stock as a natural resource. In addition, progress in the concept of nature protection, i.e. natural resources, without shortage and disharmonicity with other laws that regulate the action of using fish as a resource, as well as international obligations to protect the nature of the state, suggest the need to adopt a new law that would effectively regulate this relationship. The current economic and non-economic interests and reasons dictated the conditions and method of exploitation of natural resources and goods, without including direct or indirect environmental impacts. Further use of natural resources and goods and changes in the spatial framework are only possible under the condition of permanent scientific based control. This type of control of the use of natural resources and goods is one of the basic tasks in protecting the environment. Management of natural resources and good and environmental protection is a requirement and a need for man and his relationship to nature. Such a relationship provides complete harmony between man and his activities, on the one hand, and conservation of nature and its values, on the other hand. Because of this, there was a need to define and regulate certain issues more precisely in an appropriate way. The need for sustainable management of natural resources is binding at this time on the adoption of new rules governing their protection and use, especially in the part involving the use of fish as a renewable natural resource. The proposed legislative solution improves the system of management of the fish fund covering the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund as a good of general interest, in line with the principle of sustainable use. The bill respects the degree of democratic and technical technological development, diversity and specificity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia so far and fully regulates the catch, protection and transport of fish and other animals living in water. The provisions of this law apply to fishing waters. The fish in the fishing waters of the Republic of Serbia is a natural resource and as such is a state property, other than fish in fish stocks, half-fishers, cages in fishing water and fenced or entrenched parts of fish-growing fishing water, which is the property of fish-growing facilities. The bill includes experience so far. In addition, improved legal solutions have been updated. The draft law, which is before you today, ladies and gentlemen, achieves the following objectives: the quality of the fisheries management programme has been raised; the level of expertise in the conservation of the fisheries area; the level of expertise in the management of the fishing area has been raised; the quality of the report on the use of the fishing area; the quality of the source of funding for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund is more defined, as well as the introduction of special accounts for the funds from the issued licences, in order to control the dedicated spending of funds; the conditions for the exemption of fishing waters from fishing areas have been defined. Then, more precise and more high-quality conditions are defined for the reduction of the fishing area; a better and more precise way of monitoring the conduct of entrusted operations by the AP Vojvodina; new potential entities for the allocation of fishing areas have been introduced; monitoring of the qualitative composition and the growing structure of the fish fund, in order to monitor the effects of the management programme on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund; mandatory consent and control of the values of licences not covered by existing legal provisions – licences for commercial fishing, as well as authorisations for recreational fishing, authorisations for protected areas, daily and multi-day licences. A special authorisation for recreational fishing has been introduced for fishing areas within the limits of protected areas; the harmonisation of the management programme for fishing areas with other regulations governing the protection of nature; the obligation to define specific habitats on fishing waters is laid down as places of importance for the reeds and other needs of fish – wintering, growth, nutrition, migration of fish, which prohibit any kind of fishing and other activities. A more detailed distinction has been prescribed in the sale of licences between users, through the definition of units of local self-government in concession contracts; better defined are the rights, duties and powers of inspectors in the exercise of control over the work of fisheries users. Amendments to the legal provisions defining penalties for offences and commercial offences have been made, in terms of increasing the amount of fines, as important measures in the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. In addition to the above, this legislative proposal also lays down the demarcated competences of the authorities of the Republic and the AP, which relate to: the concession of fishing areas to use, the granting of consent to management programmes, the fixing and distribution of compensations for the reduction and use of fishing areas, as well as compensation for granting licences for commercial and recreational fisheries. The proposed solutions in this law provide the responsibility of all the abovementioned entities for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, as a renewable natural resource, on the one hand, and of the competent authorities of the Republic, the AP and units of local self-government, on the other. Finally, I must point out that the implementation of this law does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The adoption of this law will not cause an increase in costs in the Republic's budget. Law enforcement will not cause an increase in the number of employees and the purchase of new equipment. The increase in business concerns the adoption of sublegal acts stemming from the law over a period of one year following the adoption of the law, which will be classified in the duties of senior officials of the competent ministry. Jobs carried out in accordance with the law by fishermen and operators of protected areas declared by the fishing area within the limits of the protected area shall be financed from the means achieved by issuing authorisations for recreational and commercial fishing. Allow me once again to point out that the Republika Srpska Fish Fund is a significant natural resource, and as such deserves to be kept and protected and in the relations that arise in the use of fishing waters, this interest is a priority. In this sense, this bill represents progress above all because it fully regulates the system of management of the fish fund, in line with the principle of sustainable use. This also meets EU requirements and principles stemming from ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection - the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on International Trade of Wild flora and fauna, the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlife, as well as the ratified fisheries agreements. The second draft law I am going to talk about today is the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production or, as the public knows, the law on pre-financing. By adopting this bill, our country becomes the first country in the region and one of the few in the world to receive a fully-rounded system of financing agricultural production. The ministry has worked for nearly three years to draft this law and we believe that we have made a quality legislative proposal that will facilitate funding in the area of agriculture. This bill is the result of a project implemented in co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the whole project includes the establishment of all accompanying mechanisms necessary for the implementation of this law. During the draft of this law. In co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the ministry organised two conferences - in February 2012 and February 2013, which presented the idea of introducing a pre-financing system to the public, involving representatives of the banking sector, insurance companies, producers and processors. Following these meetings, useful suggestions, remarks and comments were received from all stakeholders, and a draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production was finalised during this year. The passing of this law creates an opportunity to establish what is called the so-called law. the pre-financing system in the Republic of Serbia, which is a system that would make it easier for primary agricultural producers to access sources of funding at a time when they have the greatest need for financial resources, i.e. before a set of war cultures. The project was successfully implemented in Brazil so far in the implementation phase in Ukraine and Russia. Serbia would be the first country in this part of Europe to implement this way of financing primary agricultural producers and we believe that it will successfully live in Serbia in the way it has also lived in Brazil, where this way of funding has become dominant in agriculture. The paper offered by this legislative proposal is the introduction of a new element into a credit, i.e. contractual arrangement, which is the use of a stock on future agricultural products, i.e. stocks on future generations as a means of security. In this way, as a means of providing its loan, the manufacturer uses a future loan, which makes it easier to access financial resources, as no mandatory mortgage is required to finance its production, which is often an obstacle to accessing financial resources. The pledge as an instrument for ensuring the collection of claims has been regulated by the pledge of the right to move matters entered in the register. However, the newspaper adopted by this bill is the introduction of a new form of law, which is future agricultural production. In this way, the agricultural producer receives funding from the bank or processors for the financing of agricultural production, and these funds are provided by future breeds at its place of production. If after harvesting, i.e. the collection for any reason is not able to repay the loaned assets, the stock is activated at the future generation and the lender, i.e. the stockholder becomes the owner of the production results, thereby charging his claim. It is important to note that this type of stock is of a temporary nature, i.e. there is a limited duration of the stock until the end of the calendar year in which harvest is made, or harvest, and as specified by the contract. The application ceases to be valid by paying off the obligation in the manner in which the contract is specified and deleted from the register. An important element of this law is the financing contract of agricultural production which contains all the necessary elements for the definition of the rights and obligations of both parties contracted, inter alia, and the stock of future generations. The financing contract for agricultural production is entered in the register of the financing contract, which will enable the verification of whether a specific parcel is subject to an obligation, i.e. agricultural production on that parcel. What is important, and what this legislative proposal offers as a possibility is to define the obligation in monetary or commodity form, as well as the possibility of their translation from one to the other, which is defined by the financing agreement. The Finance Contract Register will be run by the Agency for Economic Registers, and its establishment will be funded by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Also, this financial organisation will support and promote the introduction of a new system, as well as training participants in the system. We expect that participants in the pre-financing system will, above all, be the primary agricultural producers as stockholders, while banks and processors will mostly appear as stockholders in the field of plant production. I particularly stress plant production, given that this law covers only plant production, because of the existing possibility of establishing this system in this area, but we hope that in the future with the successful development of the pre-financing system, conditions will be created for the introduction of this financing system and in the area of livestock production. I would especially like to stress that there has been a similar contractual relationship between processors so far, i.e. the purchaser, on the one hand, and the primary agricultural producers on the other. It's about what happened. the green contracts, where, on the basis of the contracted production, the primary producers of the processors received imputes for agricultural production expressed through parity for the final product. This way of funding is proof that this system has the conditions to function, and the law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production will only put this kind of relationship in the right frame. Also, this legal proposal introduces banks as new participants in the system, creating conditions for expanding the supply of banking products and making bank credits easier available to primary producers. You will notice, too, that the bill does not require mandatory insurance of agricultural production, which I must admit was our dilemma in the making of this law. However, not wanting to narrow down legal opportunities for the use of this financial instrument by requiring mandatory provision of crops and fruit from damage, we were guided by the expectation that the market would only impose such a requirement, which remains as the possibility of agreeing between the two parties. Finally, I would like to stress that we as the competent ministry are very familiar with the problem of financing agricultural production, especially if the seasonal cycle of this production is taken into account and the need for a single financing of the entire production cycle, which is a major investment for the manufacturer, and often a limiting element for the possible expansion of production. The adoption of this law and the establishment of a pre-financing system would overcome this restriction, which would create conditions for expanding and improving production, resulting in an increase in production and contribution. It is also necessary, in line with the limited appropriations, to stress that the adoption of this legislative proposal does not require additional appropriations, and given that a large number of participants in agricultural production, as well as the institutions involved, have shown interest in this legislative proposal, I believe that this system will come to life in our agriculture and will contribute to its further development, which will create real conditions for our agriculture to become the real development of our economy. The proposal for a law confirming the flood protection protocol, with the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin, is the next draft law that lies before you today. This legislative proposal was supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the bill itself was drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, i.e. the Republic Water Directorate, as an organ within the Ministry. As recently we've had opportunities to see, streams, floods, water protection don't know the state's borders. As a painful confirmation of this, we have this year's catastrophic floods that have hit every country in the region. These events reminded us all that we must cooperate closely when it comes to natural disasters. One of these types of co-operation is just the co-operation of states in the Sava River Basin. The Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin was signed by states in the Sava River Basin on 3 December 2002. The agreement, which entered into force on 29 December 2004, provides principles and mechanisms for regional co-operation. In 2004, our country became a country of the Framework Agreement. In line with the provisions of this Agreement, the states have committed to formulate protocols to address specific issues relating to the Sava River Basin: cross-border impacts in the Sava River Basin, emergency situations, flood protection and the prevention of water pollution caused by navigation. The flood protection protocol was signed on 1 June 2010. The Protocol regulates sustainable flood protection issues in the Sava River Basin caused by natural phenomena, such as large rivers and streams and barriers formed by the accumulation of icebergs and artificial influences, such as the release of water from accumulation and retention, caused by the collapse of dams or by inadequate management, changes in the spill, riverbeds and induction with the aim of preventing or limiting the dangers and reducing or removing negative effects from floods. The subject matter of the Protocol is to clarify the issues concerning, above all, the setting of common objectives, criteria and measures to protect against floods in the Sava River Basin, and related to prevention, notification, response measures, co-operation, exchange of information, etc. The implementation of the Protocol will contribute to the improvement of water protection against the harmful fact on the regional and national agenda. The Protocol creates a basis for managing the risk of floods, which must be provided at the level of the Sava River Basin, which is in line with the modern principles and EU legislation, in particular Directive 2007/60 on the assessment and management of flood risks and the Sustainable Flood Protection Action Programme in the Sava River Basin. The commitments of the Protocol will affect the obligations of the Parties to take measures on a national plan relating to the development of legislation, the establishment of administrative, financial and technical measures for sustainable flood defence, as well as the willingness to respond to emergency flood defence situations. This applies first and foremost to the obligations of the authorities and operators in order to establish preventive measures, alertness and response in the event of floods. The importance of good regional co-operation has become more visible during this year's catastrophic May floods, which have particularly affected the Sava River Basin and during which communication was established with the relevant institutions to defend the floods of the upstream states. Not waiting for formal entry into force of the Protocol, the Republic of Serbia participated in all activities of the International Sava River Basin Commission, which relate to the start of drawing up a flood risk management plan for the Sava River Basin, the development of a system of forecasts, warning and alarming of floods in the Sava River Basin and the development of an information exchange platform relevant for the defence of floods. We also consider the success of the joint preparation of the project proposal, the improvement of joint flood management activities in the Sava River Basin, whose realisation was launched this October, and the project is funded by the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans. For the water economy of the Republic of Serbia, the most watery state in the Sava River Basin, it is of great importance to pass laws confirming the Flood Protection Protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, especially after experiences with catastrophic floods from May this year. Finally, the bill of law that lies before you today, honourable MPs, is the Law on the Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Treaty of Cooperation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. The European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites is the only organization of this species in Europe founded in 1986 with the task of providing global satellite weather and climate monitoring data for the needs of the operational functions of the national hydrometeorological services of the Member States. Operational data and EUMETSAT products, with data obtained from national meteorological and hydrometeorological observation networks, constitute the basic component of the hydrometeorological system of monitoring, forecasting, announcements and warnings of meteorological, climate and hydrological extremes, disasters and disasters. The European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites is an organisation consisting of 30 states, full members. Bulgaria has become a 30th full member this year. The only remaining member is the Republic of Serbia. The agreement on co-operation, between the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and EUMETSAT, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed on 11 July 2002. After the abolition of the federal hydrometeorological institution, in 2003, which was the holder of this agreement, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute as a legal follower took over federal functions and continued activities in the conduct of the contract. In early 2009, the amendment was signed to the EUMETSAT Agreement with the Federal Government of the Republic of Yugoslavia, which carried out the necessary changes and additions to the contract signed. The contract is closed for five years. By confirming the agreement on co-operation and amendments to the Treaty, the Republic of Serbia has become an associated member of EUMETSAT. In the preamble to the Treaty, the status of an associated member has been defined as a direct step towards full membership of European countries in EUMETSAT. By seeking to extend the duration of the contract to a three-year period, the Republic of Serbia is expressing its intention to continue its co-operation with this European organisation, as well as its willingness to make the necessary efforts to join this organisation in the future, which at this stage is not possible because of existing economic and budgetary constraints. It should be pointed out that since the date of signature of the Treaty, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute has established good co-operation with that European organisation and that it uses the opportunities provided by membership in this organisation in daily work. The most significant, certainly, is the operational involvement of the Republic hydrometeorological institution in the European organisation and the reception of satellite products necessary for the functioning of the system, early announcements and warnings of dangerous meteorological and hydrological phenomena. The system provides 24 hours a day, 365 days a year satellite data, photos and products related to time and climate. Satellite data helps meteorologists detect and directly monitor the development of dangerous weather phenomena and enable timely prognosis and warnings for the needs of state authorities, businesses, scientific and research institutions and the general public. This significantly reduces the damage from dangerous weather phenomena and protects people's lives and property. This information is important for safe air traffic, navigation, road traffic, agriculture, construction and other areas. A rough estimate shows that due to satellite forecast data, five days in advance has improved by about 20%, and that the same quality of the forecast is obtained in three days longer prognostic periods. Today, it's impossible to imagine an advanced hydrometeorological service that our Republic Hydrometeorological Institute is seeking, without the use of satellite products. Through the adopted programme of meteorological and hydrological development and research activities for the period 2013 to 2017, the overall activity of the Republic hydrometeorological institution as a national hydrometeorological service of the Republic of Serbia is directed towards high performance levels in the performance of professional operational and development research activities as well as in the creation of a specific institutional framework for these achievements, taking into account the current financial circumstances in which the Republic hydrometeorological institution is working. The main strategic objective of the Republic hydrometeorological institution was developed, efficient and technologically harmonised by 2017. The hydrometeorological system of early announcements and warnings which forms an integral part of international and European hydrometeorological information systems and the basic component of the national system of protection of human life and material goods from the adverse fact of meteorological and hydrometeorological elemental disasters and disasters. The achievement of those objectives can be achieved through membership in all European infrastructure systems, including membership in the organisation of the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. In addition to the above, membership in this European organisation is our country's strategic interest in the EU integration process. We therefore believe that it is necessary to continue membership in this European organisation, by extending the duration of the Treaty on Realisation and by confirming the second amendment to the existing Treaty, and thus this Treaty would be in force until 31 December 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13975	Thank you. Is there any word from the committees in charge? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? First speaker, Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13976	Dear Presidents, respected presidency, respected ministers, co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several laws and agreements proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda. It is about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, the proposal for a law on the financing and security of agricultural production, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Flood Protection Protocol, the Framework Agreement on the Sava River Basin and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Cooperation Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites. At first, I would like to stress that the SVM parliamentary group will support these bill proposals, as well as the agreement. Of course, we also have some suggestions I'd like to make on these bill proposals. I would primarily talk about the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production, because I believe this bill can have the greatest impact on the business of our agricultural producers. In what state our agriculture is, we all know it well, we are all talking about the importance of this branch of industry, but unfortunately, our producers are making difficult progress. They have a lot of problems with the price of cereal, they've had problems with the elemental disasters this year. Because of all these things, they always count on the help of the state and believe me, it's not just about us, it's about some other countries in the environment. He's always welcome to any kind of help from the Ministry of Agriculture. I should point out that if the state wants this branch to make progress, it has to allocate more funds for agriculture. I am sure that without subsidies in agriculture, our producers cannot be competitors on the EU market. There's a huge battle going on, we've got a competition in the EU. Unfortunately, our producers can hardly reach the ground, not yet compete with EU producers. That is why this law is of paramount importance, since it is the intention of the Minister of Agriculture to help his farmers in some way, or to provide them with a chance to reach the funds when they need it most. Of course, the question of how will this law be brought to life and how will it apply? So this bill gives our producers a chance to do business, just like their colleagues, as we've heard from the minister around the world. The proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production is one so-called The European project, which was also supported by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. It is extremely good that all relevant stakeholders, i.e. representatives of primary producers, processors, insurance companies, banking sector and relevant institutions, participated in the draft law. Of course, there was a public debate, which is also positive. What all producers should know and what the Minister also said was that through this law, the possibility of funding is made on the basis of a contract that regulates the obligations and rights of debtors and creditors, as well as a period of maturity, a place of production, a secured claim, etc. The advantage of the law is that the financing system connects primary producers and processors through the possibility of providing financial means for agricultural production instructions by processors or banks in the pre- sowing period. Using this model, manufacturers can finance their production using the future deadline as a stock for obtaining funds. Most farmers have problems financing the most frequent sowing, so through this law primary agricultural producers are facilitated access to funding sources at a time when they have the greatest need for financial resources. What is novelty that will have a very favourable impact on the business of farmers in which the loan farmer does not have to provide mortgages over real estates, as is the case now. The existing practice of contracting green on which contract products are based most often between individual producers and purchasers, where money or agricultural production inputs are given as loans, the adoption of this law becomes more regulated. I am sure this law improves the model of short-term funding in a system way, ensuring the legal certainty of participants in crediting both creditors and debtors. To the future agricultural producers will be able to use future agricultural products significantly more as a means of security for short-term lending of primary agricultural production. Therefore, the ultimate effect of this law is to increase the credit potential of agricultural producers, i.e. to increase the production volume of primary agricultural products, while reducing the costs of financing this production. The law is also good for agricultural production organizers and companies engaged in the primary agricultural production process, as a new means of security is being introduced which in an institutional way can protect their interests as a financing agent of agricultural production. The law has a positive impact on the banking sector which will get the possibility of paying credit at a reduced risk and using flexible security funds, stocks on future agricultural products. This law must also have positive effects for consumers, since increased production of primary agricultural products also affects the planned agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia, thus ensuring food safety, stabilising supply and price on the market for agricultural products, and promoting market competition in the transport of agricultural products. As the ultimate result of law enforcement, we can expect all of us to have a more stable and favourable financial environment for lending agricultural production in the country. Of course, it takes time, the law needs to be brought to life and implemented in the right way. For all of these reasons, the SVM parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of this bill. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, the subject of this law is to regulate the management of fisheries resources in fishing waters as well as the conservation, protection, catch, use and transport of fish. This is an important law that needs to regulate an area that is of interest to a large number of citizens of our country. They are, above all, recreational, sports and business fishermen. You'll agree with me, it's a huge number of citizens of our country. We all know that the fish fund represents a significant economic resource of the Republic of Serbia, and as such deserves to be kept and protected and in the relations that arise in the use of fishing waters, this interest is a priority. I am sure that, in this sense, this bill represents some progress. First of all, since it fully regulates the system of management of the fish fund in accordance with the principle of sustainable use. It is of particular importance for us to meet both EU requirements and principles stemming from ratified international agreements in the field of protection of biodiversity. For us Members of the SVM, it is of particular importance that this law clearly lays down and distinguishes the competences of the authorities of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the units of local self-government relating to the concessions of fishing areas to use, the granting of consent to management programmes, the fixing and distribution of compensation for the settlement and use of fisheries areas, as well as the fees for granting authorisations for commercial and recreational fishing. It is good that the proposed solutions in this law provide the responsibility of all entities to protect the sustainable use of the fish fund as a renewed economic resource on the one hand, and of the competent authorities of the Republic, the Autonomous Province and the local self-government unit on the other hand, as the minister noted. Once again, I would like to repeat to you that for those of us who come from Vojvodina, it is of special importance, i.e. that the powers of the AP Vojvodina remain and that, in some ways, the AP Vojvodina will be able in an even more liberal way to dispose of its resources. In order to get acquainted with the problems of both users and sports or recreational fishermen, we SVM MPs organised a meeting with representatives of some associations. We held talks with representatives of the Bačka Topola association, from Sainta and Kanjiža and with the representative of the Fishing Union of Vojvodina, Mr Dusan Jovanovic. We also wanted to hear the opinion of the representatives of the fishermen and the representatives of the profession in this bill, since it has the greatest influence on them. It's a good thing there was a public debate, however, we heard from them that unfortunately a small number of suggestions were included in the bill. Let me just make some remarks that the representatives of the fishermen have on this law and say a few sentences about our amendments that we have submitted to this bill. Article 4 The proposal for a law is specified under which conditions the minister may exempt certain fishing waters from the fishing area, i.e. establish a special fisheries regime and conditions for the protection of the fish fund. The proposal states that fishing water can be separated from the fishing area if the purpose of that water is changed, e.g. fishing water becomes a pond and so on, as well as other purposes of importance for the Republic of Serbia. But it is not clear whether they have the possibility of a fishing organisation getting water to land outside the fishing area. Dear Minister, what is important for our fishermen, or fishing organisations, to possibly get some less water to manage. In Serbia, there are many smaller lakes, bars, dead bodies, surface spears, canals, which are completely abandoned because water users, or fishing areas, are for some reason not interesting, but are far from larger and more interesting water surfaces. Such waters should be managed according to their proposal to obtain fishing organisations interested in revitalising and making them interesting for fishermen with their work and engagement. There are also positive examples. For example, in my area in Tkonoplja, where the local association manages extremely well on the local lake. Otherwise, I, who come from the municipality of Bačka Topola, must not forget the last example of Bačka-Topolski Lake, where, thanks to the activities of the local association headed by Mr. Gjorge Zvicer, a number of years of illegal fish fishing has been stopped, and where, as things currently stand, there is a chance that the local association can once again create more than an interesting fishing destination. Dear Minister, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would ask you to pay attention in the future to the demands of the local fishing associations and, if possible, to allow fishermen to manage smaller fishing waters, of course, if they have conditions and if they are willing to do so, especially on water that are time-forsaken. Another problem that requires a greater number of associations, and even some users. the restrictions on commercial fishing during the network period. Article 38. The draft law defines the limit of fishing, I quote, in order to protect the fisheries fund, the user of the fishing area may, with the agreement of the minister, or the competent regional authority, temporarily, and for the longest period of one year, prohibit commercial fishing in a particular part of the fishing area. Dear Minister, we appeal to you that, preferably, any type of commercial fishing should be prohibited during the network period, which is determined by the user management programme. There is no greater problem with pressure on the fish fund than catching stem fish at the time of the network. Fish should be allowed to continue their species uninterrupted at the time of the bridge and thus leave numerous and healthy offspring. This is mostly the spring period from early March to the end of May. Fish are fished in this network in gloves, blue areas of river streams, natural and artificial bays that the user needs to categorize as nests, and this enables the fish to be calm and smooth during spring. These places are of strategic importance for survival and importance, i.e. increasing the number of fish populations are quite well known and not some great science clearly define them and mark them, and then as a priority to preserve and preserve them. I'm sure the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection can do something about this, if not otherwise, through some rulebook. In this regard, the SVM parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to this Member of the Bill. The third problem I want to talk about, and regarding this problem, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 41. The bill of law is the so-called problem. Single licenses for recreational fishing have long not been an advantage for a greater number of fishermen in Serbia. It sounds great that with only one permit you can fish on all waters, but in practice it is a convenience for maybe 5 or 10% fishermen. Most recreational fishermen fish, as they would say, in front of their own house because they are unable to pay a high price of travel costs and a longer-term stay on someone for the average fisherman to the remote part of the Republic. According to our proposal, the user before a single authorisation could issue a single user authorisation valid for all water allocated to the user concerned for management but only for the water of that user. Users may conclude reciprocal law contracts and thus extend the area of validity of the licence, if this is in the common interest. With this proposal, by the way, most of the fishing public and the users themselves agree on our information long ago. This would certainly make the price for recreational fishermen who are always fishing on the same waters, which is most of the fishermen in Serbia, more affordable while, of course, leaving the possibility of issuing a single permit for RS territory. Dear Minister, I urge you once again to take the SVM Group's suggestions as a common goal of achieving protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. Finally, I would like to reiterate once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production and the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, as well as other points on the agenda. Of course, we hope you will accept our amendments that we have submitted to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13977	The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13978	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that we will all agree, regardless of our political differences, that agriculture is one of the strategic branches of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, whether because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised and dedicated to it the role of one of the generators of the future development of the Republic of Serbia, whether because it is recorded in an external trade exchange constantly and this growing trend of surpluses that have been very positive in our external trade balance for any other reason in recent years. I'm sure there's a lot of reason. For this reason, it is also specified that, when EU accession is negotiated, agriculture is given special importance. Otherwise, EU accession negotiations in the area of agriculture fall within the most demanding and, I would say, the most important negotiations. The negotiations on Chapter 11 and on some other chapters directly or indirectly relating to agriculture, such as Chapter 12 or 13 will certainly be the most complex in our EU accession process for at least two reasons. The first reason is that agricultural policy at EU level, i.e. the common agricultural policy has one very important characteristic, which is that full harmonisation is needed at national level with the EU's agricultural policy and the application of all those EU legal flows relating to the area of agriculture. In order to make it clear to some MPs and citizens how important agricultural policy is for the EU, I will say that around 40% of the EU's total legislative framework applies to agriculture. Another very important reason why these negotiations will be complex is that a good strategic negotiating performance, a well-defined argument, an honest and direct appearance in talks with the other side, or the Directorate-General for Agriculture, can allow for the extension of the deadlines for harmonisation of agricultural rules, because regardless of the obligation of 100% harmonisation with all laws that are current at EU level, there is the possibility of extending these deadlines and this is not a significant factor at all. The other thing we can provide for our farmers is, of course, through one quality performance, winning, of course not for all farmers, but for certain categories of farmers, withdrawn, or special status, which can be very significant for them. In this way, we could, as far as possible, protect our farmers at the time of EU accession from a harsh competition that is ruling in the EU's single market. Why is it so important, why is it so important that we do these negotiations very well? Because at this point our farmers are in an extremely interesting position compared to theirs, so to speak, colleagues in the EU. Their financial power is much weaker, their infrastructure is much worse, their machinery is outdated, knowledge and knowledge of novelty and the application of novelty in the area of agricultural production is far lower. Now the question is, how can we solve this problem, or how can we overcome this great gap, which clearly exists between our farmers and farmers in the EU? What we can do, first of all, and what I have already said, is that through quality negotiations we provide as good as possible and as long as we can protect them from, what I said, the harsh competition on the EU market. Another very important thing to do in this transitional period, until we join the EU, is invest in agriculture, but not invest in agriculture as an abstract concept, but invest in our farmers, invest in their knowledge and invest in new technologies. At this point, our farmers, or the eyes of our farmers, are mostly against the state and they rely most on the funds coming from the state, whether they are subsidies from the Republic budget, whether they are funds that come as some kind of transfer from local self-government. What's the problem with this situation is that these funds are very limited. We all agree, I believe, in this room that, and very often we talk about it, there is an increase in the level of subsidies for agriculture, i.e. to increase the allocations for agriculture, but, on the other hand, we are probably aware that at this point it is something that is unrealistic, no matter how ambitious the investment plan in agriculture is justified, it is unrealistic, because in the situation in which we find ourselves, the difficult financial situation in the country and the global economic crisis that has been going on for many years, I think it is not realistic to increase investments, but, unfortunately, it is also farmers, but also countries, really only to save even more. That's why the state has to find some other ways to provide first, unfortunately, because there are many more, the survival of those small ones, so to speak, players in the area of agriculture, and then to ensure the smooth development of large ones that are, I'm going to say unfortunately, a minority again. One of the options mentioned are subsidies, and another thing, which I think is very important, which we're going to talk about probably much more in some future period, are funds that will be very soon available, and these are funds from so on. IPAR funds, i.e. access aid instruments, and in particular funds from so-called IPAR 2 components of this program, which relate precisely to rural development. As I said, given this reduced capacity of the state in the future, and also in the present, to subsidise agriculture and since these IPAR funds, which will be at our disposal for the next year, in one section relating to the financing of the supply of machinery, and already in early 2016 for some more complex programmes, what is characterized by IPAR funds is that, firstly, the procedure for obtaining these funds is very complex, and secondly, their orientation is exceedingly medium- and long-term investment. The analysis of the situation, when it comes to the supply of financial resources by agricultural producers, found in fact that the biggest problem farmers face is the provision of short-term liquidity, i.e. the provision of short-term financing funds, most often this period from sowing to harvest. In that sense, I think two serious problems have been seen when we talk about financing, or financing short-term agricultural production. One problem identified is that, for certain reasons, agricultural producers, i.e. agricultural holdings, have a problem obtaining these funds, mostly for two reasons. The first reason is that what would be acceptable as a collateral for banking, i.e. financial institutions, which is the underlying assets or some kind of mortgage, is too much of a pledge for the volume of the funds they are seeking, and on the other hand, something which, in terms of financial value, would be an acceptable deposit, which is the future line of which is referred to in the Law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production, this stock is unfortunately not acceptable as a security of credit at the moment or at least so far for our banks. The second thing that is very important when we talk about financing agricultural production is that, especially primary, agricultural production depends on the constant inflow of financial resources, because they first need a considerable amount of money for their concepts at the beginning of the season, that is, during the seed season, and these funds are then employed a rather long time period, i.e. the craft of these financial resources is quite small. As a result, our farmers were in a rather difficult situation, I would say, or were forced to say, under the assumption that they were looking for financial resources, because banks were rather reluctant to lend loans to agricultural producers for short-term financing of agricultural production, and this was most often done by taking loans under non-market conditions, i.e. unreal interest rates. Since our farmers normally do business with a very low profit margin and that is why they constantly need these short-term financial resources, if they had a little more profit rates, they could create a certain accumulation and on the basis of this accumulation that even for these needs they have resources from their own sources. Unfortunately, I say, because of this low profit margin, they are forced to take funds from banks, or, in this case, most often from some third parties. Since these interest rates were far more than market rates, virtually those profit margins, which were small, decreased even further. For this reason, there was an obvious need, which the Ministry, fortunately recognized, to adopt a completely new legislation that would address this area in a quality way and allow our farmers to collect short-term funds in one way, to say the least acceptable way for them. This law, which I'm going to talk about today, which I'm already talking about, is not just a dead letter on paper, as it happens, unfortunately, in our practice. This is a law that's been prepared for many years. As the minister said, he also went through two public debates in which all interested parties had the opportunity to give their opinion. He was created in co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. This partnership relationship between our Ministry and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the United Nations of FAO is something that gives us reasons for optimism, because this is one of the few laws that are not just some piece of paper that we are going to vote today, but is one law that is practically, to say the least, not wanting to reduce the importance of the law, one project, because basically we already know what the next steps will be and practically almost certainly, we can say that the results of its application will be very good. Therefore, after the adoption of the Assembly, and it is not by chance why it is only applicable from 1 March 2015, because we still have a lot of work to do in the next period, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will first create a register of agricultural financing contracts for the Agency for Economic Registers, i.e. the APR. Then, something will be done that, I think, is even more important, which is the training of all stakeholders in this process, where I would stress in the first place the agricultural producers, in order to be able to use these funds at all, and that will then be very important when it comes to the agenda using funds from IPAR funds. Because, from the communication I had with the Ministry of Interior and also from the European Integration Office, the biggest concern about the use of IPAR funds is exactly how we're going to train our farmers to be able to use these rather complex procedures and to reach those funds. In order to understand how important IPAR funds are, I must say that by 2020 we have 210m euros at our disposal in IPAR funds, funding funds. There's some kind of co-financing, but I'm not turning off the subject right now. So these are very important funds, and this training that we will be doing from the European Bank's funds for reconstruction and development will certainly be useful for some future projects that we will be working on in the area of agriculture. The second thing that will be done afterwards is that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will talk to actors on the banking market, in terms of providing more quality credit lines, i.e. credit lines under favourable, privileged conditions for our farmers. I'm sure something like that can't be disputed. First, because the guarantee of these loans will be the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Secondly, because, in the end, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is owned or partly owned by one of the banks, so, if nothing else, it can through that bank place future funds for short-term financing of agricultural production. I will not enter into the technical details of this law, how a contract is made, how the register of agricultural financing contracts is organised, what is the provision, the right to be held, how an extrajudicial payment can be made, because something has already been said by the minister, and I believe that my colleagues will speak as well. So that I don't owe, I'm just going to say for the end what's expected is the outcome of this bill, and I'd say that this expected outcome is almost certain. Therefore, the final result of the application of this law, which has been applied since 1 March 2015, is an increase in the credit potential, i.e. the credit capacity of our agricultural producers, which should result in them getting loans at very privileged conditions, at low interest rates. When they receive loans at low interest rates, then we can expect that their costs, i.e. agricultural production costs, are significantly reduced, and what I was saying was a big problem, their profit margins are increasing. It is, of course, also important for them in the short term, but I would also say that it is medium-term for them and for the state, because it will finally be able to create some kind of accumulation and in the future finance agricultural production from its own sources, even this short-term part, rather than having to reach out to loans. The second thing that is very important, and I think that's what the minister said, is that through the application of this law, an aggregate increase in primary agricultural production is expected. We often talk about agriculture, unfortunately, not getting as much as we can, and not getting it because we don't invest, or because we don't create assumptions that agricultural production is improving. So that's one of the benefits this law needs to make. Of course, it is quite clear that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia Group of all these MPs will support the law, but also the remaining three agricultural laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13979	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the "Dusan Vasilev" High School from Kikinda, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome them. Thank you. The next speaker is MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13980	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have four important laws in the field of agriculture, and I will focus on the proposal for a law on funding and ensuring the financing of primary agricultural production, because what each of us MPs in this House will say is that agriculture is our chance. Agriculture has been the only business branch that has been achieving a surplus in foreign trade since 2005. Primary agricultural production in Serbia's gross social product participates with about 11.3%, together with the food industry and over 20%. All these indicators are just saying how important today's theme is. What is also important is that the government shows a significant degree of energy and interest in solving one problem, which is a chronic lack of funds in primary agricultural production. Of course, for all the people who do agriculture, to say the peasants, there's always a little money when they're supposed to sow. For a country that provides subsidies from the budget and in general for citizens who fill that budget with taxes is always much to be given for agriculture. But what I can say is that, after all, a peasant in Serbia has been left to the state in the past, either through subsidies or business banks. Business banks, from this expansion of the financial sector to us and the arrival of foreign banks in 2004, have begun to lend significant loans to agriculture, but we must stress that our citizens know that these funds were extremely unfavourable. It used to be just green credits. These loans are on interest for 12 months and up to 30%. That's what's causing the problem. That is why this bill is extremely important. A law that says for the first time that primary agricultural production can be financed and regulated without direct budgets. What's important now and what's the note, is that this law introduces two new concepts. You, Madam Minister, as well as fellow MPs have already said, that the first new concept is the so-called pledge of the future generation. That's what's most interesting, because so far, all the bank loans I mentioned were first and foremost large mortgages. Em was unfavourable interest rates, em were mortgages that were taken, two to three times the volume of rights. This was primarily about movable property, it's a mechanism for farmers, and also for land, of course. Now this law introduces something that is a newspaper and something that we welcome, which is a pledge to the future generation. What I would like to ask you, dear minister, is whether before the bill could go with something, which I was asking through the parliamentary questions here, that is what the Serbian peasant and me in Šumadia, in Pocerina, and in Machva, Vojvodina, everywhere is lacking is the predictability of production. Is there anything more we could have done, and that's to solve the issue of protection from the city, the elemental disaster, that this system can be arranged once and that the peasant knows who will protect it. Then, it is in preparation for the 2015 budget to be foreseen in the budget and to make a recommendation in local self-government, together with the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. through the agrarian budget, to enter into the system of sub-financing of insurance. Look, if we now have this new law, we have a stock that's a future breed, and there's an elemental disaster, a city, a flood, and anything else that's going to do, and a peasant who's made a deposit in the future, and he's got nothing to pick, because he's been beaten by a city for the third or fourth year in a row, and he who's given that loan, and it can be a mill, he can be a cooler, he can be a fourth and legal person. It's something I wanted to hear from you, in which way we'll solve these problems, if one peasant puts over a registered trust fund, a future stork, and there's no higher power to this future generation, not by its own fault, but by once again undermining a higher power. By reading the explanation of this bill that is so interestingly the most extensive of all the proposals we have received in this House, I have seen that registered holdings can, let's say, be juryed to simply understand what it means. If a registered headship fails to meet the conditions of active ownership, it actively means that it can obtain subsidies from the state, it passes into the status of passive land and that and possibly another garrison that is its jury. This automatically means that it can no longer compete with the state, with local self-government for any subsidy. What I'd like here is for you to simply explain these aspects that I've been telling you so-called. More force. I'd also like to point out, unfortunately, that sometimes we go a step forward. You mentioned yourself, here I was trying in the surrounding countries to find examples that some country introduced this, but I couldn't find it. You mentioned Brazil, I didn't go that far, but the bottom line is that maybe we should have solved the question before, for example, the country's vomit, or restitution. I'd like to ask you, specifically, what's going on with the land that farmers are renting? For example, for one year or three years, will a family from that land that is a state land and which peasants take, or farmers, to rent, be able to come in as collateral from that land? Interestingly, it is a colleague who spoke before me who will give through the Agency for Business Registers to make a register of stocks and a register of agricultural contracts where we will see in one place how much we will under this law, so from next year we will have such contracts between, on the one hand, legal entities that will give money. They don't have to give just money to give seeds, they can give seeds to harvest, they can give chemistry to spray fruit and other things, and of course, they can get goods for it or they can get money. The interest rate is also agreed. This registrar because of the clarification of people watching this TV transmission is something similar to what you have a single credit bureau and where banks can see, simply as everyone who asks for credits stands, so in this register they will be able to see each other in one place and that there are certain registered holdings that want to take bigger or less in this way agricultural loans. What's important and what our viewers need to know in principle is when I say why it's important that we simply solve the issue of restitution, then this kind of thing in a much easier way, we wouldn't have countries now who don't even know if they're going to take the land in a year, whether for three years. Then how do you plan agricultural production in a successful way? Simply reading this law and listening to different comments from the two public debates that were, I must say that the law has passed that kind of criticism of the public, is that a peasant can take a short-term loan, it's up to harvest, for 12 months. As I understand it can be in the medium term, it refers especially to orchards that have three years to reach gender and possibly long-term, which is five years to buy land. I sincerely hope that these species will live because it is simply visible that lack of money, fresh money in agricultural production. In particular, I have to say, with us in Shumadia, because last year we were hit by the city as a natural disaster, which is why I keep looking back at the state as a quality way to solve this issue. If we don't solve this question, we're just going round and round. It is also important, and I wanted it to be noted, dear minister, that when I said earlier that the exports of agricultural products from 2005 to 2005 made surpluses, it is for every praise. However, if we look at the genealogy of our exports, it will be seen that the groat of these exports is actually a basic product. Now, we export corn, we export fresh fruit, we don't even have our first degree of processing anywhere. It's just another indication that we have a terrible potential here. If we now had this corn that we export, and according to some data we have about 300 thousand tons on the monthly level, we could only transfer it to the passengers, how much higher that would be. So these are our options, our potentials. The biggest exports are made to CEFTA countries, due to clarifications to viewers, these are all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, plus Albania, except for these countries such as Slovenia, Croatia that have joined the EU and Russia. Now one question, when we talk, and I've had opportunities and, personally, as president of the municipality many times to talk to potential customers, especially from the Russian market, is always the question of quantity. They say, "Okay, you're great, you've got great fruit in the forest, but you don't have a lot." That's where we're going in circles again. I have suggested several times, and this is an opportunity for you to hear and think about my proposal, that the ministry, whether it will form it, whether it will be an enterprise, such as Genex in the former Yugoslavia, which will in a unique way bring together agricultural and agricultural products from peasants, guarantee certain lowest prices. It is crucial that a Serbian peasant have predictable production if he knew what that lowest price could get in the coming year. And that's when the company shows up with Russian partners, because obviously this way, we're depreciated, divided, we can't be a serious partner on that huge Russian market. We're all saying that the Russian market is a huge potential for us. Then, the ministry must do more, Your Honor, to bring the cooperatives back to Serbia. No cooperatives or any other cooperative model, agro-coperative model, where you will gather the largest producers in one place. There to involve local self-government. These are issues in which we can be serious partners in both the Russian market and other major markets. This law is, once again, a pioneer undertaking to decide in a different way that primary agricultural producers get fresh money, but to try and look at all other aspects and help people. Look, with the energy of agriculture, it is this branch that brings us money in export, it brings us surpluses, but I don't think 30% of it is used to make it possible. The New Serbia parliamentary group will support the adoption of these laws in the voting day. Of course, what I want to point out is that we will support the remaining three laws. I would refer only to a few sentences on the draft law confirming the flood protection protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. You've already said that in the opening part. This agreement was already likely to be signed and agreed a few years ago, but apparently all these basic disasters, especially this flood that we and all the countries in the region had contributed to no more delays and that this agreement had to be signed as soon as possible. It is to be signed because these floods have shown that only the common forces of all countries in the region can defend themselves against the monster. What I would also say in one sentence about the Bill on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, of course we will support this law, but I would like to ask you to think about it, and that is what one of my colleagues has already said, that fishing associations, in municipalities and cities, allow them to manage these smaller lakes or smaller river flows, because these people are absolutely, not only protecting this river fish fund, but also affecting the environment, they also have cleaning actions and everything else, so that they invest a huge enthusiasm and they should in any case be supported. Of course, we will also support the proposal for a law confirming the Second Amendment to the Treaty on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, and that would end it. I would only ask you, to this particular one, could we already be in the budget for next year, as far as primary agricultural production is concerned, that we are counting on the state to provide more significant insurance subsidies and what will happen to the Anti-Government Protection Act?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13981	Thank you. The word is Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13982	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we today have very important laws in the field of agriculture. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund and the proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. Because of the special importance and the fact that such a law is first passed in Serbia, which is the only one in the region. First of all, I want to talk about the proposal for a law on ensuring the financing of agricultural production. The importance of this law is that it surrounds the system of agriculture before and after harvesting. The main reason for the adoption of this law, according to the prominent minister, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic, is the increase in the volume of primary agricultural production, as a strategically important development segment. So agricultural production is of paramount importance to Serbia's economy. The most important comparative advantage and a major developmental opportunity, and increasing the competitiveness of the sector is one of the priority objectives in the European integration process. Today's state of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia and its potential, restrictions show that agriculture is not invested enough, and development is not without large investments. In Serbia, family ownership and private property are dominated, while the average size of the commercial farm, businesses, range from 500 to 700 ha. Serbia has very favourable natural conditions, land and climate, and for a variety of agricultural production, both plant and livestock, experienced producers, top experts and scientific workers worldwide recognised selections of various plant products. The participation of agriculture in the overall GDP of the Republic of Serbia in the previous decade was 11.3%, while agrobusiness in general participated with more than 20%. Then, it is important to say that agriculture with the food industry is the only Serbian branch, a Serbian economy that achieves a positive balance in external trade, and in continuity since 2005, with a steady trend in surplus growth. In order to maintain this trend, and also to increase, stable and continuous sources of financing of agricultural production must be provided. We know that agricultural production has been largely relying on budget financing so far, but we also know that the current financial situation in our country has affected a significant reduction in the volume of budget financing for agriculture. Therefore, other alternative solutions were to be found to finance agricultural production. For most farmers in Serbia, the constant problem is the lack of funds to finance primary production. For these very reasons, as we have heard, the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has joined the creation of a Law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production within the framework of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Organisations for Food and Agriculture. In the process of drafting this law, a public debate took place involving a number of representatives and organisations of business associations of business entities, experts and domestic consultants in the field of agriculture. The basis of the law is one new form of financing agricultural production. This is a model of short-term lending of agricultural production, where loans will be recovered from the assets acquired by the sale of agricultural products or stocks on future agricultural products. In view of the fact that this law is the first to regulate the area of short-term financing and financing, it will first apply to the agricultural product in the area of primary plant production, and if the effects apply are positive, it can also be applied in other agricultural sectors, e.g. in livestock. Therefore, our farmers will have the opportunity to guarantee their production with the lender and thus come up with favourable funds, whether it is money or re-promatter, and without mortgage on real estate. It also allows for the financing of agricultural production based on an estimate of future generations. On the basis of this assessment, the amount of credit that agricultural producers can receive in advance will also be determined, before sowing and harvesting. Creditors can be commercial banks, interested processors, trading houses and other interested entities. The financing shall be made on the basis of a financing contract which regulates obligations under the obligation and rights of creditors. The financing contract shall be entered in the register of the contract run by the Agency for Economic Registers. The law stipulates that the user has an obligation to return the funds he received to the trustee in an agreed manner. As the primary agricultural production of crops is largely exposed to objective risks, e.g. the time accidents, floods and droughts, it is necessary by means of a contract to ensure an appropriate balance between the protection of the interest of the borrower and the protection of the interest of the producer of primary agricultural products, that in the event of the occurrence of the circumstances, resulting in the destruction of the gender or reduction of the planned yield. Since the higher power does not delay the fulfilment of the existing obligation, and the law does not prescribe the obligation for agricultural production to be secured, the system is expected to impose an obligation on the insurance of production, i.e. to introduce a practice for the provision of crops. So far, the premium of various crops has been from 2,500 to 4,500 dinars, but it was not a practice with us, although the state has refunded 40% of that premium. On the other hand, a legal solution has been proposed, providing a strong incentive for insurance companies to help a competitive and acceptable model of insurance for agricultural production. It may be another stimulant for our agricultural producers to reach the money at the moment before harvesting. Experts believe that the law on pre-financing should lead to a drop in the interest rate on agricultural loans. It is a system that provides an additional source of credit financing for our agricultural producers. By prescribing legal publishing law, the security of the trustee in respect of the financing contract is significantly increased, the potential possibility of the trustee obtaining legal notice in the event that no future agricultural products exist on the day of the arrival of the claim. The risk of this legal work is reduced by the trustee. This will make a real contribution to the increase of market effects in the financing of agricultural production, in accordance with this law. There is no doubt that lawmaking will be good and beneficial for farmers. Farmers will be more relieved and won't have to give the goods at the lowest price when she's in the ransom. The law expects the following effects: an increase in the credit potential of agricultural producers, and thus an expected increase in the production volume of primary agricultural products, while reducing the cost of financing production. The banking sector will get the possibility of placing credits at reduced risk and using flexible security funds. Consumers will have greater food security, stabilization of offers, more favourable agricultural and food prices. Exporters will get quality, quantity and continuity and thus ensure safe placement on foreign markets. It is known that in Serbia, the most important agricultural products are corn, wheat, sunflower, sugar beet, soybeans, potatoes, apples, plums, grapes, pig, beef, animal meat and milk. It is precisely the application of this law that should enable the real use of existing potentials, which are not small or negligible. According to the 2012 agricultural list, the number of agricultural holdings is 631,552. The area of agricultural land is 3,861.477 hectares. The number of members of the Landsmen and permanent employees of the Lands is 1.442.628. It is precisely the result of our agriculture that has been shown in data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, according to which Serbia's total trade in goods with the world between January and December 2013 amounted to four billion 360m dollars, of which exports account for two billion 799m dollars and imports of a billion and $561m. I would highlight the fact that the agricultural and food industry participates in the achievement of the country's social product with about 17% - agricultural production with 10.6% and the food industry with 6.4%. Here I want to look back on the fact that this law is certainly important for the environment I come from. In the municipality of Vrbas, 1,663 agricultural holdings were registered, and out of the total number of 10,000 employees, these are not data that have been published somewhere, but are the most approximate, in the food industry that was once made giants such as Karnex, Vitala and Sugarane, a total of 1,350, of which in Carnex around 1,000, in Vitala 150 and in Sugarna, only 200. It is very important not to forget small agricultural possessions and small holdings in Serbia, because with the incentive measures offered by this law, they can become significant organic food producers. Therefore, increasing the productivity of Serbia's agriculture can be ensured by increasing the profitability of small agricultural land and its protection. The SPS parliamentary group will also support the adoption of the second draft law on the agenda today, which is the Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund. The need for the protection and sustainable management of natural resources obliges us to adopt new rules governing the protection and use of fish as natural resources owned by the state. In the application of the existing Law and sublegal acts, the shortcomings of individual legal solutions have been seen, and the need for the introduction of new ones has been created, in order to better regulate the system of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. This means regulating the management of fisheries resources, which includes: conservation and protection, catch, use and transport of fish. It is therefore necessary to define the obligations and powers of all entities involved in the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund in a clearer, more precise manner and also to increase the responsibility of all participants. For each country, and for Serbia, the fish fund is an extremely valuable natural resource, and fishing is an important ecological, economic, socially beneficial and educational work. At the same time, the main objective must be good planning, efficient management and improvement of fish stocks, as well as the conservation of biodiversity in fishing waters, sustainable use of fish stocks and respect for fisheries ethics. The proposed solutions are the result of harmonising with ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, including the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on International Trade of endangered species of wild flora and fauna, the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, the Law attesting the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wildlife, as well as the ratified fisheries agreements. As a result of the implementation of those conventions and the sustainable use of the fish fund in Serbia's fishing waters, fishing areas are established. At the same time, take care of the exceptions. That's how they are with Article 4. The draft law defines cases where fishing waters can be excluded from the fishing area. The aim of this solution is to provide for situations where fishing water or its part have any other primary purpose, drinking water supply or sewage treatment network. The paper also states that the other conditions for entering the fishing area for use are more detailed, necessary documentation, situations in which the ministry can unilaterally terminate the contract with the user, which was not prescribed by the applicable law. In addition, conditions for obtaining a license for a fisherman are tightened. The fisherman's license can't get a face that's convicted of criminal acts. At the same time, the authorities of the fishermen have been complemented in order to address the shortcomings in the application of existing criminal provisions in the law. The special newspaper is the introduction of a user's obligation to monitor the qualitative composition of the stock, biomass, production and fishing pressure on the fish fund during the period of use of the fisheries area periodically every third year. This creates conditions for continuous monitoring of the effects of the management programme on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. The special news is that in order to obtain consent to the fisheries management programme, the user must first obtain an act on the fulfilment of the conditions of nature protection. The proposed law prohibits certain fishing activities and lists cases that are specifically prohibited, for example, to hunt and destroy fish young and fish at the time of reeds, poaches, fish directly by hand or by explosives. Article 25 provides that the user is required to determine certain fishing waters or parts thereof for specific fish habitats relevant to the fish, wintering, growth, nutrition and movement, the migration of fish. In special habitats, every type of fishing and other activities shall be prohibited. The law also defines sources of funding, protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, as well as the way in which funding, protection and sustainable use of the fish fund can be used. What is important, the law defines the rights and responsibilities of inspectors. The law introduces changes that will remove the problems the inspectors had during inspection. What's a special newspaper is the authority of inspectors to issue a criminal order on the ground, which is to comply with the Law of Infringements. Thus, the misdemeanor procedure should become more efficient and economical, and the perpetrators sanctioned on the spot, and the courts more relieved. In order to preserve and protect the fish fund, hunting for all and certain species of fish species, as well as a ban on fish that do not have the required size, is established. The draft law also lays down the demarcated competences of the authorities of the Republic, the autonomous province, the units of local self-government in the area of fisheries and the protection of the fish fund. The proposed solution in this law provides the responsibility of all the abovementioned entities for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, as a renewable natural resource on the one hand and the competent authorities of the Republic, an autonomous province, units of local self-government on the other. The aim of the adoption of this law is to make sustainable use of fishing resources, to introduce order among users in fisheries areas, and even better, to protect our fishing waters better, given the fact that the fish fund is well of general interest in the property of the Republic of Serbia and requires special care and protection. On the other hand, there are a large number of locations in Serbia that are extremely interesting for fishermen and a genuine marketing approach could make them attractive tourist destinations. Given all these reasons and the desire for these laws to fully achieve their purpose, the SPS in the voting day will support the proposals of the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund and the Law on the financing and security of the financing of agricultural production, as well as the proposed agreements to be spoken more by colleagues from my parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13983	Thank you, Miss Marash. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13984	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, respected co-workers of the minister, I listened carefully to my distinguished colleagues and indeed those on the proposed law, above all about financing agricultural production, said all its main characteristics. Many have also pointed to some of the main problems of our agricultural production. What I would say about the proposed Agricultural Production Financing Act is that it is more than one typical law, perhaps a Lex Specialise in its field, because it concerns financing a contractual, important business branch, which has functioned on these grounds so far, but had no, let me say, more elaborate normative. This law, in a legal sense, regulates the direct financing of agricultural production in a fairly clear way. It will certainly have some importance for farmers who have a constant problem to provide funds primarily for one-year production, but what this law does not touch, which is regulated by other areas of the Agriculture Development Strategy, that is, long-term financing of crafts in agriculture and long-term financing and favourable credit financing of land purchases for agricultural production. In any case, so far, banks have avoided giving farmers their loans, and these loans that the law treats, the majority of these loans will go through large agricultural producers. Those who are not, let's say, direct producers, are already more in the production organization, they will benefit from all of this. On the other hand, there are good solutions that point to new forms of security for the return of funds, i.e. on the basis of completed contracts with farmers, and some newspapers are introduced through the possibility that the funds will be returned through agricultural products, and that is something that is good. What I wanted to say on behalf of my parliamentary group is that we, for all the ministers of agriculture, count first and foremost after 2000, pointed to the same point of pointing out to these agriculture ministers, today I will show you, ministers, and your associates with great respect and respect. It is simply that we have adopted the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture in Serbia, the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy, the laws on the subsidisation of agricultural production and so on, and nothing much better has happened in the field with most farmers. They are still, no matter what agriculture is like, and it is largely on its knees, our largest export business branch. I don't think we did what other serious countries did. Minister, you can end your term with the same relationship as your predecessors had with agriculture, but you can also enter Serbian agriculture annals as a minister who has made significant reforms. Significant reforms, first of all, concern what, for example, in the transition period, and the transition has always been difficult, especially for agriculture, Slovenia has done. She had a constant year-on-year increase in the agricultural budget, a steady increase in subsidies. In a good period, they applied for EU accession and received a lot of funding on these grounds. In time, they adapted institutions to the common European agricultural policy. What we saw when we were visiting Slovenian farmers is a terrible imbalance compared to what we see when we visit our farmers. The conclusion of one of my friends in the Woodland is very simple. You say, you see the Slovenes, who are working and responsible, living on this shallow and late land as gentlemen, and we on our black woman by our rivers are starving. Who made that appointment? No farmers, they're no more valuable Slovenian farmers than our own, but states, countries that haven't done what every country has to do with its strategic planning documents. No matter what I think this law is good, there's nothing to object to it, I think the consequences of applying this law will be a small improvement perhaps in a very small number of farmers. I'd like to be denied. We will see, for example, in a year or two, whether the consequences of this law will be such that agricultural production is expanded, that the machinery has been restored, that farmers have extended their possessions and grouped, as they do in EU countries, which have done what we haven't done. This inconsistency in the implementation of the strategy, in our opinion, is the main brake of agricultural production. What's also one of the biggest possible problems, the problem that will cost us dearly as a nation in the future, and it seems to me that I belong to the MPs most often pointing to the problem, and it is closely related to agricultural production, it is not without people, it is a terrible demographic discharge of Serbia, a terrible imbalance in the development of the landscapes and regions, municipalities in Serbia. Unfortunately, after October 5th, we increased that imbalance. He is now, according to some calculations, 1:15, 1:20. The problem is addressed by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In its strategic documents, first of all Mr. Dacic and Mr. Vucic pointed out the problem, but what is the fact, it is that in just five to ten years, we have estimated, with this kind of abandonment of the village, emptying the village, we will have about 1,200 empty villages in Serbia, without residents. Who in empty villages will deal with agricultural production is the answer that should be given by the state. If there are about 4,400 settlements in Serbia that belong to rural areas, that means we will lose close to a quarter of the place in Serbia. This has a terrible impact on both the country's security and the country's economy. Farmers simply expect each government to make one radical turn for the better. What you ministers need to fight as a resolute minister in this government is that, since the EU pays the most attention to agriculture in the common agricultural policy, simply fight to draw attention to all ministers and prime ministers for the alarming state, above all, in demographics and in Serbian agriculture, on problems, on property delicacy, non-insulation, age of machinery, the absence of agricultural cooperatives. I have asked the ministers five times when the law on cooperatives, which, above all, concerns agriculture and cooperatives, will mean that there is no organised production of organised purchases, organised processing, etc. We got an answer that it was going to be in March last year, so it's going to be this year. There is still no law, and farmers, since Serbia's cooperative has a long tradition, over 130 years, and since we had about three and a half thousand agricultural cooperatives in Serbia at the beginning of World War II, and the cooperative has now completely died, there is only something to do with certain associations of citizens, which are based on the Law of Association of Citizens and on the basis of the citizens' self-initiative, but in this part of the state must make one turn forward. We all probably agree that due to this lack of respect, first of all, the strategy for the development of agriculture, agriculture in a really very poor state, that technologically lagging, that the yields are very weak, given our potential, that poor control of agricultural production, that many production, first of all, is around fruit seed material, in the gray zone, that there is no adequate control of imports and exports of preparations, chemicals, fertilisers, that no sufficiently needed standards are applied in production and agricultural production, etc. The problems of agricultural production in Serbia have not arisen since yesterday. These are decades of problems, and they are somehow the problems that each pre-election campaign has been presented by almost the representatives who have made future governments always present themselves as problems to be solved, etc. I remember in the 2008 campaign, when we promised farmers that they would have 100 euros in subsidies per hectare of a farmland, believe that no one believed us. Everyone was talking, but that's what everybody said, no idea, that's what the state would never do. Then somehow the government fought for it. Later these subsidies also increased to 13-14 thousand per hectare. After that, a law was passed that we criticised, 50 euros per hectare of arable land, which really cannot contribute to the competitiveness of our agricultural production. What we stand for and we know that the problem is always money, but somehow there are priorities, and it seems to us that investment in agriculture is the most profitable, and secondly, investment in food production, in the survival of people in the country, the increase in the yield of our largest agricultural branch is absolutely profoundly justified. That's why, you ministers, you should alert the government to a very difficult condition. It must never be made of makeup. I also expected from you, in your opening statements, that you, as minister, say most of what I said and most of the problems that the other MPs pointed out. We can hide in front of reality, but she's who she is. We won't achieve anything today if we praise the normatively good solution of a law, if our situation on the ground is different. Folkly speaking, the operation was successful, the patient died. That's why I'm saying, not that this relationship is our personal to you, this is our relationship to agriculture. It seems to me that it is the obligation of all the MPs to make a reality that is not made up or represented otherwise. I don't know, the farmers who are watching this transmission right now, and if they listen to the nice words about how we are good, how it's all going in the right direction, how we're getting better every year, and they're getting worse, they're going to say -- wait, there's some disagreement between the situation in agriculture and what's being said in the National Assembly. That's why I'm saying, I think your task is quite difficult. To be fair, the inherited situation cannot be blamed by any minister who has arrived, but what is the minister's task, it is to bring the situation into line. We have largely brought our Agriculture Development Strategy into line with EU legislation in the normative part, but we do not have a constant increase in the agrarian budget. There are always priorities, and every minister struggles to get as much as possible for his portfolio. What I kept pointing to Mr Dinkic, when he ran a portfolio of finance and businesses, I said, come on, do a simple analysis, you gave 10 euros in subsidies for one job. Let's just do a serious analysis, if you put that much into one agricultural land, what the result would be, what the effects would be. I know we don't have enough money, but I still think, and that's what everyone who deals with this problem thinks, that money can always be fairer, better, smarter to deploy and invest. Mr Dinkic told me several times – it's a very nice thinking, great, we'll do an analysis, it's serious thinking. The analysis has never been made, and farmers say – if a factory with 100 employees per 10,000 euros was given per employee, that so much has been invested in one agricultural household, or 10,000 euros, the effects would have been much better. What is also the task of both states and local self-government, is investing in infrastructure, which will benefit all farmers. The state has made an appointment in that part. I'm going to make an example of Slovenia again. Gardens in the village, electricity everywhere three-phase, asphalt, water, post office, infirmary, renovated homes of culture. Ljubljana lost 30,000 inhabitants, moved to local towns, enjoyed being in the countryside this afternoon, enjoyed the environment, worked in the morning, satisfied everyone. What is the point of the EU? A balanced development of Europe, and within one country a balanced development of all its parts, and first aid to the most vulnerable. Who's our most endangered man today? Many are at risk, but agriculture is in an alarmingly difficult state. When you visit, and we are all often in the field in Serbian villages, everyone says – do you see that there will be no soul here in five, ten years? The state has to do something about it. The fiscal council, when it analysed in one chapter the demographic situation in Serbia, pointed to the extreme dramatic state. That's why, I say, we won't have a problem supporting what we really need to support, but the question is, what will the effects of all this be? What you have to fight for, and I've criticised your predecessor for reducing subsidies, the farmers just got a little flight, the state said right away – we have a shortcut to invest, we can't give that much to you, 50 euros in a few years will be completely almost unscathed. It is, if looked at along the way and the state of machinery, if the average tractor is 25, 30 years old, the rest of the machinery is very old, not going into step with the latest technological development, etc., then the perspectives of agriculture are quite dreary. Of course, I won't finish my discussion with total pessimism. And it's not pessimism either, this is, in my humble judgment, one picture of the real situation, which we can if we analyze every particular area still develops, but I think the general assessment is that and that no one in the National Assembly can convince me of anything different. That's why we think it's really high time that that strategy, to which we have a lot to object, applied consistently, that all the laws and action plans were implemented in time and that we finally went from a dead spot up and not down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13985	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Gordana Comic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13986	Thank you. My presentation, which I hope to earn your attention, will be based on the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. During the debate, my colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, will also act on other laws of this joint principle debate. So why the Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund? By listening carefully to Minister Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic, we could write down that the intention of this law is to raise the quality of the programme, to raise management expertise, to compensate for the absence of control in the protection of the fish fund and to establish a much better control of the overall sustainable use of the fish fund. I've got two of the biggest regrets about all of this. In order for this to be fulfilled, why is the law without a budget fund? The previous draft and the bill meant the budget fund, and I firmly stand at the view that it is needed in this law, for the simple reason that in the budget fund, it means a position in the programme budget, which we will see as a proposal for 2015, you see exactly, under the circumstances, the colour of the dinar. If you want a fund, that's fine, but he's got a slightly different structure and he needs to be in line with the Fund Act. We don't think it's simply going to be seen in the reality of the intention that's spoken here, which is ethical, but which will remain intent, because the funds that are collected from both fees and penalties need, by the idea of the law, to be invested in the protection, promotion and development of the fish fund. Without a budget fund designed to see what is the amount of money or without a clear programming budget, it will hardly be realised, and to our common damage. That's why I think it was necessary to think twice before deciding to remove the budget fund from the draft law of Article 8. The second objection is that it remains unclear why no competitions under the existing law were called, whatever his shortcomings were. Are there any special circumstances waiting for competitions to be opened next year and what is the current situation with those who are users of fishing waters and, by now, the current law? These are two main remarks, with the responsibility of having the Minister share insufficient control with us, we share, at least we members of the Committee on Environmental Protection, just as much as representatives of the Ministry who are competent to enforce the law. Why was this control not as a supervisory and control role of the National Assembly more powerful, more efficient, more effective? Perhaps this bill from that draft, as the idea to completely amend the existing law, would be better. We should learn something from this and we who, in any committee, should control the application of the law and those who are competent to do it better, so that we do not have, as an explanation of the law, are not successful under this so far to control. There are mechanisms in it, but that control didn't happen. That's what the fragileness of the rule of law is. In addition to these two main remarks, as a grudge to the overall text of the law, I will refer to several members of the law that I consider controversial or which certainly deserve a question and hope for an answer from Minister Snježana Boskovic Bogosavljevic. The first is linked to the lack of the budget fund already said, and that is Article 7 of the Law, with the rubrum - compensation for the use of the fishing area. It is said that the fishing area is subject to the use of compensation, and the fee for the use of the fishing area is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the territory of the Autonomous Region, so the income of the Autonomous Region budget and determines the amount of this fee, but if you do not have a budget fund, you will hardly be able to get this money, realistically, to schedule what the idea of the law is intended for, and that is an improvement. The temporary concession of the fishing area is a member of the law which underlines my second critical remark on the law, which is that the fishing area which is not subject to use by competition or withdrawn, the minister in the territory of the Autonomous Region, the competent circuit body, temporarily consents to use without competition by a company, a public undertaking or another legal entity that meets the requirements of Article 6, which I have asked the question - what has not been the competition for the third year? Exceptionally, from Article 1(1) of this Article, ‘in order to prevent or eliminate damage to fishing waters or fish stocks, that is to say, to take urgent measures to protect the fish fund or to end the already taken, a period of temporary concession may be extended to another year, on which the decision is taken by the Minister as well’. Why is that so controversial? Therefore, the use of fishing areas is a very sensitive thing, such as a network and a business branch, and sustainable use of resources and the direct sector of environmental protection and conservation of biodiversity of the water itself and of what is the environment. As much as the law required to be with the competition, means with full control of whoever the minister is giving to use this particular fishing area, however drawn, you now suddenly have a temporary, no competitions, the minister's decision, which can still be extended for a year. Such a member of the law is not good in any law, and it should either be very well explained or kept to its application. If we're going to keep ourselves applicable, if it's intended to be just in exceptional cases, then it's a solution that shouldn't have been in the law. Article 11 is controversial in its second position. There's a rubrum - guarding the fishing area, and it's about education and conditions for someone to be a fisherman. In that position, 2 states: “The protection of the fishing area is carried out by a person who is employed indefinitely with the user, who has acquired fourth-degree education, has passed a professional examination and a license for the fisherman” and this second part of the position reads: “and who is not convicted of any of the criminal offences as a member of an organized criminal group, crimes against the economy, crimes against the environment, criminal acts of taking or giving bribes and criminal acts of fraud. ” This attitude requires an answer. What led the legislator to choose these five crimes? If he beat up a woman, then he could be a fisherman? If he occasionally steals in the village, in amounts of up to 10,000 dinars, he can be a fisherman? If he committed a crime of robbery on sports grounds, then he could be a fisherman? It is not good to single out the criminal acts of the Criminal Code, as specifically stated in the law, and that it applies to the qualification of fishermen, or you have to give a very good explanation why these very few crimes, not the crimes of domestic violence or the crime of inflicting serious physical harm or the crime of endangering traffic safety. What led you to choose these very crimes? In connection with the observations and questions and inconsistencies of Article 11 it is also a member of Article 14 with the peripheral – the powers of the fishermen, who, in point 4 of this Act, prescribes that the fisherman photograph and record illicit actions and persons involved in fishing water or in its immediate vicinity. The point has a problem with other laws that apply in Serbia's legal system. Anyone who submits an appeal to the Constitutional Court or at least one who follows consent with the Constitution and other laws will demand that this be deleted from the law. By law, which is in force, you must not photograph without permission of the person. The argument that it is a criminal offence cannot be done without a previous procedure, as you cannot listen without a previous procedure. Is it a slip, a mistake? It happens. So this is my question. I am someone who is very committed and sustainable to using the fish fund and keeping the treasure we have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and no one would be happier than me to see photographs of someone so inhuman to their own habitat that it destroys the fish fund by electricity, chemical means or whatever, by explosive means. No one would be happier than me, but if that's in an unauthorized way compared to the regulations that apply in other laws, then I have to ask you - what will be and whether exactly this point has been clarified, so that, in the case of a court case, what is in this law, which I stand for, that all villains, that I may be used this metaphorical word, according to the environment, to be rejected. For someone will say, "It has been obtained in an unauthorized manner." In connection with the lack of clarity in the law, as far as the budget fund is concerned, how are you going to know the purpose of the dinars, why hasn't the control been done and why haven't the competitions been called in the past three years? Why was only a set of five types of criminal acts chosen by the fishermen, why did the authorities of the fishermen remain to photograph, which cannot be compared to other laws? Afterwards, he is a member of the 16th and before Article 41, with the rubrum – damage compensation. I'll read all four of this attitude with, again, a request to give me an answer to what I'm reading, leaves me no doubt, no doubt, and what I find necessary to clarify. Therefore, Article 16 speaks of compensation for damages and says, in the first position - legal entity, entrepreneur or natural person who performs fishing, contrary to the provisions of this law or otherwise harms the Fish Fund, it is necessary to compensate that damage to the user of the fishing area, at the request of the user. This attitude is complicated already. Second, the claim for compensation is submitted by the user in accordance with this law to the person found to have caused damage to the Fish Fund. Is that a lawsuit, is it a court, or an administrative procedure? The third position - the user is obliged to receive funds on the basis of the compensation of the damage referred to in Article 1, dedicated use for the protection and promotion of the Fish Fund, which is reported by the Ministry, i.e. by the competent regional authority. Why if it's a lawsuit? If it's not a lawsuit, it's an administrative procedure. Then whoever decided in the administrative procedure knows what the funds are for. The last position – the minister prescribes a way of determining and the amount of compensation done to the Fish Fund. We therefore return to the first point, that what the minister has prescribed, the user should then submit as a claim to the one who has done the damage, and the one who has done the damage should, in the amount the minister has determined, make compensation for it, but so that the recipient of the compensation is obliged to be used for the purposes of improving the Fish Fund. This member is not related to the criminal provisions. At least I can't find a connection. That's why I'm asking because it's important. It's very important, because it's about damage compensation, and I don't deny the possibility at all, on the contrary, because there's a debate, that I don't see what this member is related to, the attitude by attitude, because I don't see him in the violation provisions, I don't see him in economic approaches, I don't see him in logic from the first to the fourth position. I think it's necessary to make it clear to everyone who's making up for the damage, in what procedure, who's getting paid, who's making a decision on the amount of damage, if someone's done any damage on the fishing territory? The last member I wish to comment on is a member of 41 who, before that, members 22 to 38 in the chapter – the preservation and protection of the Fish Fund, are well, clearly, applicable and without leaving out any necessary points, all members relating to the conservation and protection of the Fish Fund. They're not the only ones. Most members are such that it is very easy to monitor the intention and to see a professional, professional and dedicated hand to the one who reads about sustainable use and about the protection of the Fish Fund, except for this inadequacy that I therefore present in order not to harm these otherwise well-written members of the law who treat other topics rather than sustainable use. Before moving to Article 41, only a small note of rubrum – saving fish from the flooded area and Article 28. This article is extremely important, and I can remind you of the common tragedy that we witnessed, in May of this year and never given a report of what happened to diversity, what was the amount of application in the prototype, what happened to the fish fund, that I'm not talking about harmful substances that we need without interpreting to read about what was in the mud, what was 10 centimeters of mud, what was on the 14th, what was in the body of biodiversity itself, and these are things that are waiting for us, given climate change, and I think this is something that needs to be paid special attention in the future. Article 41 is the last one I will comment on in the debate in principle. It's a recreational fishing permit. I will remind everyone that this law also follows a solution adopted by the Constitutional Court, in the form of a grand council, which has initiated a procedure to determine the unconstitutional nature of Article 39(2). The Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, in a section that reads - with a member fishing organisation. The Constitutional Court estimated that a solution from the now applicable law under which permission is issued for the entire territory of Serbia, so for recreational fishing throughout the territory cannot be issued by local self-government since it is in conflict with the constitutional guarantee that you can have business activities in the whole territory of Serbia. I understand that this decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 is one of the direct motives to change the way in which the license for recreational fishing is issued. I would not like to repeat, but my colleague, Arpad Fremond of the SVM parliamentary group has offered a compromise solution which does not endanger the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2012 and I will support it because it has the awareness that it has a number of recreational fishermen, us who have since we remember for ourselves, so we remember both water and fish and desire to be kept, to be promoted, to be protected and enjoyed under principle – kiss and release, because it is recreational fishing, except in exceptional conditions when you have to boast about the environment, to take pictures, if anything else. So we must also have understanding for people who want to have their fishing tendencies close to their habitat, but also 100, 200 or 300km away, in beautiful fishing territories of Serbia. I think that the amendment tabled by a colleague from the SVM parliamentary group is appropriate and that you should really consider adopting such an amendment or, as it is already going according to the habit of being in agreement with the committee, so that some common period is adopted. My intention was nothing but the best solutions. Knowing how the process was going when the current law was passed, I remember that the focus of the debate was then on the training of fishermen, especially recreational fishermen, on resisting all of us who live for fishing, who consider it one of the top human activities, to commit to learning in front of some, with someone about fishing, no matter what kind of water and in which part, Serbia's corner was engaged in fishing. There was resistance, and here's where education is now mentioned. What I'd like to see is that this kind of education is part of our education system, whether it's children who will grow up to be fishermen or not, because it's not an education how to be the best fisherman on the bent, but it's an education of how to respect water and biodiversity in that water. Will one of us who has a chance to show it to him, then decide to deal with recreational, sports, or economic fishing, on this point we do not decide to make a commitment by law to this kind of education. There's nothing worse than having no awareness of how much and how valuable clean water is, and if river water is second-class, clean bar water, purer deader, ponds that can be built and which can represent income to the user and what a blessing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13987	Mrs. Comic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13988	... a good, healthy fish fund. That's why my remarks and request for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13989	I let you finish your sentence, but he's excused a minute already. Thank you. The word is by MP Djordje Stojsic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear government representatives, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit paradoxical that two laws, such as regulation of the fish fund and funding in the area of agriculture, are formed into a joint proposal, given that what is common to them is hunting in the blurry and fishing stories. Before each election, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, paori, farmers, whatever you call them today, listen to these fishing stories about how agriculture is our big chance and how the state will make sure that better conditions are created for doing the same, especially in a situation where the only branch of economy in which we have surpluses. Hunting in a blur is also an aspect when we talk about financing agriculture, but I don't want to go on about it. As regards the intensity of the legislators of this law, we welcome it, of course, since for many decades there has been a need to create conditions in order to enable the financing of agricultural production, which requires large capital investments and a long return to investment. There are, of course, solutions in more developed capitalist countries and some of them have been implemented with us, and it concerns public warehouses and that at the beginning of the year you can broadcast securities of value, or sell or buy so-called. Fuchers and then practically knock on the price of your product so you won't be able to finance it. The Law on Public Storages has made it possible to some extent, and this is a law that also relies on that matter. What is extremely important is that we know that the entire empires were created to finance agricultural production, because for 20 years we have had famous parities where farmers get oil, seeds, fertilisers, and then in the harvest they are obliged to return a certain amount of agricultural products and prices compared to those that are harvested and those that are six months later are usually two, or double, and that is where many have become rich. We are pleased that the country is finally paying attention to this aspect, especially in a situation where farmers today pay extremely high interest on agricultural loans. It's between 10% and 20% in the banking sector, because these loans, although the number of non-performing loans is extremely low, remain the interest rates are extremely high. As far as LSV is concerned, we have proposed some solutions and what is logically imposed is that if there can be a national corporation to secure housing loans, let's say, why can't there be some kind of guarantee fund that would secure loans in agriculture? You in the budget co-finance, let's say, interest on commercial banks although, if you were to just manage the risks properly, the guarantee fund could practically do the same thing, which would drastically bring down the interest that farmers receive if such a fund guaranteed to commercial banks for these loans. Such a model already exists in residential loans. The other resource we have also mentioned several times is state agricultural land. I think it is the largest resource that was absolutely untapped on the basis of 400,000 to 500,000 hectares of agricultural land, which could be collateralised, then issued securities of value and, on that basis, collected about 500 million to a billion euros and also directed towards financing agriculture. It's just some of our proposals, but so far for some reason we haven't come to understand, probably because the minister in charge of agriculture has changed every year. We simply assume that from the current obligations and the ceasefire, you can't even manage to deal with such important strategic issues, which we think is a great shame, because you in agriculture can't even analyze and see the situation unless that period is five or ten years old. The farmers know that very well. As far as this particular bill is concerned, we have two problems with this, and it concerns the right of the stockholder's agricultural products, where it is said that there is a legal right on all agricultural products held by the stockholder at the place of production, regardless of culture and variety. In the amount of value, it's enough to settle a claim has arrived. This is Article 26. Another member, who is also a problem for us, is Article 31, where it is said – if in the out-of-court public sale procedure, the stockholder suffers damage because of the sale procedure for the payment of claims only then he can address the court and sue. In our view, this is what puts the lender in a difficult financial position in an unequal relationship with the one whose supply is being given, and I think there are few farmers who will be able to hire legal aid, or lawyers, so that they can continue to sue someone who could potentially cheat on them. These are the two problems we have regarding this law, and because of that, we will not vote for it unless these members change. As for other legislative proposals, my colleague will talk about the fish fund, and I would especially welcome the final ratification of the agreement concerning the regulation of the Sava River stream, as I come from local self-government, specifically from Sremska Mitrovica, where we had a major problem last year with the Sava River and precisely because there was no coordination with the countries, and here I think of BiH and Croatia, there were major problems. River streams don't know the limits. They're very pro-European, so to speak, and I think we've had a chance to find out in a very bad way what can happen if there's no co-operation between countries through which, in this particular case, Sava flows, as far as the floods are concerned. In any case, I hope that the potential changes to this proposal for a law relating to the financing of agricultural production will be seen, and as regards the Agreement on the regulation of the Sava River stream with the countries of the region, we will, of course, vote on this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13991	Thank you, Mr. Stojsic. The word is by MP Vojislav Vujic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13992	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I may not be the most competent for this topic in front of the JS parliamentary group, and unfortunately I think that a very small number of agricultural producers has been represented in the National Assembly of RS. I can point out and commend the Committee on Agriculture, which has been working very actively in recent months, and this shows their average session, which is about four hours a session. One of us has so far been a recognizable agricultural producer, our colleague Marijan Rističević. What we have heard so far from distinguished colleagues of senior political parties who have had the opportunity to reach out so far is a large number of facts. Of course, it's all the right things and the things that we like and the ones that we like less and, above all, you who sit here in front of us are the ones who need to understand these problems and offer us certain solutions, and we can possibly fix them and help them vote. Today, there are four laws ahead of us, and the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all four laws. What I'm going to focus on is the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. As you said in your explanation today, this is a model that has been applied so far, and very successfully, in Brazil, in Ukraine, in Russia, and we are the first country in the environment to apply something similar in our space. It is certainly good that something is done, it is evident that the law has its own qualities, and it has been in preparation for nearly three years, meaning that it has been done thoroughly and seriously. The situation in which our agricultural producers are present today is not so great, not only because the conditions of lending have been difficult so far, but also the reasons why these loans had to be used by agricultural producers. The question is, what do you put there in the first place? The fact that this machinery park that is in agricultural land, the average agricultural land is over 25 years old is one of the reasons why we may not be more competitive with the price without talking about where the machinery parks are as old as the exploitation of such machines is more difficult compared to all those competing countries in an environment that have the opportunity to access agricultural production with modern machinery. One of the problems is certainly property relations when it comes to the holdings where agricultural production is taking place and perhaps it is the most important moment of this law, what you spoke of by the minister, which is the moment that with changes, i.e. With such a bill, farmers will not have to mortgage the real estate they have or put into any law, but will create the possibility that in the plan, in their business plan with the planned finished final product they are about to provide a guarantee for the payment of such loans. That's a good thing. What is interesting for all of us who are involved in politics and the story about which we from the United Serbia are very often propagating such a story, which is that you and the Ministry are not the only ones in charge of the organisation of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, but local self-government representatives can also do so, meaning both the mayors and the presidents of municipalities. One such mayor who focused on concrete proposals and measures precisely on agricultural producers is Mr. Dragan Markovic, who you know that on two occasions local self-government has divided the heifers, so they have restored the cattle stock in the territory of the city of Jagodina and have repeatedly led different delegations of farmers to Europe, to see how it is done in Europe, to see what it is that awaits us in the future and that they can compare this work and some of their plans to target exactly the experiences they can get from such travels. It should be one signal to everyone who is involved in politics, again, at a local level, to help as much as they can. When it comes to you from the Ministry, someone said you had a good chance, and I say you have a good chance and maybe it's a good time. We failed, you failed, and some of you before you designed a new model to help agricultural holdings both in production and in the placement of finished products. I think we've had a good model in history, it's an example of cooperatives that worked perfectly. To me, since I'm of these younger generations, it's not exactly the clearest reason why it broke up with such a good practice, but I don't think it's too late, in fact, I think it's the right time to right now to help bring one such modeality back to life and that farmers have someone who's in direct contact with them, which would be these farming cooperatives, so they'd take care of the loans, but in a different way. It doesn't have to be money every time, it can be a large number of products that in compensation we would return to agricultural landowners, starting with seeds, oil derivatives, and maybe even those machines and equipment. Of course, as security for placement, it would be this ransom mechanism, which cooperatives in direct contact with all of them could accomplish. I listened to stories about "Genex" and similar companies that once united all these cooperatives and eventually bought from them everything they could offer, they placed it in the world and made it possible for our stock reserves never to be questioned, that they would not risk filling with such foods. I tell you once again, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support all four laws, and I ask that one of these proposals that I have made, most of all with a return to the functioning of the agricultural cooperative, come forward in some future period ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13993	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Senic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13994	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in my discussion, I will mainly deal with the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production or, as the Minister said, the law on pre-financing, only that I would give that name a little different. In accordance with what the law contains, I'd rather call it the farmer's debt slavery law or the tycoon protection law in agriculture, or perhaps the greening law in agriculture, if you prefer. Such a bill puts debtors in a subordinate position and creates a visible possibility of exploiting the state of emergency of agricultural producers. When I read the law and wanted to write amendments, I wanted to propose for each amendment to be deleted, but since this is not a constructive proposal and since I don't think it's any use to appeal to withdraw such a bill, I want to explain to the citizens and farmers who are watching what this law will do as of 1 March 2015. The idea of introducing a pre-financing system is great and should exist in our legislative system, but the law is written in such a way that, with the announced reduced subsidies or the establishment of conditions that our agricultural producers cannot meet, our producers will be forced to borrow and to place a mortgage as a rule. So, what's said to be no more mortgages, it's only one option, but of course every trustee will seek a mortgage as a means of security. The law does not provide for an obligation to secure crops, and we know that for more than two years, especially in the last two years, protection from the city in our country is not working at all. Then we come to the conclusion that Article 6 provides that the contract cannot be changed because of the changed circumstances, as well as that the agricultural producer or debtor cannot call for circumstances that he could not prevent, remove or avoid, in fact to call for a higher force, as well as circumstances why he did not respond, i.e. the inability to fulfil the contractual obligation. On the one hand, let's give the agricultural producers or, rather, we can get them in charge, and then if the floods happen, the city or droughts don't have the right to change the contract, ask for a delay in fulfilling the obligation. Before that, they put a mortgage on their property and remain without their land. Article 8 provides that the debtor is obliged to allow the execution of contractual obligations to be controlled. What does that control mean? What can be under control? Does this mean that he can, for example, go into his house, write things down, disturb his private life, which is insane, we agree? Nowhere is it specified what it means to control the execution of contractual obligations. What if this enforcement control implies that, for example, every 15 days, price changes on the stock market are due to a new income projection or a new business plan? Who will allow our farmers, for example, for a month, or for three months, or for 15 days, because it is not precise, to make such a business plan that will satisfy the creditors? I'm just talking about possible abuses due to the inaccuracies of legal provisions. The financing contract shall be entered in the register, but no interest shall be entered. So, of all the elements of the financing contract, to be clear, the financing contract is the loan contract, the most important element of the loan contract, after who is the lender and the borrower, is interest. Why doesn't only interest of all the elements of the financing contract be entered in the register? Well, because interest will be fabulous. That's why, in my opinion, this greening law in agriculture, because conditions are being created to simply cut off an incredible interest rate, and we ourselves know that an effective interest rate is currently on agricultural loans in our country about 30% on an annual basis. Article 13 provides for a reduction of the claim without the consent of the debtors. We have a similar provision in the Bond Relations Act, but it is important that our farmers know that their claims, i.e. their debt may be settled without their consent, that they no longer owe to the bank or the company they are in charge of, but that their trustee settles his claim. In Article 16 of the pledge on future products, which is a new, extraordinary category and concept, but poorly defined, it also contains elements of rights and obligations relating to the collection, storage and storage of future agricultural products. What does that mean? This means that due to the state of emergency in which a farmer is located, he may be forced to, for example, pay his own harvest or harvest in his field, because he simply has to agree to that contractual obligation. And what I think is the biggest scandal in this law, if a debtor who is a farmer does not fulfil his obligation under contract, is translated into a passive status in the register of agricultural holdings. So the state automatically interferes in the market, regulates the relationship between market participants by dissuading one side. First it reduces subsidies, and then it says -- and it's a little bit of a subsidy that we can give you we won't give you unless you deprive your trustee. Why is it not an obligation for the trustee, for example, to pay for the products he took from the farmer? Do you know how much unpaid milk, sunflower, wheat and corn there is in Serbia, and you have no obligation in law to pay the trustee an extra product, and you have provided that you translate agricultural land into passive status if he does not settle his obligations under the financing agreement? Passive status arises by informing the Ministry that the debtor has failed to fulfil the obligation. Are you aware of how much abuse there might be? Article 17 provides that future agricultural products over which the stock is established contain all data other than the most important one, which is the guaranteed price. In the previous two years, when we had a problem with the purchase of sunflowers, when the ministry is in more than the same composition, except for changing ministers, there have been various recommendations for our agricultural producers how to negotiate the production of sunflowers, how to ask for a guaranteed price and how to simply behave in that competition, you do not now give them support in such a way that the law will be incorporated into the obligation to negotiate the guaranteed price of the product. Why isn't it in the law, when you've already spoken and advised our farmers to always negotiate and demand that agricultural production contracts guarantee prices? Another type of discrimination of debtors – extrajudicial settlement. The trustee can make an out-of-court public sale, with the sale not being stopped or filed. Therefore, it is impossible to state even a temporary measure by the court, unless a public document is brought before it should be made out by a trustee who, of course, will not if he has some bad intentions. As proof of the fact that this is a law on the protection of tycoon in agriculture, I also state that it does not apply to livestock, for example, to livestock, because we currently have tycoons interested in agricultural land. First, they want to reach their agricultural land through mortgages and various borrowings from agricultural producers. So if we want to raise livestock production, I don't know why this law doesn't apply to livestock production. Debt waiver can also be seen in Articles 12 and 18. For example, in Article 12, the trustee shall make changes to the data referred to in Article 1 including amendments to the data relating to the description of the debtor's obligation or the settlement of this obligation. But that's why changing the data from Article 1 to Article 1 can also be done by a debtor based on the written consent of the trustee. How are they not equal? If one can perform, why does another need the consent of this first, when they are equal, i.e. At least they should be equal market participants? We have made some suggestions through amendments, but this law is impossible to fix with amendments. We have proposed that the financing agreement can also define the period of payment, the number of wars, the date of maturity, provided that contracts are paid to wars, and the reason is very simple. As for this, let's say, plant production and we have a situation that we mainly have two harvests, in July of wheat, in August and September of mainly corn and sunflowers, why it's not possible to predict that one war is paid for, for example. in July and the second in October and thus facilitate the service of debtors' obligations? So we also predicted amendments to the debtor, i.e. the agricultural producer may mainly call for circumstances which he could not prevent, remove and avoid in the midst of more force, as well as circumstances for which he does not respond, therefore, because of the inability to fulfil the obligations. If you're really saying, since I expect my speech to be followed by the denial of all this I said, that it's not the tycoon law and it's not the greening law in agriculture, prove to us that on the website of your ministry you're going to publish the contract register, that everything is public and transparent, and that you know who the contract is, under what conditions and with whom. So, we have provided for an amendment to make the register public and be available on the Ministry's website. Also, this law does not contain any sanctions, we have provided that if an abuse is committed under Article 12 that unless the trustee issues, because it is intended to issue without delay, but does not say what if it does not issue consent under Article 12(3). We've provided for sanctions and provided for penalties for irresponsible conduct and attempted abuse. Here, I want to look back at the entire situation in our agriculture and the use of IPAR funds because these funds can largely replace the funds that our farmers will provide through borrowing. So in March 2013, we had an announcement that Serbia would apply for 10m euros from IPAR funds by July 2013. In July, the European Commission informed us that the application had nothing to do with it. We got an explanation that this is because Serbia wasn't transferred from Annex B to Annex A, which is total nonsense. I'm asking you, is the Agrarian Payments Authority accredited to use and control funds from the IPAR fund or not? It's a first and basic prerequisite for using funds. This Annex B to Annex A, etc., it can be a blur of reality, but it is essential to respond to when the Agrarian Payments Administration will be accredited for the use and control of funds from the IPAR Fund. Finally, I want to address our citizens especially farmers, since this law will clearly be passed, as of March 1st, take care of what you sign, read what is written in small letters, and if you can in any way do not mortgage on your property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13995	Thank you, Mr. Senic. Dear Members of the People, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the First Belgrade High School who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Please welcome the guests. We're going back to work. The word has been given by the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13996	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable minister, the minister, respected guests, respected citizens of Serbia, it is difficult for me to perform after a previous speaker who is a great expert on agriculture, and when he has seen agricultural cultures, we can discuss this. It is very difficult to speak, for there is a proverb in our people “I will not speak as I will. ” With some remarks and questions from the previous speaker, I can agree, but all these questions were to be referred to themselves. He should have referred these questions to Mr Petrovic. He should have referred these questions to Mr. Tadic. He should have referred these questions to Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic. All the questions he's asked, I'm asking him because the Agricultural Production Funding Act is so-called. The law on harvest financing written at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012. I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture if what I'm saying is true. Whether the public debate was held in February 2012, and the former chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management who spoke before me was obviously so qualified that he did not know that his party had written the law. However, he changed three parties in two years so he doesn't remember which party he was in 2012. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs now know what a hypocrisis is. My dear farmers, all the questions raised about this law should be asked to the previous regime. Perhaps the responsibility of the current government for accepting that it does not change the law proposed by the former regime. The law uses terms: greening law, tycoons law, the biggest scandal law. My dear farmers, I advise you to be careful what you sign in the future since this bill has been written by the former regime. I'm asking all my colleagues to tell me which tycoon came from 2012, to this day. We only have those found. Whether in any party is the financial director of the tycoon who bought three sugars for three euros. The bill was indeed written by the former regime where the dominant party was the one where the tycoon now involved in sugar production bought sugars for three euros at the time of being the party's financial director. I know that my previous speaker is an expert in construction, so let me know who from the current government, who from fellow MPs made a pen house, who from fellow ministers and MPs made a pasture building? We know that among the members of the regime there are those good agricultural policy players who have experience with pastures. They saw that it wasn't worth it, so instead of being a stock fund, they decided to build a building, and there's a whole floor in that building. I don't see that there are such tycoons among us here in today's government and in the parties that support today's government. So everything that's been said about this law may be true, but it speaks for the previous regime. If there is advice to farmers on this law, I believe that those who wrote this law know best how they wrote it and perhaps there is a great chance that it tends more to the tycoons, that it is more to the benefit of tycoons than to the benefit of agricultural producers. Knowing them should be extremely careful about this matter since they know best what they wrote in that law. It's almost amazing to write one law in 2011, to conduct a debate in February 2012, and then attribute all the shortcomings of that law to someone who let their law into the procedure, believing that they were responsible enough. Dear colleagues and colleagues today I was entering the building again remembering that the villagers and the village were the source of the statehood of this country. I passed Karadjord and in 2012 when I passed the first thing I saw, I saw a peasant leader, the symbol of a country in the Balkans of Karadjord Petrovic. He asks me, where is your village, where are your peasants, where did your stock fund disappear until 2012, where do you import 188,000 head of live pigs, mainly from Croatia? I was embarrassed. It's a congested condition. These others who brought us here obviously apply to them that Ducic's proverb – the bravest people in the world not because they're not afraid of anything but because they're not ashamed of anything. I was embarrassed, and apparently they weren't. Let's go in turn, spoke fellow opposition colleagues with whom I used to be together, peasants and workers of the 1990s dreamed of a dream of market economy and democracy. In the 1990s, we've torn up five or six ducks and freaks walking the streets to get our great political leaders into the castles, and workers and peasants stay on the street. They put themselves in castles, workers and peasants on the streets. They lived like a fairy tale, and the people lived like a bass. Today we listen to their tyrades and their objections to them alone. We thought in 2000, when we welcomed the changes, that everything that we had lost by financing social peace, bearing the burden of economic and military pressures to which the country had been exposed, which was outrageous until then in the world, we thought that the new power in 2000 would bring it back to us. We thought they'd give us back the land they took from us by pulling a mustache from 1945 to 1953. Together we used to fight with them that those rights, that this kidnapped property would be returned. Instead, the prime ministers entered these hijacked plots to create long-term plantings. And today someone's talking about tycoons. Yeah, we didn't believe that people who robbed money in the '90s, during sanctions, who used commercial smuggling to make huge money, would turn it into huge capital after 2000, much bigger than they had in the '90s. We were hoping that something would be returned to the village. Instead, it was continued to be taken away and taken away. I wasn't a communist. Communism wasn't my order. We were loyal to the state. I don't mind those who were, but I have to admit that we had one round model of agriculture, a system that worked. We had science. Here, Mr. Rajic, we've had institutes, warfare, livestock, vegetables. We've had the production of seed of fruit material, of dispersion, of our own. We had an independent system of agriculture, but all we needed was some oil. If we had made biodiesel, we wouldn't need that either. We had fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides. We had machinery production factories. We had storage capacity. We had cooperatives. We had processing facilities that now work with 30-40% capacity. We had it all. And then came the changes we all stood for. And that system that was functional was a wild predatory privatization broken. Wild, predatory capitalism that devoured living people, peasants, workers, incomes, wages. All this has been broken down to some to buy certain capacities for three times three euros, so that they can take the skin off people's backs. Yes, our agricultural system was more tycoon-friendly than manufacturers. I agree with that, but it is a product of previous agricultural policy, which was led in favour of buyers, shoppers, processors, for the benefit of consumers, in favour of an import-export lobby that has completely destroyed the livestock fund. We have three and a half million tons of extra corn today, more than our cattle eat. We have several hundred thousand tons of soda products, soy. We have several hundred thousand cattle flour. We have over four million tons of cattle food that can feed us and feed us another million tons of live scales. That's two billion worth. Those three and a half million tonnes of corn, four million total livestock products are worth no more than 500, 600m euros. If it was our cattle, if we had a stock fund that we didn't have, which was destroyed in favour of the import lobby, we could now produce a million tons, a billion pounds of meat, which would be worth two billion. It'd be worth three and a half, four billion. That's how they'd find a job for both peasants and workers. We also have processing facilities that work with 30-40% in the slaughterhouse industry. We've got extra livestock. We've got extra tow places, farms. We have 40,000 empty tovils more that we can use, but we lack a cattle fund that's crippled because of the import lobby, so that importers, tycoons, can make fat money, those on the import of everything and everything, and instead of filling farms, we've been filling oncology by importing meat of dubious quality, and then we've been able to make other tycoons who've been exporting corn and livestock food, and because of their profits of 50 million euros, we're losing two billion euros a year. Such a agricultural policy has been led, and that's why we're here where we are. Ducic said, "The worst thing is to be old, sick and poor." That's exactly what hit our village and our peasants. So they're old, sick and poor. The average age is 59 years in the country and the machinery is almost that old, everything destroyed. We dreamed of restoring agriculture in 2000. Instead, it is even more tarnished and even more ruined and those who took part in it, today they are preaching to those who under far more difficult circumstances, without selling social capital, donor support, etc., have to renew everything that has been ruined. Maybe our people remember for a little while. That's why I'm here to remind them that agriculture is basically destroyed, that if they wanted to destroy this much on purpose, I don't think they'd make it. By filling the pockets of the tycoon, they emptied the pockets of the peasants and we are now in a very difficult position. This is not just a matter of agriculture and rural development, this is today a question of Serbia's survival. So, 59 years old, we're emptying our territories, and at least we as a people, as a state, have experience that when some territories are emptied, they can be aggressive, they can belong to someone else. Some other nations will settle. This isn't a question of agriculture. This is a demographic issue of the survival of the Serbian state. The villagers built this country, according to both Karadjordje and Milos Obrenovic. Unsatisfactory, we import by fish today, we import fish for 100m euros. Everything's ruined, the ponds, the farms. We have the Fish Fund Act. Europeans eat 26kg of fish per capita, and we, seven kilograms and seven kilograms, import two thirds of them. We spend 100m euros on fish imports. We spent this year for the first eight months 35m euros more on imports of pigmeat than we exported, which means we don't have enough pigmeat for our own purposes. The agricultural policy of the previous regime was similar to that of planting the bead and waiting for the pig to sprout. That didn't happen and we're in trouble today. We will support as a parliamentary group all these laws. Mr Rajic, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, we are also asking as a Committee on Agriculture that subsidies are not reduced, can be re-allocated in favour of livestock, vegetables, fruit, to make a slight turn towards small and medium-sized agricultural land, which is also foreseen by the European standard from 2013 to 2020 as a medium of development to be supported. Since we have 650 thousand owners, I expect all of you to fight together in these difficult circumstances, and under the threat of the IMF's restriction, we are choosing to keep the 5% budget of the Agricultural Encouragement Act. We can and should redistribute it in favour of fruit growing, vegetables and livestock. We also demand changes in the Agricultural Land Act. We expect that the state, i.e. the ministry, has the right to issue from 100 to 140 thousand hectares of state agricultural land, to boost the livestock stock, to increase the right to buy cattle, as the current right of cross-referencing is mainly the redistribution of the livestock stock from one parcel to another. When a cattleman comes in, we expect the Ministry to build two types of typical farms, which local self-government must accept that it is built outside the village and in such a way that the Ministry helps directly whoever wants to deal with livestock, vegetables and fruit growing, acquire surfaces, models, and in such a way, out of 100,000 hectares in livestock, out of 30,000 hectares of modern orchards, which must be a condition for giving, that at 10,000 hectares in the vegetables, in the greenhouses that are still a little heated, every hectare can bring 100,000 euros in gross. Any hectare can hire ten workers. We can make over 800m euros in vegetables in this way. In the fruit industry, too, over 800m euros. In livestock and meat and milk production, we can make several hundred million more euros. We can physically without processing for the next five years in such a way as to make over two billion acres of land a gross domestic product from agriculture worth over two billion. This is what we expect of you both as farmers and as MPs and as members of the Committee representing the National Assembly in the area of agriculture, forestry and water industry. We will support all these laws. So I'm telling you, the Serbia we dream of is Serbia's field, Serbia's plum, Serbia's boys, girls, Serbia's workers and peasants. That's the Serbia we see. We're not interested in the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13997	Thank you. (Alexander Senic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Senic, on what basis? (Alexander Senic, from the post: He has repeatedly said "the previous speaker". There are several previous speakers. (Alexander Senic, from the place: If you will not give me your word, it is up to you.) We will enter some controversy without need. He was saying... (Alexander Senic, from the place: I speak to you. ) Here you go, Mr. Senic, I just don't know if it was about the previous speaker or if he was talking about pastures and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13998	If you listened carefully to the beginning of his exposure, I think it's very easy to conclude that he was talking about me. On that basis, I was looking for a replica. Since we all agreed here that the law is tycoon, and let me go back and write the bill at the end of 2011, in March 2012, I worked at the university as an assistant, I wasn't involved in politics, I wasn't involved in writing the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u13999	Mr. Senic, the presentation wasn't even that you wrote the law, but that the law was written at the time of the former, as the speaker said, in the regime. I mean, it's not worth the replica in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14000	No, I just want to say that it's tycoon, we all agreed here, but what's the essence, so the Assembly adopts the law, it doesn't matter who wrote it, it matters who adopted it. So if we said the law is tycoon, I call on the minister to withdraw the law, and make it the same, only much better, which will not be at the expense of agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14001	Mr. Senic, I don't think anyone agreed on whether the tycoon law is, but only the speaker said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14002	Now what do you think he said?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14003	... That if you say it's tycoon law, you wrote it as a former regime, not you personally, but someone from the former regime. Thank you. We are now moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a common principled single search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14004	This set of four laws, agreements and a framework agreement, the New Party MPs will support, will vote in favour. Two laws, the Act on the Protection of the Fish Fund and the Act on the Financing of Agricultural Production are of course more significant. The framework agreement should be signed, there is no doubt about the Sava, and of course the EUMESTAT co-operation agreement. These are things that, I think, there's no doubt about, nowhere in Serbia. As far as these two laws are concerned, the Act on the Protection of the Fish Fund is a better solution than the previous law with probably another flaw, which, hopefully, will be corrected in part by the amendments that some colleagues have submitted, partly by sublegal acts, partly through application and hopefully another amendment that will be, if necessary. As far as the Agricultural Production Financing Act is concerned, I think it's a good legal framework. He first appeared in our constitutional justice system, there is not much around Europe, but that doesn't mean it's a bad solution. Any doubt about whether it's tycoon or green or something, I don't think it's standing. This looks like, and I'm saying it looks like, because we're going to see how that goes, to one real market law. It's basically one, or the state gives one fully defined contract, that is, the framework of one contract between the two sides where there is a farmer, whether he's a natural person, whether the company, on the other hand, has money that wants to be placed in it, and it's called market production. If it's a tycoon, it's someone who does something against the law, and it belongs to him not in discussions in the Serbian Parliament, but in prison. This isn't the situation. Me and Mr. Pavicevic will support this law. I don't want to go into details, I think all the solutions are so that they can get a passing grade. The explanation, unlike many other laws that come to us for decision, is very substantive, broad, with all aspects necessary for one good reason. So you've got praise on that side. But while you're here, I think it's a good opportunity for me to give you one proposal, and I think that this proposal is good and that you need to respond positively to it, which is that the Serbian public, through you, and through some other ministries, find out how much money, funds, through various aspects of the promotion of agricultural production invested in agricultural production in Serbia in the last 10 years, let's say from 2004 to 2014. On the Internet, according to data I could find online, it's anywhere near or over three billion euros, somewhere from 275 million in 2004, I'm talking about Euros, over a minimum of 197 in 2005 and a maximum of 390 in this year, or something more than that. It's a huge amount of money. And it is necessary to invest in agriculture and there is no doubt there, but I think it is very important for the Serbian public, and especially for the MPs, to know what the effects of these investments are, where did these funds go? Who are the users of all these funds? I think it's good to have a joint report from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of the Interior. That the Ministry of Agriculture gave a report on who, when and for what purposes it received what funds, what resources for various incentives for agricultural production. That the Ministry of Agriculture should issue a report on the state of the goods reserves, warehouses in private, situations where some wheat is given, so mice eat wheat, then disappear, and the Ministry of the Interior to give their opinion for each subsidy whether it was legal or not. So either it's about subsidies or some other donations. It's easy to do, it's a table where first it would be the name of whoever got the money, whether it's a physical person, or if it's some company, how much money, when, under what conditions, for what purposes, your comment on whether it was successful, did it give effect to incentivizing something. As far as the stock reserves are concerned, as business is and whether there is something there that is a good incentive and the Ministry of Interior that will give about whether or not the investigation is being conducted, whether something has been ruled as a criminal act, it was probably such things, but it is good that the Serbian public, and above all MPs in this House, have a full picture of these three billion and almost 300 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14005	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic, for these suggestions. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14006	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as my colleague from the LSV Group has already announced, I will refer only to this Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund in my presentation. Namely, what I want to focus my discussion on in the time I have at my disposal is exactly Article 7 relating to fees for the use of the fishing area. Namely, there has been a change in this article compared to the current law, i.e. the suspension of the possibility of fees for the use of fishing grounds in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but also in general, in the whole territory of Serbia, in this case, when I talk about the AP Vojvodina, they are used through the Regional Budget Fund for the Protection of the Environment. I will remind you that in the still valid Article 6 that talks about fees for the use of the fishing area, the fees for the use of the fishing area are used for the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. the AP Vojvodina budget, but are used through the Regional, that is, the Republic's Budget Fund for the Protection of the Environment. One particular sentence for me at the end of this article – funds for the use of the fishing area are used for the protection, promotion and sustainable use of the fish fund. Unfortunately, this member has been changed in a new law. This sentence is eventually lost, and the fees are not collected, i.e. the budget fund for these needs has been shut down. I just want to point out that this fund has so far functioned in Vojvodina and how important it is to be dedicated. This Environmental Protection Fund at the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environment was available annually at around 24 million dinars. These were dedicated funds that have been used for five years to co-finance the programme of users of fishing areas in Vojvodina. More than 70 million dinars of fish water users for the four segment programmes have been placed so far. It is aimed at improving the work of the fish-guarding service, technical and material equipment of the users of fishing areas, fishing waters and revitalisation of fish habitats, i.e. water habitats that are the most endangered in Serbia. Given this, I must also point out that we are one of the few countries in the territory of Europe that does not cleanse wastewater and therefore our surface waters are extremely endangered and the question is, in such circumstances, how to develop this activity in a proper and quality way. I return to use on the territory of Vojvodina. This means that the funds invested have improved the management of fishing waters and reduced the negative impact on fishing waters and fauna waters. The users of the fishing waters were satisfied with the activities of the Secretariat, I speak exclusively in the territory of Vojvodina, because all the funds, according to the Fish Fund Act, were still valid, by which they were directed, unlike the users of fishing waters in other parts of Serbia, on the basis of the information we have, where the funds defined for these purposes are not being used properly. In addition, the Secretariat also assisted the Fund's resources and the managers of protected areas which, through the improvement of fishing habitats and water and the prevention of fishing, promoted both the general biodiversity and the natural values of these protected areas, were often of international importance, taking into account that these areas were declared protected areas and were assisted by operators who were also users of fishing waters. Citing the Ministry of Finance's opinion, which was under way to draft legislation, which included representatives of the Regional Secretariat, which only cited the need to review the existence of budget funds due to the obligation to move on to programme funding models, the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment has abolished the possibility of those funds being implemented through the Regional Budget Fund. We believe that the Ministry of Finance's position is not contrary to the current availability of funds under the Regional Budget Fund for the Protection of the Environment, as these funds have been allocated to program financing of fisheries users through the realisation of concrete project activities. Therefore, this cannot be an argument for reviewing the existence of the Regional Budget Fund or for the withdrawal of funds provided for specific purposes in the field of environmental protection. I note that yesterday, as part of the Committee on Environmental Protection, we had a debate on this particular subject, and we heard the position, or the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, that they don't mind, either, that it remains a budget fund, but that it was the Ministry of Finance that opposed it and why this proposal came before us today. By abolishing the possibility that part of the fee for the use of the fishing area in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is used through the Regional Budget Fund, the Fund remains without these dedicated 24 million dinars, as collected so far annually, and this will have inconceivable effects on the environment and natural resources. In addition, the abolition or reduction of funds in the field of environmental protection is in direct contrast to the requirements coming from the European Commission in the process of joining our country's EU. I remind you that this is Chapter 27 relating to the environment and which is one of the most complex and, on many occasions, we have heard the most demanding areas, and unfortunately, according to the environment, we still have a maternal relationship and it will leave a really big impact. The Regional Secretariat for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection addressed several initiatives to the ministry in which it pointed out the need for a review of the attitudes on the abolition of the implementation of funds through the Regional Environment Budget. He also pointed out the need to amend environmental laws, because, according to the provisions of 85, 85 and 87 of this law, the Regional Budget Fund does not generate any revenue from environmental pollution charges in the province of Vojvodina and from environmental protection and improvement fees on the territory of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14007	Time, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14008	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14009	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Latkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14010	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, if we come from the undisputed fact that agricultural production is our great chance to ensure Serbia's stability, then we are fully aware of the exceptional importance and importance of the proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. This law has arisen as a result of identified problems in financing agricultural production and the needs of our farmers to be as competitive on the market as they are with both quality and quantity as well as continuity in production. In order to be able to achieve this, it is necessary to reduce the lack of credit for primary agricultural production, which is also recognised in the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture of Serbia, and concerns the lack of short-term financing in the period from sowing to harvesting, then the lack of medium-term financing of fixed assets with a duration of several years and a lack of long-term land purchase loans. Just to remove the identified problems, the Ministry of Agriculture has timely adopted such a legal proposal. The adoption of this law creates an opportunity to establish a system before the seed financing in the Republic of Serbia that would make it easier for primary agricultural producers to access sources of funding at a time when money is their greatest need, and that is ahead of a set of war cultures. I would remind you that this bill is the result of a project implemented in co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Also during the draft of this act, conferences were held in February 2012 and 2013, involving representatives of the banking system, then insurance companies and producers and processors. The relevant paper of the draft law is seen in the introduction of stocks on future agricultural products, i.e. the stock of future generations as a means of security and payment. In this way, the agricultural producer, as well as banks or processors, receives funding for the financing of agricultural production provided by future work. In the event that after harvesting, or harvesting, the farmer is unable to repay the loaned funds, the stock is activated and the lender becomes the owner of agricultural products, thereby charging his claim. I would point out that this solution facilitates access to financial resources, since funding is not required by mandatory mortgages, which often made access to financial resources more difficult. It is also important to point out that the supply of temporary character, i.e. by which calendar year harvesting, or harvesting, is all specified by the contract between the parties. In addition, the possibility of defining liabilities in monetary or commodity form as well as the possibility of their translation from one to the other, which will be regulated by the agreement between the parties. For the sake of safety, both the agricultural producer and the lender, it is prescribed that the financing contract of agricultural production is entered in the register of the financing contract, which will provide legal certainty, allowing the verification of whether a specific parcel is subject to an obligation, i.e. agricultural production on that parcel. That such a system already delivers results is evidence of success achieved by its application in Brazil, as well as in Russia and Ukraine. I am convinced that there are also the necessary conditions for this system of financing agricultural production to be successful in our country as well. I would also take the opportunity to say that this bill will come across the approval of a large number of farmers from the Sreme district, whose legal solutions will greatly facilitate the financing of production. I would remind you that there are about 30,000 registered owners in Srem, about 230,000 hectares of agricultural land under the grains of 147,000 hectares, under the strain of about 30,000 and under the industrial plant of about 40,000 hectares. From the surfaces of fruit species are the most represented plantations under the apple over 1,600 hectares, plums about 1,000 and at the end of peaches over 700 hectares. These data show the current situation in the farming area of the forest area. We will agree that the mentioned areas on the orchards are not negligible, but at the same time I am sure that the floor of the forest plain and the slopes of Fruska mountains can be far more and better used, so that the yields and the surfaces under the orchards are far better and larger. I believe it will also contribute to the measures prescribed by this law. It is precisely because of the above, that the parliamentary group, with full satisfaction in the voting day, will support this and other proposals of the agricultural law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14011	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14012	The Honorable Chairman, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament is the Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund. It is a new law that changes the existing law, which has been in place since 2009. You said in the light of this law that he is a step forward and that he represents an improvement in the existing solution, but it seems to me exactly the opposite, I think it's a step backwards, and I'll explain why. If they truly believe in bombing titles, comments Minister Vulina, that employment and the wave of employment is amazing and that this is indeed happening in Serbia, then it can be said that Serbian citizens do not have time to fish and that fishermen should not be. But if we look at the real situation and the facts, we come up with a large number of interested, 55,000 of them who bought the license this year, though, that number decreases from year to year, but it's certainly a large number. If we have three stakeholders, we have a country, we have users of fishing areas and we have fishermen, it's unclear why one side is excluded from the public debate. Why were the fishing associations, the Union of Fishermen not involved in the public debate? Why hasn't any of their remarks been accepted? Why is it the only key change that applies precisely to the Association of Fishermen that are completely excluded from this law? It is mentioned only in definitions, and in doing so, no other member is involved in associations or alliances, and we have an alliance that is recognised in the world and has a member in the board of directors of the World Fisheries Association. It's completely unclear why it was done. We have a situation where the state is tightening its criminal policy towards its users. That might be one way. But it seems to me that education and proper supervision are far better. In a completely inadequate way, ecology is present in this law and this is due to the exclusion of fishermen from this law, because it is fully known how they participate in this activity and how they participated in the previous years. It's not something that's bad and that won't contribute to the ecologicals on the rivers. Why is the procedure being additionally bureaucratic? You may, as a proposer, think that this will contribute to a better fish fund, to the higher incomes of the state, but I don't think the overall result will be better, but it will be worse. There are a lot of vague individual solutions when it comes to criminal provisions. I've submitted the amendment. I don't think the law can be corrected by amendments, because generally the wrong concept, the whole group that was interested is excluded. But I have submitted one amendment relating to Article 15, where it threatens users with fines that are millions of dinars and, in this respect, one position that is in the following text – the user is required to report to the Ministry and the fishing area in the territory of the autonomous province and the competent regional authority on changes in the fishing area which are of importance for the use of the fishing area. There's plenty of room left for the administration of inspectorates, the ministry. There is no clear view of what a change is that the user should record and inform the ministries. It leaves the possibility of pressing the user, leaving the possibility of corruption directly. Such things in law should be avoided. There's no need to leave a grain of room for administration. If you already have 12 views in this member dealing with the obligations of the user, why couldn't there be three more that would clearly describe the changes that should be registered by the user and then report to the ministry? I think this member is talking about one concept that's bad, that we have users on the one hand, we have a country on the other side, that holds both the knife and the cake, and then we're one group that was interested in communicating with one side and the other, which is the fishermen, we've completely marginalized and put aside. I think that's bad. You talked about the proposed law in line with European integration, with the requirements of European legislation. I don't think he's ever been before, and that basically doesn't mean anything. But I think that individual solutions, which are good, and they refer to the special account that you mentioned, could have been done with changes and additions, but they would have saved the association of fishermen and fishermen in a slightly better form in the context of this law. I think you could also look up to examples in Croatia and Slovenia, which have far better conditions on rivers and in the ecological sense, and that their laws and their application could have been a rapper for our ministry as well. It is really unclear why this is a completely different concept than when it comes to these two countries, which are quite close to ours, in terms of some tradition and previous legislation, when we were in the common state. Finally, I don't think this legislative proposal is good, that it should be withdrawn, to create a fully comprehensive concept that will include this large group of 55,000 from the beginning, to say, interested citizens, who in some way use their spare time, are engaged in sports fishing, and are not adequately respected in the public debate, nor are they adequately represented in this law. I don't think the legal solution is right, and if we wanted to improve something, reform it, then I guess that should be reformed to make it better, not make it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14013	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been given by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14014	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I followed closely a colleague and countryman of the previous speaker and I think everything he said about the fishermen, about the law, that's fine. Everyone has their own way and their own opinion, but bringing in a link between Minister Vulina, the Labour Act, reducing the unemployment rate, or increasing the number of people employed in Serbia with fishing, although the first perception of fishing is that it is a hobby, that people do it after working hours, and not in working hours, we really don't understand. As a result, I think that the broken Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1), that the speaker can only speak about the subject of the agenda, which Mr Jovanovic did in the most part. As for increasing the number of employees, they are directly linked to good legal solutions, such as the Labour Act, but are also directly linked to direct foreign investment. What foreign investors say about legislation and the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be published today in the "White Book" of direct, or foreign investors, and there you will be able to see how much foreign investors support this Labour Act and how much this Labour Act has contributed to reducing the number of unemployed persons by 40,000. I don't understand why anyone, even now, is taking their hands off the successes that, not to reach the government, do not reach the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but achieves our state, 40,000 people are employed, 40,000 families get security and security...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14015	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14016	... And when it comes from someone coming from someone who comes from those people who, when they've exercised power, 400,000 people have left out of work, at least it's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14017	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovanovic, you have no possibility of replicating the Rules of Procedure. (John Jovanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Let me just answer it, then. Mr. Babic, I haven't heard the mention of Mr. Vulin's words, surely to react if I had heard. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You did not follow closely.) There's noise in the O.R. Perhaps Mr. Woolin's name and name was spoken. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Do you want us to make a statement in voter's day? No, I don't. ) Mr. Jovanovic, what member? (107.) Article 107. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14018	If the MPs in their speech use some topics to point out the importance of the law or some context, you cannot allow the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be used for replication. I mentioned the question of employment, precisely for reasons to draw attention to the topic that is important. In that sense, Mr. Granny, when...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14019	Mr. Jovanovic, I won't allow the replica you're trying right now, you said yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14020	It's not a replica, but if I say...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14021	As soon as you speak to Mr. Babic, it's a replica. So I won't allow it. (John Jovanovic, from the place: He spoke to me, and you did not interrupt him. Will you let me finish? Not under these conditions, you are addressing Mr. Babic. (John Jovanovic, from the post: In the last session you took me a minute and a half. () As soon as you have tried a replica, I must respect the Rules of Procedure and not allow a replica. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: Will you let me finish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14022	Mr. Becic, you can't let a MP talk like that about his colleague. I'm talking about the employment issue based on indicators that are a matter of mathematics from primary school. If incomes fall based on profit contributions, then it's math for primary school. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14023	I said I couldn't allow you a replica. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14024	Honored Minister and Guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the previous Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund was definitely brought in in 2009, and we heard that. However, it has not delivered the necessary effects, shortcomings have been seen and therefore we have before us a bill with more precise rights defined, but above all the obligation of the users of the fish fund. The fish fund is an exceptional resource. We all know that it's important for our country, and we know that it's a renewable resource. However, in waters like this, which we have, and with this kind of extraction, it may not be a rule. The new law meets all EU requirements and standards and is all agreed on the protection of biodiversity, and the basis of the law is the management of the fund's conservation in fishing waters, in order to ensure sustainable use. Because of the public, I'm going to give a definition of sustainable use. It's when we use resources in such a way that we leave it in the same or better shape after us for some future generations. This law refers to landwater, rivers, lakes and streams, but it is interesting that it is precisely in land waters, regardless of what only 0.5% of all water surfaces are located around a third of biodiversity, fauna, or fish species. So one third is just in the seas. As problems so far, poor control of fishing, fishing as well as land-use, insufficient expertise of fishermen' users, a large number of licenses issued for recreational fishing compared to the capacity of the fish fund, the lack of training and poor communication with fishermen and fishermen, and what is most important, the introduction of allohtonic and invasive species that are pests for our domestic species located in our rivers. We've had recent problems at Lake Gružan, where there's been a murder of allohton invasive species. There we had a case where the user wondered – how could such a species be imported? We had a break-in of Tolstolobs at the Water Accumulation Warrants. That's what we talked about. That's not the primary reason the algae showed up, but it definitely contributed. In response to all these problems is this law and the objectives are the proper management of the fish fund, the preservation of fish diversity, the identification of clear conditions for all types of fisheries and the transport of goods, effective control and inspectorate and what is the most important severe penalties. I would like to say that the designated fishing area is given to management of the company, public association or private person. In that sense, I agree with previous counterpart Gordana Komic, who said it was very important who would be the beneficiary of the fishing area, because this is exactly the basic link that will apply this law over the fish fund. The user will have the first condition to be professional in this area, far more professional than they have ever been before, then to develop as soon as possible the annual programme of management with the catch plan, catch, mode of fishing, education and money investments, to give regular reports with regular monitoring, and to invest this money, which is obtained from penalties, in the fishing area. It will probably be stimulating that these penalties are actually charged, which has not been the case so far. On the user of the fishing area, who has received it for management for a maximum of 10 years, from now there are great responsibilities. I therefore point out once again how important the user is in this entire chain, and in the sense of compliance with the prescribed prohibitions. So, what's being hunted, when, to respect poachers, a ban on the introduction of allohthon species, or species not domestic, saving fish due to floods, bans the disposal of garbage. This is another appeal for all our fellow citizens that our rivers, lakes, must not be garbage dumps, because I'm afraid in a few years we'll have dead lakes, dead rivers, so we won't even be able to apply this law. Responsible and controlled fishing is the basis for sustainable use of the fish fund, and we have had this before, I have already mentioned, often the introduction of invasive species, which has damaged the eco system. As we have heard many times, fishing can be economic. So, the fisherman takes an expert exam, knows exactly what kind of test it is, gets a license, and on the other hand, recreational and sporting, when the fisherman doesn't have to pass the exam, but he has a license to hunt. Therefore, the user of the area is just responsible for training recreational and sports fishermen, as fish happens to be caught by explosive means, electricity and other unacceptable means. The fines have been significantly increased, we heard, from 25,000 to 3 million, and this money will certainly be invested in the conservation of the fish fund. With the desire to preserve our water ecosystems and fish funds, the SNS will support this law and its application in the voting day. Also, support and a bill on the approval of the Second Amendment to the Treaty on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, or EUMETSAT. With this European organisation, we have already had a contract since 2009, which expires on 22 November of this year and therefore requires a new confirmation. As we've heard, this organization makes up 30 full-fledged states, and our country is the only one who's joined. On our request, we remained a member because of our financial situation in the country, because our financial expenditures in that case are lower. These satellite images, which we get from this European organization and all of the operating materials are the assistance of the RHMZ and are the basis for precise evaluations in the field of meteorology and hydrology that are applied in many areas. So both in agriculture, so for the safety of air, water, road traffic, then protection from elemental disasters, which is of great importance to us and research into weather and climate change. Thanks to these satellite footage, the forecast for the next five days has been improved by 25%, which is very significant for preventive purposes. Just a few words on the draft law on financing and providing financing for agricultural products. We are aware that we are the country that has the highest potential in agriculture, from the wheat fields of Vojvodina to the orchards of the Forest, to the raspberries and cattle funds of the Zlatibor County, the primary agricultural production so far has mostly been financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since we know that these sources have been significantly reduced and cannot monitor these demands and the potentials of our agriculture, it was necessary to provide and improve the short-term funding model. Agriculture is the only branch that records the growing balance, and that's why this is all important. We've heard that this law is also called pre-war financing, because it allows a farmer to get financial resources when he needs it most, and that's before the harvest and when there's mostly no money. As we have heard again, we will be the first country in Europe to finance primary production in this way using stocks on future products. So, the Agency for Business Registers will also form a pre-trial register where farmers will register stocks in the future, as a means of providing finance and subsidies. What is very important is that in this way it will be impossible to avoid the execution of the obligation because of some more force or weather disasters, which gives security to the financiers and to all those who would invest in agriculture this time. At the same time, there will be incentives, especially good households, investment in irrigation systems, seat belts and anything that can reduce the risk of accidents. Co-operation with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will allow for greater investment and more favourable loans for agriculture, an exceptional chance for Serbia. Also, I would personally support the idea of restoring cooperatives, in order to ensure the placements of these goods, which I hope will now be produced in a larger amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14025	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it is clear what is stated in the reasoning of this law as reasons for the law being passed, that it is less invested in agriculture than it is necessary and that there is a need for a stable and continuous system of financing agricultural production and that this is something that we will all agree on. What is particularly controversial for the DS is that this law provides everything, just not a stable and continuous systematic financing of agricultural production. When it comes to the fact that the law puts less into agriculture than it needs, the question is – how does the Government and this law, but also its other moves answer this? It corresponds with the first debt being owed to farmers between four and six billion dinars for subsidies that have not been paid, and then reducing the amount for subsidies by five billion dinars, which the ruling coalition MPs spoke of as something that is extremely bad. We join this requirement to the ministry that subsidies for agriculture are not reduced, because we are confident that space for savings can be found somewhere else, not in that part of the funds allocated to farmers. When it comes to the continued aid of agriculture and the fact that farmers need to know what is planned, it is also extremely problematic and the government's intention to hear that subsidies are granted only to those farmers who have less than 20 hectares of land. I believe that you know that more than 60% of gross additional value in agriculture is created by farmers who have more than 20 hectares and that these attempts to give subsidies to those who have less will not prevent them from giving more land to those who have more land, because they will simply find ways to bypass it and to divide their land that is more than 20 hectares into godfathers, acquaintances, relatives and friends, to find a way to somehow get subsidies. So the main objection to this law, as well as to everything else that the government does, when it comes to agriculture, is this uncertainty that farmers will have because of this law. First of all, I think we need to figure out what a loan is and what a loan is. The bonding law is very clear, Article 1065 defines what credit is, Article 557 defines what the loan is and we do not know whether these contracts will be loans or loans. It's something that's extremely important for people who need to borrow money from someone tomorrow and are expected to pay you back. Under this law, it is not clear to them under which conditions they will be able to talk to these people at all, of which they will take the money. Article 5 The law on banks is defined that only banks can lend loans, and what you suggest is extremely similar to loaning farmers under conditions that are not laid down in this law at all. So it's pretty vaguely defined what these are all obligations that these lenders can impose on farmers who take money from them, and you seem to derivate by this law the Law on bond relations and the Law on banks. There's a parafinance system that's really going to legalize the greening that these people are going to carry out on farmers. You can't say, for example, that trustee, you say it's a legal person, an entrepreneur or a physical person. Is that domestic or foreign? What are we going to say, to prevent some large companies from our neighbouring countries that have an extremely high interest in the fact that agricultural production here is not at a satisfactory level and that they are exploiting the bad financial situation in which farmers are found and that under extremely unfavourable conditions, they lend money that they have to pay back afterwards. In Article 1 of this proposal, you have very well defined what it does, and then we have a situation that suddenly in Article 4 which seems to me to be the most problematic, some concepts that are not at all defined by the first three members of this law appear. There is also an interest rate which is zeroly defined and has nothing to do with it. So we see that these can also be loans, although the Bank Act is prescribed that banks only provide loans and mortgages that are not mentioned at all in the first three members of the law, so it is really very unclear whether these are loans, whether these are loans, under what conditions they are given, what are expected of these people. You know that they don't take these loans because they love, but they take these loans because they're in a difficult financial situation and do you think that you can find some trustee who's going to use their bad financial situation in a bad way, especially given that what they're guaranteed is not being paid and who's simply going to use it to give them credit under extremely unfavourable conditions, there's no insurance. Furthermore, there is no parity price guaranteed. So if tomorrow's wheat costs 16 dinars on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, who's to guarantee that someone won't tell a farmer – here I'll lend you money, but to sell me two dinars after the wheat? There is no protection against these great possibilities of abuse, and it seems to me it must be, if this is indeed the intention of the law to help farmers. It's an extremely risky law for them. It is possible, for example, for those in the event of some elemental accident to lose everything, to be in an even more unfavourable position, to actually engage in some kind of debt slavery towards these people who, thanks to the provisions of the law, can abuse the bad financial situation in which we are. So that's neither the system financing of agriculture nor the constant financing of agriculture, and at least it provides security, but that's the case with all the things that are done in the area of agriculture. I will ask Mrs. Minister – what about the hundreds of millions of euros that Aldahra was supposed to invest in our agriculture. Please, Mr Dinkic is only 28 March 2013...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14027	Miss Jerkov, I don't think this is a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14028	... Well, I don't know how this isn't about, so please let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14029	I don't think this is what you're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14030	... Wait, you're saying in the light of the law that investments in agriculture are less than they should be and that the incomes from agriculture are lower than they could be. On the other hand, we have a government that pledged 800,000m euros from Aldhara to invest in agriculture on 28 March 2013. Since then, no one's mentioned that money, and now it's not about asking what's wrong with it. The money probably disappeared along with those four billion dollars that Mubadala invested in the chip factory and the other tens of thousands of euros in investments from the United Arab Emirates that no one has ever seen. But these are investments in agriculture, Mr. Becic, I ask you to understand that it is a subject, because the law is passed precisely because of this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14031	Miss Jerkov, you know very well that's not the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14032	I know that in the light of the law, it is determined that the investment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14033	You don't have much time yet, I'd like to ask you to conclude your debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14034	... It doesn't matter. The only thing we can see here is that it's the government's intention to continue to employ its party personnel because we see that a brand-new register of these contracts is going to be run. It's unclear whether it means some new jobs, why it doesn't work in the APR where otherwise there's a register of publishing rights. The only thing that's good news that looks like these stakes on the supply of agricultural products aren't going to make notes, so maybe we'll take that as a sign that the government may have a little bit of sense when it comes to that thing. However, the second law I want to talk about and on which, I think, my explanation is the bill to confirm the flood protection protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement. It seems to me that by ratifying this agreement, we've taken on some kind of obligation that we're now clear that we can't fulfill. We're committed to some kind of co-operation. I'll tell you that at the time of the May floods, the president of the SNS municipality of Shid did not want to cooperate with...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14035	It's not about the flood in Serbia. We had this theme. Please finish. You've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14036	Obviously, anything that goes against SNS isn't a topic, so I'm giving up. You're doing great. Well done. Go on. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14037	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the Honored Guests and Honored Guests of the Ministry, you are now in a number of compositions, and I think that's good. Dear Madam Minister, you rarely visit the National Assembly. I think this is the first time you've come to the Assembly today to defend certain bill proposals and I consider it based on the content of these draft laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14039	Mr. Toskovic, don't throw
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14040	I may have been wrong, but I'm not sure. It's my memory, but we can fix it. I believe that this is the time that you may have set aside for a thorough preparation of these draft laws and is well-separated if the draft laws are good, and Mr Zivkovic has already said here that these bill proposals are good and it is rare to say that we Members of the Parliament have such fundamental arguments and laws as we can say are good in relation to the actions of the executive authority. So we will support and vote in favour of all the four draft laws that you are defending here today, but I would take advantage of the time I have and on which I have the right to give you a few comments as to maybe something can be corrected in otherwise good text to be even better, to say, perhaps the best after we adopt it here in the National Assembly. For example, when we talk about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, I found it very interesting for me, and I think it is very important that this part is very important for the establishment and declaration of fisheries areas. It seems to me that there are no particular reasons for the objections, but in Article 11, as far as this chapter is concerned, let me say, we have one thing, which I think she also warned about, and for me, it remains unclear, so if you can in one dialogue that we need to lead here to clarify it. For example, it is said in Article 1(2). – the protection of the fishing area is carried out by a person who is employed indefinitely with the user, who has acquired education, etc. and which has not been convicted of any of the crimes as a member of an organized criminal group, crimes against the economy, crimes against the environment, criminal acts of taking or giving bribes and the crime of fraud. It's all about this fisherman. Now I wonder - why is this list exhausted here? On the basis of which criteria, Madam Minister, has it been decided that this is the case and not something else that someone has been accused of, and what is there a verdict that someone is convicted of some crime? We have some parts here, and it doesn't seem clear to me why this is set aside. I think it can be fixed here. For example, this proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production drew attention to this section of the article. from 4 to 9 of the financing contract. We obviously have different attitudes here in the National Assembly. I believe that this is well arranged in, for example, that not only in this part but also in other parts of the bill provide better control and even greater security for farmers. I have one thing I need to tell you about and maybe answer that question. Madam Minister, you say in the light of this bill that agriculture is being invested less than necessary. So you think it has to be even more. We believe that it should be invested, that the money that has been allocated so far should be invested in agriculture, but we believe that it is a very important question of how this money that has been spent has been spent and so far because it is not some small negligible money. Mr. Zivkovic mentioned here from 2003 to today 3,246,315,080 euros. I think it is a very important question and to answer this question here how every cent, every euro spent or in 2013, in 2014 since we have a new government here, I have again calculated that almost 800m euros have been spent there. Please answer that question – how was this money spent and to know whether to increase that money?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14041	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14042	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, before this break and after all these discussions we've heard, I just want to speak to you for a moment, and at the end of all the talks, I will give answers to concrete remarks on each of the laws that we are defending here in the Assembly today. What I'm trying to tell you is that we're not hiding the situation. One of the MPs, I mean Mr. Chikiriz, said - why are you hiding, why don't you say so? The situation in agriculture is difficult, we don't hide it. A few days ago we published a Green Paper on the agricultural situation report in 2013 and we plan to issue a report each year where we will systematically display all statistical figures. The situation is difficult, but we know that this situation isn't from a year ago, two, three, this situation is the result of a long-standing non-concerning sector and statistics is that immeasurable, which can easily show since we have a significant deterioration in the situation just when we work in the field of livestock production. Anyone who doesn't believe can see, since 2000, right here. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to stop him in the last three or four years, although the oscillations are less pronounced now. Who's to blame for that? Who's to blame for destroying the processing factories, the agricultural combinations? Who's to blame for not going to small and direct users, farmers? Who's to blame for the tycoon's appearance? They were mentioned by Mr. Senic. He says we're making tycoons law. Please, honourable MPs, that's not true. We make a law for farmers, especially small farmers. It's about short-term credit, it's about the funds they'll be able to use to start up, rebuild their production. They're small, they don't have, and they don't have to mortgage the house, they don't have to mortgage the tractor, they use the property, they use the future breed as collateral. You mentioned, he's not secure enough to take the money. You say, higher power. That's clear and true. We did not provide for mandatory insurance in law, but we count that our farmers will recognize the importance of insurance themselves and will benefit to a much greater extent in the coming years. We've tried before, and in the future, we'll try to help farmers with concrete works, so by regressing the insurance premium. We stand out 40% of the value of the premium, that's what we'll do in the future. We let them figure out what was better for them. We want to offer them a favourable and stable way of funding because we don't have many opportunities. We have the funds of the agrarian budget, we have fought, and I have fought with you together in the previous period as an MP, so that the agrarian budget is 5% and we will fight in the future. That 5% I know isn't enough, it's small enough, but we have as much as we have and we all have to keep an eye on each other, more than we've ever done in the past, so that every single penny is used rightly, in an effective way. It's just that these are our options. We're working intensively to secure other resources. He mentioned Mr. Senic's IPAR program. Since I took over to run this resource, along with my team, today it's only part of that team, we're working to establish an operational structure as soon as possible. We have prepared the programme, the European Commission is reading the reports, we expect, but first grades are more than positive. We're about to have that technical part of the job, moving the Agrarian Payments Authority to Belgrade. We've secured space and the technical part of the job will be realised in the coming days. Again, I ask you - where did the Agrarian Payments Authority come from? Is it me or my associates who took over this difficult resort with me, requested, in the past, that's how they've determined it, or is it someone else? I don't want to go back in time, I just don't want to criticize anyone. I know, it's not easy, it's been hard for everyone, but I just, when someone calls us on such sensitive issues and on such sensitive issues, I have to say what's simply true. Our goal is to help agriculture as much as we can, we can't anymore. If anyone in this room knows a better way, some better fund where we could get the funds, I'd ask him best to tell us. We will certainly do everything possible to provide these additional resources and to send them to the end-user, because we know that our farmer is difficult. We face it every day and do really everything in our power to help. As far as the Protection and Sustainable Use Act is concerned, I just want to say briefly. All the remarks, and now I've heard there are many amendments, we'll be happy to respond to each amendment. Everything we consider to be well-intentioned and that it can help the law we will adopt. There will be an opportunity to look into these issues again, to talk and see what is possible, what is best, what is in the interest of the Serbian state. This fish fund law, it's a law that has one basic goal, to find the best way to protect the fish fund, to protect it, because it's a natural treasure. He is the property of the Serbian state. It must be protected and those who use fishing water must use it in a sustainable manner. It's our treasure that we must give to our future generations. We have cited a lot of what we wanted to propose by this law, which is what the new law implies as improving the existing state, improving the situation, or more secure control of the situation on the ground. That's what I talked about in the opening part too. I agree, I may be there, of course, there are possibilities that some legal provisions aren't very clear, but that's why there are amendments. We're going to review all of this, and we're going to approach every amendment, and we're going to put everything we can into the law. What is certain and what is not to be suspected by anyone present here, and not by our citizens, is that this law has a fundamental aim to protect the fish fund as a natural resource, as a natural treasure, a state property, that the state of Serbia benefits from it, and on the other hand, to ensure that this benefit is secured through the sustainable use of the fish fund, which I once again say, we must leave to our children, generations that come into inheritance. I thank you again at the end of the debate. On individual topics, I will try to give you more precise interpretation, more specifically the answers. Of course, I'm looking forward to the day in which we'll discuss the amendments. We will certainly do everything possible to clarify everything, not because of ourselves here, but because of the citizens of Serbia who need to know what the real truth is about what we are doing today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14043	Thank you, Madam Minister. You don't have a chance on the line. Just mentioning a name isn't enough. The word is Mr. Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14044	I think you should have given it to me before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14045	I'm sorry, I didn't see you pick up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14046	At the presentation of the previous speaker, Article 107. It is really offensive and it is terrible how the dignity of this parliament is marred when someone puts it on a flat-rate basis, saying approximately 800m euros in agricultural production was thrown in last year. It's something that's really scary, a team sitting next to it by his president who got from a state of free subsidies, i.e. a grant for vineyard products, and now they're worried about what money was spent on. Yes, they created a tycoon lobby in agriculture, they ruined our agriculture, and that's why they have the least right today to object to someone, a team before the current government and how it's trying to develop a small farmer, and that's for honor and pride, unlike those who have developed tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14047	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead for the injury? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 35 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14048	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Gordana Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14049	In my address, I will talk about the Flood Protection Protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Treaty on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETTSAT). There is regulation in the Republic of Serbia to protect against floods, and above all, the Law on Waters and the Emergency Law, as well as many other sublegal acts, but in order to have a more complete defence against floods, coordination and co-operation of all competent institutions, both in the country and with neighbouring countries, is necessary. It is especially important for Serbia, because our territory is run by international rivers, of which is the Sava River. That is why international co-operation is necessary, not only by establishing preventive measures, but also by responding quickly in cases of floods. We all saw how important a joint and coordinated action was, especially during the May floods, when other countries of the region were threatened except Serbia. The great flood wave has left catastrophic consequences for both the population, the economy, agriculture, and all other areas. This is another proof of the importance and needs of regional co-operation and coordination. I would remind you that the Flood Protection Protocol under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement was signed by Serbia, BiH, Croatia and Slovenia. In addition to being a common river of Sava, from source to mouth, we strive to be our common water policy, which is implemented by the EU, that is to say, harmonising with EU integration processes. That is why every country's obligation to sign the agreement is to monitor the river flow and forward information on all changes and developments at the very moment. The Agreement shall be coordinated and synchronised by activities in the river stream in the event of flood hazards affecting human activities and natural changes, by taking appropriate measures and activities to protect the environment that would avoid the dangers of the threat of the plant and animal world, the survival of the settlement, the population, the prevention of health threats, the cultural heritage, the economy, agriculture. In addition to the Protocol, there are also specific grounds for managing the countries of the signatories of this Agreement, such as Directive 2000/60 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU since 23 October 2000, which established a framework for Union activities in the field of water policy. It is important to highlight the importance of the Sava River FASRB Framework Agreement, signed in Slovenia on 3 December 2002, on the basis of which an international Sava Commission, which is responsible for implementing the protocol, was established to prevent and limit the risk of floods and reduce or mitigate the negative consequences of floods. I would point out that six months since the signing, i.e. Since the entry into force of this Protocol, the Sava Commission will bring forward a programme for the development of a flood risk management plan in the Sava River Basin, which will contain specific commitments, mechanisms, operators and time limits of realization. When making preliminary estimates of flood risks, each party is obliged to exchange important data through commissions or bilaterally. In particular, it is important to identify areas where there is a potential risk of flooding, as well as the exchange of maps of blue areas. In order to improve the functioning and prevention of flood hazards, it is important to exchange meteorological and hydrological data, especially timely forecasts of large waters. Foreign Contracting Parties will establish a harmonised or common system for the forecasting and warning of flood hazards, and the Sava Commission will coordinate, based on all data collected by the parties to the flood risk management plan. I would point out that foreign Contracting Parties can make bilateral or multilateral agreements, as well as arrangements that are not contrary to this Protocol, which, I believe, can contribute to better efficiency and coordination. The SPS Group is aware, in addition to the importance of this Protocol and the importance of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Amendment to the Treaty on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT). The importance of this contract is in the fact that they are interlinked, because the cooperation of the Republic hydrometeorological institution with EUMETSAT provides timely information on meteorological and hydrological changes, on which it is possible to respond and avoid disasters both related to floods and to sustainable environmental protection, human and material resources and at all avoid or mitigate the dangers of any weather accident, adequate and timely warning and response. I would remind you that the European Organisation for the Exploitation of European Satellites was founded in 1986. The first agreement of the then federal government, SRJ signed in 2002, and the current agreement was ratified on 23 November 2009 for five years and expires on 22 November this year, 2014. That's why it's important that we confirm this contract as soon as possible. I would like to stress that the contract is in effect the day EUMETTSAT receives an official notice of a certificate carried out by the Republic of Serbia. As the deadline expires, a valid contract in a few days, it is extremely important that we adopt it soon. Due to good co-operation and the desire of both parties to continue to join the Republic of Serbia, EUMETSAT as a full member state, it is agreed that this treaty should be amended further in Article 7(1) so that the contract remains in force until 31 December 2017. I would remind you that the organisation is worth 30 countries, and Serbia is the only member left for now. The current approach to this organisation is not possible because of existing economic and budgetary difficulties. Since the signing of the contract with EUMETSAT, good co-operation has been established on operational inclusion and the use of satellite products necessary for the functioning of the early announcement system and dangerous hydrological and meteorological phenomena, which is of paramount importance for our RHMZ. Today, it is impossible to imagine modern hydrometeorological services without the use of satellite data. In addition to the membership mentioned in this European organisation, it is also a strategic interest for our country in the EU integration process. For all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed day voting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14050	Mrs. Komic, your parliamentary group has a minute left, do you want to use that time? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14051	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed guests, and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of these four draft laws that are set before us today, I will first say something about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. This law regulates the management of the fish fund in fishing waters covering the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund as a good of general interest. The law thus covers the preservation of the diversity of jitio fauna and the ecological integrity of aquatic eco-systems, as well as the protection of the overall improved plant and animal world. The Republika Srpska Fish Fund represents a significant natural resource and deserves maximum attention as such by adopting legal acts in its use and exploitation. In this way, we also meet EU requirements and principles stemming from ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on International Trade of Wild flora and fauna, the Confirmation of the Convention on the Conservation of Wild Species of Animals, as well as the ratified fisheries agreements. The bill respects the degree and technical and technological development of diversity, the specificity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia so far and fully regulates the roles, protection and transport of fish and other animals living in water. The provisions of this law also apply to fishing waters. The fish in the fishing waters of the Republic of Serbia is a natural resource and as such is state property. In addition to fish in ponds, semi-fishers, cages in fishing water and fenced and bulked parts of fishing water for the cultivation of fish belonging to the owners of fish farming facilities. By applying the Act on the Protection of Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, which entered into force on 23 May 2009, there are a number of shortcomings observed during this period, and by adopting a new law that regulates all its segments more specifically and more precisely defining the basic concepts in implementation and application, it will contribute to the improvement of the system of management of the fish fund. With this law, we also bring into line the interests of the state, the economic operators of individuals with the emphasis of respect, the preservation of the overall system of the fish fund and full compliance with international contracts in this area. In the day when there are discussions, I hope that we will come to an agreement of all the details that we have heard here today from colleagues, both from the position and from the opposition, but one important assumption is that this government has come up with a proposal to change and make concrete moves, to pull into a really quite unsettled sphere, where absolutely there was no order that deserved this sphere of our economic branch and environmental environment. Now I'm going to say more about the proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. This law regulates the financing of agricultural production and registration of these contracts, pledges over future agricultural products, thus providing for the payment of claims under the contract on the financing of agricultural production, registration and legal fact of this stock. Legislative law on agricultural products of the stocker. Out of court settlement from stock over future agricultural products, as well as other issues of importance for financing and providing financing for agricultural production. By adopting this law, it stems from the need to increase the volume of primary agricultural production through the improvement of the agricultural financing market model. The impact of the global financial crisis on our country has conditioned a significant reduction in budget financing, and therefore the need to find alternative sources to finance agricultural production. This law systematically regulates and improves the short-term financing market model, which provides for the financing of primary agricultural production in the period from harvesting to harvesting or harvesting, pardons, from harvesting to harvesting, creating a good basis for potential finance to be more interested in paying money in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, which will in particular affect the reduction of funds from the budget for this purpose. On the one hand, between the protection of the interests of creditors who are willing to finance the agricultural production of future agricultural products and, on the other hand, the protection of the interest of the producer of agricultural products, in the event of the occurrence of objective circumstances leading to the destruction of the gender or reduction of the planned yield, the proposed legislative solution introduces a significant legal protection of creditors from the financing contract and the exclusion of negative effects, the occurrence of objective risks, should contribute to the reduction of primary agricultural production costs in the period from sowing to harvest, given that, in the context of the traditional market economy, costs depend directly on the risk at which the financing concerned is exposed. On the other hand, the proposed legislative solution provides a strong incentive for insurance companies to apply and offer a competitive and acceptable model of crop and fruit insurance from natural disasters. We need to realize that in Serbia, between 8 per cent and 10 per cent of total working surfaces are provided annually, and of all that, about three per cent of the participation in insurance are agricultural holdings, which is a very small percentage, given that the cost of the insurance premium is about two per cent on average, which is at the level of growth in crop or fruit harvesting. If we know that the applicable subsidies that the state makes on the paid insurance premium are 40% of the premium paid, it clearly tells us about taking the risk to a minimum, both for the trustee and the debtor. The subject of this contract made by creditors and debtors are registered at the Agency for Business Registers, and there is therefore one clear transparency in the obvious part that someone here commented on in terms of non-transparency, and this way can absolutely see transparency in the conclusion of these contracts between the two parties. This provision constitutes a practice inspired by the solution, which will also enable funding contracts with the initial commodity obligation provided for in such a contract, the possibility of converting goods into financial liabilities, to be provided by the law of the future agricultural products. As an example, I cite a financing contract in which the debtor's obligation to deliver a certain amount of agricultural products to the trustee. The same contract allows the trustee and debtor to agree that if the debtor does not act in a contractual manner and does not deliver the goods to the trustee, he is obliged to carry out his obligation in cash. The monetary obligation, as agreed in the manner set out above, constitutes a conditional obligation which may be secured by a stock over future agricultural products, pursuant to Article 7(3) on the right to exercise on movable matters entered in the register. Article 9 states that if a debtor who is a agricultural owner does not comply with the financing agreement and does not settle his obligation, he shall translate into passive status and lose his right to subsidies. The stock that is limited to the length of the harvesting or harvesting of the fruit or by the end of the calendar year shall not be tied to the mortgage above the land, but the right obstacle shall have a pawn trust on the given parcel to the crops themselves. The proposed legislative solution represents a strong reduction in the risk to pawns, whose benefit is the stock over future agricultural products, which should also significantly affect the reduction of additional costs in relation to the financing of primary agricultural production, from sowing to harvest, carried out by producers. In line with the solutions prescribed by this law, the farmer can now pawn future products, which he produces, which makes him more creditworthy, i.e. enables him to make it easier to obtain financial resources under more favourable conditions or at lower credit rates, than has been the case so far. This type of stock does not exclude the arrangements of other security instruments and provides other market-based opportunities, which depends on the agreement of the Contracting Parties, such as possible storage at the public warehouse of future agricultural products after harvesting or harvesting, in accordance with the law governing public warehouses for agricultural products. In this case, the public warehouse would issue to the owner a trade record for the deposited agricultural product, whose transfer would allow the trustee to acquire a real stock on goods and the farmer to wait with the sale of agricultural products until their price on the market is as favourable as possible, making the effects of production more profitable. This government has just remembered to pay attention to small and medium-sized agricultural producers. This does not mean that it reduces the value of large commodity producers of agricultural products, but precisely small and medium-sized producers did not have that protection provided to them by this law, in part on future products of that stock it is more creditworthy and does not provide in stock either the house, or the combination, or any agricultural machinery. That's what this government has in a concrete way about small account manufacturers. Also today, we've been listening to some demagogue things here, and for 12 years, certain parties have had time to show all their skills in all those great promises, and not only have they abused these very small producers when they were needed for various manipulations in the various protests that they artificially made. The government's desire in this segment to show one important and dominant influence of small producers is precisely recognition that in Serbia over 70% are small and medium-sized producers, those who are currently carrying production. We will surely in the coming period support all legal acts in the area of agriculture, where we will be able to make it clear to every farmer that he is truly in the spectrum of the attention of this government and this ruling majority and we will show it absolutely in this way, through the adoption of legal acts and not the creation of imaginary situations, where we have had and kept quiet and kept quiet so far. Now somebody's wrong with this law. I'll only remind you of one thing. Large goods producers have so far taken on parity from peasants under very poor conditions for peasants and producers. They gave him seeds, plant protection, artificial fertilisers, etc., at the agreed prices that interest is little to say that 30% were on an annual level, much higher and he had to deliver on parity basis only that certain amount of goods he produced. We don't do that. We now give the opportunity for both the trustee and the debtor to be protected by legal acts and to be equal to both small and large producers. Therefore, in the voting day, the SNS will surely support this law and in the expectation of many more laws on agriculture, to show attention to our producers that we are really working for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14052	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14053	Dear President, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the government, respected fellow Members, as MP in the second term on the SNS list, I must indeed present my enthusiasm not only to mine, but to pass on a large number of businessmen and farmers, that this is the beginning of a real rebirth of Serbian agriculture and Serbian farmers and landowners. I will only meet short citizens where Serbia is today, what previous authorities have done, and where luck is that back in 1996, 1997, 1998, we received a programme of businessmen, which is a programme of organized production, processing into the highest possible degree, where there is an extremely large difference that is known to all economists and businessmen, and even the most ordinary farmers. What is needed through all our producers, who have also been in the most difficult times of the embargo and wars, have succeeded in maintaining their production, needs great help, how they sell it today, and this is the hardest thing in the world today, even in Serbia. Serbia has one great advantage over many countries, I will compare only one to the Netherlands which is smaller, we all know it is smaller than Vojvodina, but four times more produced in 2013, about 12 million pigs in this area and made 5.5 million pigs in contrast to Serbia's 0.9 million. The Netherlands, as a much smaller country from only 60 sunny days, founded the first cooperative action society 106 years ago, and thanks to this and today the cooperatives function extremely well, as is the case in the great France, which began at the time of the Mitteran, and what has been done long ago by Canada, which today has over 30,000 cooperatives, through cooperative stock companies. So, I would like to suggest that the second step that our government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, is to pass the law on cooperatives and the law on cooperative joint stock companies as soon as possible. Why? Then, all those who wave here today and in their speeches say that this law has been passed for tycoons, I would say that it is not true that if the government accepts, it is during the adoption of cooperative laws and action societies, in this way we will be able to combine through cooperative and action societies fully all Serbian minds, all the capacities available to small, small, medium-sized producers, agricultural producers and by building several hundred small factories from 100 to 150 people employed there in the fields where there are raw materials, we will be able to increase GDP far more than our prime minister said last night as a very modest percentage in 2015 by 1.5%. We businessmen believe that, with the help of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been praised and our committee that held the day before yesterday in Baja Basta, we supported this complete programme, this law, and just to continue, to pass the law on cooperatives and companies. I am deeply convinced as an experienced businessman with 39 years of experience in the economy in production that a large number of unemployed workers will find their jobs through cooperative stock companies, and thus finally after 26 years of full-time, whenever I pass the highway and look at Godomin, which is beauty once when I lived and worked in Germany, I stood by to paint flowers of various colors, beautiful dunes, apples and other fruit trees, and then in the autumn when they mature I painted various fruits, carried and created an exhibition with Germans where I lived and worked for 14 years and boasted that my Serbia is one California, but in Europe, that is, in Southeast Europe, in large Serbia. So when I look at 26 years of weeds and matches, no one is responsible for it until today. When I look at the second part of Vučje, next to where I was recently staying, they had a conversation and a deal with farmers, which is completely in the weeds, grew to 500 acres of fruit, apples, look at what it looks like, this is terrible to allow, that no one is responsible for such a thing until today. Even worse, when you enter the site and download about the PKB fruit plantation and see here that in 2005, 2006 and 2007, then the director of the fruit plantation Zarko Radenović, with the chairman of the board of directors, has made a decision to sell the square meter of that land, meaning the plantation of apples, fruits and to sell at the price of only 40 dinars. Please imagine 40 dinars square meters, that's one ar 4,000 dinars. It's below all costs. It wasn't sold at the time. Why wasn't it sold? No one thought of finally helping to see how to help that poor peasant, especially in rural areas, where he was all alone. If we take our Left-handed, once this Left-handed has exported hundreds of tons of raspberries, blackberries, strawberries and everything else, today the village is almost empty, so that by passing one good law, by supplementing this law in addition to the Law on Cooperatives and Stock Society and Government Support, I am deeply convinced as a businessman who employs 300 workers, there are over 1,600 products, to praise, for 30 years never a single dinar of credit or any subsidy I used. It's my success, so I don't belong to tycoons when I say this. I said this on purpose not to make my promotion, but to convey to you the messages and joy of this great number of businessmen, especially in villages where only old people are and in this way will be able to rent their land and their property, to do, to do, etc., to put the land that is in the weeds. About 30% of our surfaces will finally be able to function and thus we will increase gross product, and by increasing gross products we will increase national income and have the reality to preserve our national currency, the dinar. I wrote in the amendment, I'll talk about it when it comes to amendments, anyway, I'll support this law and I'll vote in the voting day for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14054	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14055	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection with numerous associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as we heard from the previous debate, I would support my colleagues that today's agenda for this high House of the Republic of Serbia is four important laws from a very important area, agriculture. We all know, and we will all agree that if we are to develop, until Serbia's progress, then we need to focus all our strengths precisely on the development of agriculture. I hope so, and I'm sure these laws will bring one improvement to all agricultural producers and even the development of villages. I would like to take the opportunity to speak to the public this time, to commend the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, the chairman of that Committee, to thank all the members of the Committee, because the first meeting of this Committee outside the seat, outside of Belgrade, was just held in Ivanjica, in the municipality where I came from. I think it's an extraordinary practice, that this practice must have continued for sure and continued, because the other day this Committee had a meeting in Baja's Garden that was very successful. It just gives us an additional motive that we who live somewhere outside of the big centers are not forgotten, and indeed on behalf of all the citizens of my community I thank you for that. We all agreed in today's debate that the situation in agriculture, the situation in the country, is very difficult. If we were to talk about it now, we could be talking about it for days, but there are no special effects. That we're looking for a guilty man, and that doesn't make any sense. We need to move on, make good laws like this, and improve that condition. Of course, we have a good strategy for agriculture, action plans, but somewhere when it's all about to come to life, to get to our farmer, our farmer, there's always something missing. It is very important to finance and I am really happy that this law on the financing of agricultural production is on the agenda, because we have heard many times how much agriculture gives us, how much potential we have in the country of Serbia for this, and that in the external trade scale, agriculture and food industries are at first. It is therefore good that we want one continuous, in one systematic way to make every effort to fund it towards primary agricultural production and improve it. We know that funding has so far been based on funding from the budget, but we have recognized the reality that we must have alternative sources and that offers this law and these are good solutions, because we are trying to make it very easy for agricultural producers, first of all, to make it easier for small and medium-sized people. This is financing to harvest, but not just to harvest, naturally and to harvest. We know how much agricultural producers have to invest to get to the product. I support all previous speakers who have said what else is needed, but I have to appeal once again to the Co-operation Act whether it will soon be on the agenda, it is very important, then the processing capacity, something that is particularly important, and I think that it should regionally be realised where, as in Ivanjica, raspberries are produced and alien potatoes to be capacities for it elsewhere for other cultures. Of course, as counterpart Jovanovic said, and anti-urban security and security is certainly something that is a priority. In my next presentation, I would refer to the Act on the Protection and Renewable Use of the Fish Fund. We've all heard about the lack of the current 2009 law. With this new law, many of these shortcomings will be removed and I hope that in practice it will be so. Of course, the fish fund is a natural resource, it is a state property, and we all have to do everything together to preserve and protect the fish fund. This law is also passed to comply with certain international regulations. This time I'd like to focus your attention on one particular activity, one good initiative I'd like to commend. Of course, it is the association of sports and recreational fishermen in western Serbia. I have here an agreement on the establishment of a community of recreational and sports fishermen' organisations "West Serbia". It's about the municipalities of Moraviga and Zlatibor County. These are the municipalities of Bajina Basta, Užice, Kosjerić, Požega, Arile, Čačak, Luciani and Ivanjica. They've joined together, and they really want to make a contribution. We know that there has been a public debate on these laws and that the associations have also been involved in this debate and have contributed. These associations have come to the conclusion that the fish fund is on the territory of these municipalities in a very bad way, not to say a catastrophic state. That's their conclusion, and I'm passing it on to this one. Why is that? In the first place precisely because of the bad legal solutions they've been through so far. Of course, she'll get over it. Second, current users of fishing areas were largely individuals or private firms who put personal interest above all else and somehow got the impression that everything was done for individuals and private firms to come to great material advantage. So, sports fishermen and recreationals, these two districts have joined together. Their center will be right in Baja's garden, not by chance. There's the Drina River where all these fishermen naturally gravitate towards the Drina River, which I'd say has been neglected for years. It was not much or minimal investment, of course, not only the Drina River, but all the river flows in our country. What I would point out at the end of my presentation, which is not in the draft of these laws, is, in my opinion, very important, which is education, education, education. I think that from the youngest age, we must start to have an ecological consciousness and a healthy relationship to the environment. But, of course, young people are best brought up by example, and we need to be a good example of how we treat the environment. I would really like to appeal to the greater co-operation of the Ministry of Education, Education and this ministry. Of course, I worked in the classroom for 27 years, and I know that curricula and programs have a lot of content in this area. I know they have an electoral object – nature keepers, but I think it can still be done on that and above all not only on theoretical knowledge, but also on the practical ones that we need and how we need them. We've seen in these floods as many of our country's river streams of waste, that these are real dumps, and that's really sad. We need to develop that consciousness, but consciousness doesn't develop quickly. Until it develops slowly, there are inspection services and, of course, in these chapters of this law, we have increased supervision, but also criminal measures that have been strengthened. Finally, I call on all fellow Members of the People to support all four agricultural law proposals, so that we can improve the current situation and bring many things into order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14056	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14057	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, in the opening statement, or the explanation of the Bill on Finance and Security of Agricultural Production, you, Madam Minister, have cited one truth, which, whether we want to accept or not, is indisputable at present and for the last long years is valid in our agricultural production. I will quote today's state of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia – the potential and limitations show that agriculture is being invested less than necessary and that in return, normally, it gets much less than possible. However, the Serbian state's agriculture has achieved certain export results, although production is low. As we know, the export of raw materials dominates, unfortunately, cereals, and only exports of sugar, vegetable oil and beer are significant from the exports of processed products. The export of meat and meat processing is unfortunately symbolic. As measured by a hectare of arable land, Serbia has the smallest exports to the region, except for BiH and Romania. Macedonia achieves double, and Croatia even triples the export of food per hectare of arable surface, although their potential for this is, we will admit, more modest than in our country. Serbia's agricultural economy's export potential is multiple, but it will not happen until the economic and economic business environment of agriculture is changed. Serbia's agriculture must be export-oriented because it is the only way to ensure its own survival. Farmers in Serbia expect fierce competition in the coming period in all nearby foreign markets, as well as in our domestic market. In general, Serbia's agriculture, as well as the food industry, is not prepared enough to successfully deal with competition in wider markets, and Serbia's farmers' particular problem is the fact that their competition is highly subsidized from the EU budget, which is programmed and predictable for a long period of year. A large number of current producers in agriculture will have to, because of age, small possessions, poor equipment and disorganization to stop doing the work so far, because they will not be able to deal with competition in the open market, of course, unless one definitely serious shift in behaviour and its production. Given the above-mentioned evaluations, facts and possible outcomes, Serbia must create its future agrarian policy in the direction of ensuring a stable and continuous system of financing agricultural production with permanent information and continuous raising of levels of expertise and active farmers. The town of Leskovac from which I come recognized the need to invest in agriculture and through the Leskovac Agricultural Development Fund invests in the development of agriculture incentives for the promotion of livestock, fruit growing and wine growing, modernisation and improvement, technical equipment, construction of agricultural facilities, incentive financing for interest financing. Unfortunately, however, because of the large financial commitments inherited from previous governments in the city, which are two billion dinars, the total amount of incentives has not yet been paid off and city authorities are trying to finish it in the following year. However, the impact of the financial crisis significantly reduces the finding of alternative sources of funding. The adoption of the Law on the financing and provision of financing for agricultural production creates a good basis for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. The introduction of the contract, as you say, on the financing of agricultural production and the registration of these contracts is on future agricultural products, which are provided, the collection of claims under the financing, registration and legal fact of this stock, the legal right of the stockholder's agricultural products, extrajudicial settlement and stocks on future agricultural products, which enables the attracting of potential finance to the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, as we have heard from almost all previous speakers. Also, the proposed Article 4 of this Act sets out precisely the content, legal fact, form of the financing contract, which undoubtedly opens up a good way for its application. In the end, I would like to draw special attention to article 6 of the proposed law. It provides significant legal protection for trustees who are ready to finance future agricultural production. This article excludes a higher power as a circumstance that could free the primary producers from the financing contract. However, we must bear in mind that the longstanding position of agricultural producers has been weakened by everything that has happened in the past, by irresponsible long-term agricultural policy, by the financial crisis, and thus has affected the exploitation of the craftsmanship of the producer itself. This is reflected in the fact that production could not have technologically progressed to a sufficient extent in terms of construction, efficient anti-building protection, irrigation systems, but was mainly done in the order of the farmers, i.e., if possible, and flood protection are also a major problem. So the manufacturers don't set fire to the so-called. Debt slavery, we must, in some future period, bring legislation that will in many ways balance protection and trustee equally with debtors. In order to be ready to conclude such contracts in conditions of uncertain market economy and changes in global climate conditions, it is also necessary to play an active role and strong support for agricultural producers by state and local self-government in market economy conditions. This takes place in two directions and according to the Fund for the Development of Agriculture of the town of Leskovci – for the sake of and for the protection of the security of debtors from these contracts. In the first part, in terms of modernising and improving the technical equipment of the land, and in the second position, the insurance industry must prepare and offer a competitive and acceptable multi-force insurance model in time, so that manufacturers can ensure the occurrence of unwanted security risks. It is therefore necessary to actively participate in ensuring conditions for manufacturers to obtain more favourable insurance conditions. Finally, in line with the solutions prescribed by this law, the agricultural producer will be able to pawn future products produced, which makes it creditworthy. It therefore makes it easier to access financial resources under more favourable conditions, and it is important to stress that this type of stock does not exclude the possibility of negotiating other security instruments. Therefore, it is undeniable that the proposed law regulates and improves the market model of short-term financing, thus ensuring the financing of primary agricultural production in the harvest and harvest period, in line with the National Agricultural Development Strategy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I, as well as all my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party Parliament Club, will support this bill and, of course, all the others involved in improving agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14058	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14059	I thank Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, my dear Nishlia, today I will talk about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. The minister said on two occasions that the idea of this law was to pass and amend the law that was passed in 2009. The basic idea is that we are protecting and we want to protect the fish fund, which we want to protect fishing in the area of the Republic of Serbia. I fully agree here that the Law that was passed in 2009 has its own indetermination. That's why I assumed and expected the new law to solve these problems, but by reading this law, I don't have that impression. So, the first and the basic objection to you as a ministry is that, you said yourself, this law is one document that needs to solve the relationship between the state, the users of the fishing areas, these tenants, whatever we call them, and I expected the fishermen of the Republic of Serbia, who in Serbia by the list, i.e. according to the 2013 data, there are 50,069. You have to admit that one envious number of people who love that sport, who love fishing, who go to the rivers, and that is, let's say, our first line of alarmers, yesterday we talked about alarmers, about everything that happens in nature, and it's not for the benefit of the community, for the sake of nature and our environment. So these are the people who first report something's wrong. By this law I don't see them, they're not seen at all. Now it's not clear to me at all whether the Ministry has a policy to shut down fishing societies, associations, to shut down Serbia's Fishing Union or wants to use its empowerment, to popularize it, because it's a non-governmental organisation, a non-profit, absolutely non-profit, which gathers people of various profiles, various professions, with one common love of fishing, according to the river, according to water, according to nature... Is that what we want to improve or do we want to disabling and destroying it? As a consequence of this 2009 law, which was not good, we have a drop in the number of registered fishermen from some 80,000, which was in 2003, to 50,069, as I said, from 2013. They were not respected during the public debate either. They were expected to be called, to be an integral part of the commission or that working body that made the bill. You've decided, as Ministry, that there's no need. Okay, that's your legitimate right. I think this law, I repeat, is that you have the full right to bring it and you will probably adopt it, because you have an absolute majority in the Assembly, is a reflection of how you experience this area in our society, through your political programme and what you promised the citizens. I think you should respect our amendments. I have submitted to the party Together for Serbia 13 amendments, which are very much dealing with fishermen and the fishing alliance, which I think should be an integral part of this law, because that is the third basis of this law to be actively involved. I think without strong fishing organisations, what you wrote in the law is inconclusive. Only if you handle it by sublegal means. You said you had an education, that it was a mandatory conclusion that they had an education. You probably know, and I'll read to you, that the Union of Sports Fishermen of Serbia has over 70 authorised coaches, has 18 selectors and national team coaches, has 180 judges of all categories and over 500 sports associates in fishing. So that's one envious, let's say so conditionally, a force that can educate young generations that we all talk about and where we absolutely all agree that we should educate children to love sports, to love fishing, to love nature and to love to go out on the river. These are people who are qualified, we have nothing to make up. We have a finished system, we just need to use it to improve it and give it a chance for people who do it out of love, not for profit, to do what they love and for the good of everyone. What is one of the main concerns is that the Fish Fund Act lacks serious professional services, i.e. organisations that will, exclusively or with appropriate procedures, ensure management and thus preserve the fish fund in fishing areas, as set out in the introductory provisions as the objective of the law. The law provides for the possibility that the fishing area may be subject to the use of any company, public undertaking or other legal entity that meets the law of the listed conditions which are easy to meet. From what I've seen, what didn't work out in the 2009 Law is just participation in the competition, the tender, whatever we call it when fishing areas are assigned. As I see people rebelling over these fishing areas, we have five fishing areas in Serbia. There used to be 18 of them, and I think you should go back to number 18, because it's much more efficient and easier, more natural, to be smaller units, than to be large units that will have more tenants or users, as you call them. It is not clear why it is possible for any company, as well as a public company, to manage the fishing area, not legal persons, business associations or associations of citizens established only and exclusively with the aim of improving, maintaining and protecting the fish fund. This is because these services are exclusively established for the purpose of protecting the fishing area and there is no other hidden interest, given that this is their sole activity, which ensures objectivity in decision-making, security, expertise and competence, development and responsibility in relation to the use of the fishing area and other rights arising from this right. What you have given to the Assembly for consideration in this bill is not clear to me, when you talk about conditions for obtaining a fishing authorisation, you wrote in Article 6(3) of point 3 of Article 3 that the applicant, the owner of the company or privateer, is not within two years before the publication of the competition for the admission of the fishing area to use, punished for commercial offences and infringements from the area of protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. That means, if it's been three years since the punishment for such a crime, he can compete. I guess, if you've limited it to two years. I ask you - how can we trust someone who has committed an economic crime or committed an environmental failure in nature, intentional, which is why he is punished, to trust in the natural treasure of the Republic of Serbia? How can we allow someone who has already been punished for something that is contrary to the law and which is contrary to nature and ecology, to give him a chance after two years to re-mand the fishing area? Because what comes from this law, people who compete and economic operators who compete to obtain a fishing area do so out of pure financial interest. What's a list of good wishes, that's that lab they carry and file and where they write about how they're going to improve and preserve that fishing land, i.e. the area they're competing for. With this law you try to sanction it in these members and try to get it under control and commit that renter of the fishing area to keep what he has promised. To return again, avoid the societies of fishermen who are natural people of goodwill who want to advance fishing, rivers, be cleaner, better and better. I think you should seriously consider our amendments, because without these amendments adopted, I think this law will be very understated. This law as my colleagues have said – leaves a lot of gaps and possibilities for manipulation, and I ask you to consider our amendments and that on the day we vote for this law, if you adopt amendments, lady and our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14060	The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14061	The respected chairman, the respected minister, respected guests from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, we have four laws that are extremely important because Serbia has fallen into one impasse to say so, when the level of agriculture is and as the minister said, the situation is not very great in agriculture, but we all have to make one contribution to getting out of that crisis. I will talk about two laws, these are the Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund and the Law on the Financing and Security of Agricultural Production Financing. First of all, I would say something about the sustainable use of the fish fund where I would say that this law regulates the management of fish stocks in fishing waters. The very word of this law says the protection of the fish fund, where I must say that during the previous period there was no attention to the water streams, to the canals, to the rivers, to the lakes, and we had a situation where there was often the death of that fish and the animal world in the waters. The Republika Srpska Fish Fund represents one significant resource of nature and deserves maximum attention and responsibility as such. On the other hand, this law draws us closer or drives us to the European legislation that requires us primarily to protect the environment. One colleague said – we must not allow in the coming days, periods to have dumps or garbage by the river and by the water stream. The following things that are clearly described in this law are that in May of this year and that is well said in Article 28, where we had the rescue of fish from the flooded area. I can say with a lot of responsibility that from where I come from, the Machvani District, the Sabac, that we've had a great danger from the outpouring of the Sava, and we've spoken here many times. The maximum responsibility of all citizens is to save the fish from the sword, and I can also say from the silvery side, I will mention Grabovac, Klenka, where there was a spilling of Sava and there is a fish saved by the locals. Speaking of this, I have to say that right on that ground, there's a kind of fish in Ruma Community that I think only lives there. There's a bar where a cane lives. In the previous period, there was little attention to this, although many of our experts from the area came to the bar and as you stated here – scientific research fishing. They were doing it to describe it exactly the way it was supposed to be. I don't think it's done in the best way, and I believe this law will make the maximum attention and responsibility of these people, and above all I think of you who run this ministry, and I'm going to make a contribution to us to preserve these rare species of fish, not just fish, but all the other animals. As a passive hunter and a fisherman, I want to make a contribution to that, and that's why I took part in these laws. We must give maximum responsibility and contribute to the education of fishermen. It is often called into question, that is, in Serbia, the words of poaching and poaching are present when it comes to fishing. That's what we have to get in the way of. You clearly described the issue of fishing tickets. Whether they are Sunday, monthly or annually not to list it, but once a comprehensive control of the issue of these cards with quality and trained fishermen can come up with one truly quality and what we owe nature to preserve that fish fund. On the other hand, the authorised representative said Serbia is not using enough fish in its diet. Serbian citizens do not use it, if I remember correctly, we use only seven kilograms, and the peoples of Western Europe or the world use more than 25 or 30 kilograms. As a doctor, I can make a parallel, less use of fish and fish products in the diet of the human world leads to an increased disease of some cardio vascular diseases. On that side, it's not just the Ministry of Agriculture's story, I'm going to remind you of all those sentences when the prime minister in the exposé said this is one reform government that has to deal with the comprehensive segments or processes of our society. That's why I said this, let's make a contribution on that side. I really have to mention the next law, because I come from a landslide where there aren't any big manufacturers. It's a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production, not exactly small ones with five, six, three or ten. The Minister of Agriculture has been in Shappac several times in the last seven or eight months and on the ground you could see for yourself what state these people live in. You couldn't hear anywhere that someone wouldn't work, that his problem was to sow or flood, but the situation that led us for the past 12 years where agriculture was destroyed, where it was driven and done, we didn't have one strategy in agricultural production. First of all, I mean this primary production, but on the other hand, we had certain tycoons or monopolies giving imputes for agricultural production in parity, which is probably the most expensive for the agricultural producer. With this law that we are discussing today and that you have suggested we are in a position to place these small agricultural producers, if they sow five acres of corn, they can put that year into stock. It's the easiest and simplest and best thing for these producers to do right. It says here clearly that if we don't give the farm as much as it wants, the country, we can't even pick it up from it. So, maximum responsibility, give maximum access and give food to the country and we can pick one quality breed. Our agricultural producers have entered a problem where they really don't know how to sell their product and what the price will be. We say here on the one hand -- yes, we're going to mortgage it, but I also believe as a representative of these people from all over Serbia and my colleagues talked about it, this is just one start. This is the law where we enter the first step where, I believe, in some future period, we will have one sure sale of these cereals, whether it's wheat, whether it's corn, it doesn't matter at all at this point, but the agricultural producer will have a clear strategy. In agriculture, it's the most important thing, to know what needs to be sown, and not the sympic this year is the good price of wheat, next year we'll sow wheat that we can't export because it'll probably be more quality somewhere, so maybe it'll be cheaper, and next year we'll be corn and vice versa, we'll get into one problem again. I'd like to finish my presentation with you having to come up with a strategic idea, give one program and one goal and link it all to livestock production. Let's not come as it has been the last few days in my hat saying we're opening ten milkers and we don't have enough milk cows for one small milkman. These are the things we need to discuss here. There's no telling if anyone's smarter or not. Gentlemen, Serbia is in one serious problem. Agriculture is in serious trouble, and we all need to make a clear and quality contribution. In voting day, I will, as well as my colleagues, support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14062	The People's Messenger Ivan Karic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14063	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are, to say that I will not repeat the remarks made by my colleagues from the SDS and the ZZ parliamentary group, Green Serbia will present here a number of environmental examples, some concerns, some of the doubts we have seen, and perhaps it would be good to discuss this. Since I will first talk about the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund and since the last three years in Serbia do not practically pass a week so that there is no ecological disaster in one part of the territory, since we are constantly looking for some tax offences for rich people or chasing people who are not working properly, for Green Serbia it is unacceptable for someone to commit environmental offences that are in the Criminal Law, and that they are looking for some other mistakes instead of being closed a year, three years, five years, and that they are prevented from working because they are committing a criminal act – environmental pollution dangerous to human health. We have criminal provisions here in the bill, and my question is whether they define criminal legislation, given that Article 58 mentions economic offences in points 15, 16 and 17, but these approaches are very clearly defined by criminal law and there is clearly no distortion. Just to make one clarification about it. We have, of course, a very open issue of asset management, the use of compensation and a missing solution. Perhaps that solution could be an institution of the trust fund type for the protection and promotion of the fish fund. This would provide visibility and accidental spending of funds. On the other hand, it is necessary to return some of the funds to local self-government in fishing areas and here it is understood that the use of these funds must be strictly targeted. We can't talk about our own use of these funds without any control of the spending. It takes what we've heard and from my esteemed SNS colleagues to improve co-operation with fishing associations. Green Serbia has amendments and believes it is necessary to provide for advice from fishing organisations in order to ensure the participation of fishing associations and organisations and, above all, to participate in dialogue and possible partnership with the ministry. This would make it easier to implement programmes of envisaged activities and national actions that could be of general ecological character and thus open dialogue and associations to have the right to give opinions and to participate in the creation of different acts in the matter of the ministry. We have Article 6 of Section 2 of point 7 that the number of fishers is listed, the number of fishers a company plans to hire. You know what, whenever someone tells us that they have a nice desire to hire one number or one nice promise that they'll only hire to get money and manage it, they'll get a job tomorrow, usually there's no employment ever again. We have a problem for us, it seems, the issue of the official because perhaps, without enough clear authority, he might be able to commit some criminal act and, in fact, make it possible for anyone who commits an offence because the fisherman is overstepping some other powers that are regulated by other laws to enter into the problem, and in fact the one who committed the real offense is getting away with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14064	Mr. Karicu, you're ending it. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14065	Can I just have one more sentence? When it comes to the proposal for a law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production, we think that a new approach to climate change is introducing us into a situation that maybe we should predict big scale disasters that we can't control, these environmental disasters that are happening to us, and that we might be able to take into account, that we're talking, this isn't an issue now, but a proposal, about a fund to finance and refinance the risks of natural and environmental disasters. Thank you. For the flood protection protocol, we'll certainly vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14066	The People's Messenger Vladan Milosevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Miletić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14067	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister and other members of the government, is the very fact that such a law has come into the assembly procedure giving hope to all producers, including ourselves, that something new will happen in our agriculture. We all know that Serbia's agriculture has been destroyed and brought to the lowest possible branches. Whoever's to blame, let the citizens themselves evaluate it, and it's up to us to do what we can. I think a law like this can fix the situation in our agriculture, especially if at this point it may be the most appropriate for our farmers who have lost their resources to work. We know that the agricultural machinery is of maximum age. There's one more thing good about this law, which is being passed on time. We didn't wait for the last moment, so when we get into a situation where spring is starting, we don't know what we're going to do or where we're going. This way, financing agricultural production will avoid a situation in which nearly a quarter of Serbia's agricultural holdings are currently located. What's this about? These farmers took loans due to floods, due to the city, droughts and failed to repay those loans, and they were placed in passive status. Now this law will give farmers the opportunity to otherwise provide production funds, and insurance companies are included in the entire system. The state subsidizes with 40% of that insurance. I think it's a good thing for our farmers. He won't be afraid to see if tomorrow his landlordship will go into a passive position such as these holdings that are already in passive status, and I think we should find a way to get those households back from passive status to active status and any way to help them. Also, the good thing about this is that we included agricultural products processors. It seems to me that we've tried to figure out how much we miss farming cooperatives. They used to cover all these cooperatives. There were nine cooperatives on the territory of the Vladimirci municipality. No farmer had to wonder if he'd have any money to sow. He goes, signs a contract in the company, raises production funds, and when the production cycle is finished, the funds are paid to the company, and what remains benefits him for his own needs. I think in the next period you'll consider forming cooperatives and passing cooperative laws. I think he will, moreover, improve the situation in agricultural production, especially plant production in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I'd like to make another suggestion. As we have provided the trustee in this case, let us also provide our farmers who give their goods and in some way finance large trade chains. They pay them the goods in six months or, as is the case with the ‘Sabar Milker’, they don’t pay them even for a few years, and these amounts are millions. Imagine one milk producer, owed for two or three years back, who's supposed to charge about two or three million. That's enough in the territory of my municipality, the Vladimirs, not to speak in all of the Swords, etc. I suggest that we provide these producers in some way with either a pawn statement or some other way, but to provide them. As for the Law on the Protection of the Fish Fund, I think it's great, but here's no problem with the law, here's the problem with law enforcement. Someone just mentioned the fishkeepers. I can't have fishguards protecting the fish fund. For example, in the territory of the Vladimirs municipality, the Sava River runs 29 kilometers in our territory. This area is owned by the "The Water Coluber" from Valjev, which is 70km from Vladimirs. That's where the fishing services are almost gone. The only one who's trying to protect it in some way is the few of these fishermen, but those people have no power to do anything to protect it. Believe me, that over there in that part of Sava is no longer a fish-stealing, it's a crime of greater proportions. People have got the engines of great power and there's nothing they can do about it. Our belts have no reason to put down the nets in the Sava, and they're paying 110 thousand licenses. They have nothing left to do but wash the nets and the fishermen and not talk. So I ask you that in the course of this law, the law is good, there are good and criminal provisions, it's all good, but let's do it all the way. This must include the Ministry of the Interior, not only the association of fishermen, not only the fishing service, but also the Ministry of Interior, a large part of the job of offering to protect the fish fund in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14068	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milija Miletic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milorad Cvetanovic should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14069	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected assistants and state secretaries, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have come to a law concerning agriculture, which for me as a MP and representative of the United Peasant Party is the most important thing in our Serbia. I think with this set of laws, we will have the opportunity to help our agricultural producers, number one, to overcome a very difficult situation, for which they themselves are not to blame, but rather to blame an earlier period when things were happening that were very bad for agriculture. That period, I may say, is a period of eighty-something years to this day. Agriculture has been placed in a seal, I don't know why, but I know, it is certain that agriculture, a village and a peasant in the most difficult moments of our country of Serbia have helped us, our Serbia to get out of this difficult situation. Dear Minister, I will talk about funding and about this law that our agricultural producers can somehow help themselves to support their modest budget, to overcome the difficult situation they are in. This law may have been supposed to be passed before. It was in the proposal in 2012, but I don't know why it wasn't done. Probably because of some circumstances I couldn't influence back then. I will support this law on financing and providing financing for agricultural production. I think this way is now given the possibility, and legally and formally-lawly, that our agricultural producers in some way be in charge of the short term, whether it's through money or through goods that they have to prepare. This part of the borrowing for me is very important, as it is for a man who comes from a small municipality, the Municipality of Srljig, in which we, as a local self-government, put a very large accent on the development of agriculture, because in the budget of the municipality of Srljig, we have allocated close to 10% of the budget for the development of agriculture and village. I was in that municipality and the president of the municipality and in every way we helped our agricultural producers to see that they had someone for them and to think. I will speak a language that I can mostly understand my agricultural producers from the south, from southeastern Serbia, but may not understand me in northern Serbia, probably because of the language and the accent that I'm talking about. I'll talk about this law positively. I think some members of the law can be changed in some way, which are members of the 6th and 9, but first I'm going to say that this borrowing of our agricultural producers is very important. I'll set an example. For example, a man from Srlig, a farmer who lives in his village, now has two or three cows or a dozen sheep. Now it's spring seed time and he doesn't have the means to provide himself with seed, oil, or fertilizer, and he has to sow himself. Now we come to this law. So far, that man or the peasant from my area of Srlig, or some other small municipality, had to be in charge of a bank where he had trouble providing himself with a mortgage or something, and only then could he get the funds. By this law and formally we get that man to take the loan, that through the goods that will be for the next five or six months, when he reaps, he will be able to return it. If it isn't this law, that farmer of ours would have to sell either a cow or a calf or some lamb that's very high-quality, dimmed-up, purposeful lamb. If he sold it, he couldn't move on to livestock, because he's out of options, because he doesn't have any more funding. So now they're going to take a loan like this, settle, sow, and hopefully, unless there's a big drought, they'll be able to reap and pay back the debt to whoever gave that loan. Normally, to return the interest thing. That part, that part. Article 6, which I and the Committee on Agriculture have said and made a comment, and we have also spoken to our Committee President Marjan Risticevic, we will also try to change something through the amendment, because I know that if someone gives funds, it will most likely be banks, they will not work without profit. If a great drought comes and my farmer or peasant from Svrlig gets 200 thousand dinars, he has to return a certain interest, and there's been a huge drought. I suggest that this Article 6 respects the Law on Liabilities, where tomorrow, if some elemental disaster such as drought occurs, it cannot ensure that it is its harvest, and we all know that insurance companies are very difficult to secure from the great heat. That farmer of mine will pay back the debt, but it'll be hard to pay back the interest. In that part, in Article 6, I don't know if we may have the opportunity to repay the principal debt, and not to be the total debt, the total interest, or the income of the borrower, but to find up to 50% of the intended interest, i.e. for who gives the funds. I think that would be correct and fair for those people who live in the country, who live hard, who take those funds, and if he doesn't pay back this debt now, we get to Article 9. We also talked about article 9 on our Committee on Agriculture, which was in Baja's Basta, with our friend and MP Mladen Lukic, if he does not repay that debt, we will come to the Ministry of Agriculture tomorrow, the farmer from Srljjig or Baji's Basta, it does not matter, 5% does not pay back that debt, he will come to you from the Ministry of Agriculture, or from your colleagues, and he will say, "This man from Svrljig or some other end did not pay back that debt, but remains 5%." This man will be wiped out of active land and will enter a passive land where there will be no chance tomorrow of using the funds and subsidies provided by the Ministry of Agriculture. I think that this article 6 is going to try, in some way, through the amendments, that's what we agreed with Marianne to fix something, if, normally, you agree, and my fellow MPs support it, and Article 9, which is very important, that these people are not deleted tomorrow. We all need to be aware of the situation in the small poor communities from which I come, where it is very difficult to live, where it is living from agriculture, but agriculture is hard to deal with. That's why this article 6th and Article 9th, if there's anything we can do, to fix it to be good. At the very least, this law is in place. This law allows small farmers to prepare for the sowing, whether it's a spring sowing, whether it's a autumn sowing. What's more, part of this law will apply from March of the month, which means it will be applied before the start of the spring seed. Why? Because a large number of people living in municipalities such as my municipality are in a very difficult situation and they will benefit from this law so that they can provide funds to complete the spring so that they do not sell their quality calves, not sell their quality lambs, so that they can do the spring set that is coming. I will support this law both as a man and as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, because in the coming period, I want us all to put together an accent on agriculture. I think it's agriculture and livestock, and our prime minister said that livestock is one of the most serious things that can help our Serbia and agriculture get out of this difficult situation. We have to put an accent on livestock. The livestock industry needs much more subsidies, much more resources, but I know the situation with us in the Republic of Serbia's budget I am aware that this must be done. I also know how it was a little earlier in 2012, in that period maybe, some subsidies were much stronger, more serious, but these subsidies were used by some people who had perhaps over 1,000 hectares, while small agricultural producers used very little, because they could not follow those regulations, or sublaws, which were meant for these strong and powerful, which are not in southeast Serbia, where I live. I think we're going to help these laws fund agricultural production. I'm sure you will, and I hope you and your team minister, and the prime minister said, put an accent on livestock. I'd like to, and I'd probably like it to be more of our citizens, our Serbia, more of the agricultural producers who live in small poor municipalities. I wish there was some difference between the mountainous and mountainous areas and the plainland areas, not because in the mountainous and mountainous areas very well live or vice versa, but because farming in the mountainous and mountainous areas is very difficult, very painful, the roads are bad, in poor condition, and we of those who remain to live in the mountainous area have to separate much more to stay there. I also spoke to my fellow MPs who are next to me, because the area where there are no fields that no one can farm, there will be no fields, but it will be a wasteland. We care about the people in our villages, where we have about thirty, forty old people left. We must somehow give them a chance to see that someone thinks of them. He's talking just because I'm like a representative of the municipality, and in the previous period I've really tried to give agriculture and the village great importance, because as a veterinarian on the ground, I've been walking these villages and I've seen people in these villages struggle a lot. That's right with me, in the village of Sr., so is Bajna Basta, and all parts of Serbia in the mountainous and mountainous areas. I really hope that we will have some new measures or measures that we can in some way give an accent on the mountain-mounted area and that our agricultural producers who stay and work in our villages see that someone thinks of them. I also hope that we will have the opportunity to slowly prepare our agricultural producers and in hill-mounted areas for the game that is coming to us, because we all know what happens when we join the EU, and we want it with all our heart. We know that only the strongest remain in the EU. It is in the EU that 40% of the EU's agricultural budget is allocated, but only the strongest ones take it. I urge you first, Minister and your colleagues, to put an accent on those small farmers, small lordships, to give these people importance, because these people supported Serbia when it was most difficult. I'm going to vote for this law with all my heart and I'd love to, if we could, uh, Article 6 that I talked about a little while ago, and I said a little while ago, we're going to try Marian, we've prepared some amendments. I hope you can accept these amendments and give people strength and opportunity not to be afraid if they take the loan from that lender tomorrow, to be deleted from the register tomorrow and to enter passive land, because that's the only way they lose. Believe me, these subsidies and premiums that our farmers get, they keep our villages. It's our people's kind of profit, so they can pay for electricity tomorrow, so they can pay for it, buy sugar and coffee, because it's being bought in our villages, because villages are very old. I will certainly vote these other laws and as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, I will always stand for the village and agriculture, because, as I said earlier, our Prime Minister Vukic has put an emphasis on agriculture. What matters most is we have the will and desire for the EU, but we have a great heart and a great chance for our products in Russia and Belarus. I support all measures of the Ministry of Agriculture that will show some difference between the mountainous and mountainous areas and the plainland area. It needs everyone, but it's much harder to live in areas where people don't have access roads, where they have weaker electricity and where they live with the moss of older people who don't have doctors to visit. We're going back to one moment when I was talking about interns, let's say my municipality doesn't have an intern and my peasant can't do that review, but he has to go to Nis. Once again, I apologize to my fellow MPs for making it a little longer. I don't have much opportunity to answer and speak, and precisely because I come from agriculture, and that's why this theme about agriculture, I will always be there for her, and I want everyone to lead with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Agriculture, we all go to better tomorrow, but better for agriculture and the village, and the peasants who have preserved our country for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14070	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Let MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14071	I will talk about the proposal for a law on financing and ensuring the financing of agricultural production. The global financial crisis caused by structural disturbances, a sudden lack of capital and liquid funds to maintain the world's economic movements regularly, highly developed countries are threatening the risk of a long-term recession, in less developed countries, such as ours, the global crisis has had a much greater risk of a general financial collapse due to limited funds to overcome financial insolvency rapidly. For Serbia, the exit from the financial crisis lies in a faster launch of free, untapped national resources, where relatively small investment, with new, fresh capital, can create new jobs in a very short time, GDP growth and a faster market orientation towards new products and export services. The new economic development strategy of Serbia depends on the skills and speed of the use of huge resources in the agriculture and agriculture sector. The existence of more than 400,000 registered agricultural holdings and with several thousand small and medium-sized enterprises for the processing of primary agricultural products, as well as for logistics support, represents a real opportunity for a faster exit from the crisis. However, available resources in the agriculture sector remain very limited with the range of products and services with a higher level of processing, which could be offered to our traditional ino-buyers. Although there are conditions for the development of new export-oriented business ventures in Serbia, there is a lack of business ideas, knowledge and skills needed to start such a job. To launch new business ventures, hundreds of good business plans must be provided within a very short period. It is precisely this law on the financing of primary agricultural production that provides many opportunities for a faster and more efficient incentive for the development of agriculture, a reduction in the unemployment rate and an increase in GDP. It is generally known that thousands of hectares of five million 734 thousand hectares of farmland have been unsettled and totally untapped for years. The basic reason lies in the lack of financial resources and short-term loans that would be committed to the period until the harvest or harvest. It is this very moment that this law will be substantially changed and will allow both the publisher and the lender to find common interest and the joint work and means to gain mutual benefit. Thousands of those who have been waiting in front of the employment desks for years, who, because of their modest material opportunities, are not able to make their business plans and business ideas related to primary agricultural production come true, are given the opportunity to benefit from the land on which the owners or through the lease of the same gain and help themselves through existential personal and entrepreneurial work. The economic migration of our citizens mainly to the Western European countries has left behind empty villages, thousands and thousands of unprocessed ornaments, empty barns. Generations that have gone have left their grandfathers at the mercy of climate conditions. I am sure that without great compensation, those who would be proud to work them and benefit themselves and their family would be granted them. It is this law that I am confident will make many of them happy, and those who, due to lack of financial resources, were not able to turn to their own work, as well as those far from their own breast. The possibility that without a high risk dose, in which insurance companies will play a crucial role, which also gives this law a boost in development, starts their own business and develops a good financial strategy, where, with this very affirmative law, there is a possibility of discharging the unemployment rate, there is a very fruitful basis for increasing the export of agricultural products to foreign markets, which is one of the primary objectives of our economy. Pre-arranged trade, i.e. the settlement of the hostage trustee in agricultural products during the harvesting or sowing period gives a huge incentive to the stockholder, the primary agricultural producer, that the loaned assets can be very easily returned and the arrival of claims made. I am sure that the Law on the financing of agricultural production will greatly accelerate the development of the same, provide a developmental opportunity for the agricultural sector and reduce unemployment. Traditionally important industrial sector, the production of agricultural machinery, will also experience its rise as an inevitable factor in agricultural improvements. I think that in the development of agriculture and the acceleration of its growth, the future of Serbia's survival and economic development, as countries have turned for centuries to food production, the preservation of villages, traditions in production, brandy, wine, cheese, fruit and vegetables. Investment in agriculture is a role to play in saving Serbia from the crisis, stakes in Serbia's prosperity and respect, stakes in reducing unemployment and increasing GDP in what we really need to be - the leading agrarian country of the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14072	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14073	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, I must admit that I am quite pleasantly surprised that this country has finally begun to think of a small farmer, which, unfortunately, has not been the case, because this country has worked exclusively for tycoons. This is just amazing, I can even tell the farm revolution, that someone's starting to think about that little producer, which is very positive. A team before a small farmer will be able to advocate his future generation and thus acquire funds. The right to tell you, this isn't so bad for these banks that normally did business under the system of "trange-frange" and took away people and property and all living things, because now they're going to have to do their loans and how they're going to place themselves in something called production, which is their primary activity, or at least it should be, but unfortunately, they're not being treated that way. In any case, very, very positive, as I think it is very positive that the subsidies that are given in the future are given up to 20 hectares, not only to these farmers who had 100 hectares, which were mostly tycoons and they were the only ones who got it. I like some of the other measures the state is trying to take. For example, I personally talked to Mr. Golubovic about it, I don't know how the government is going to decide, but I am personally a great opponent to subsidize those who take the state land for hire. Because so far, we've had a situation to, say, rent a country without almost getting the same amount of subsidy and then doing nothing. The land parks, they live well and the farmer fails. I would ask you in the future to pay very much attention to the auctioning of land, because mostly tycoons came to that land, and the small farmer couldn't get anything, and how, that was one double-crossing way – local self-government to provide the funds for the auction, and then the tycoon hires a bunch of these small farmers, they're supposed to bid, they're giving huge funds, even though nobody asks them where one million or two million dinars come from, they get it in lease, and, of course, the tycoon took it all away, they don't do anything, the state has a big problem. So I'd like to ask you to take a look at the land bid in the future, because the little farmer didn't get anything at all. He couldn't get to those 20 acres, because the tycoon would take everything, and why, because someone allowed him to have such a monopoly position. I have to tell you, I totally agree, the agricultural product is stock and that's something where the market dictates the price. But it wasn't like that with us, the tycoon dictated the price. And then we had a situation so that you could produce as much as you want, to have a top-of-the-line gender, but to deliberately knock your price down the tycoon, and then export it at twice the price. It's something that's been going on here, and that's how our agriculture got ruined. If you know each other in the morning, this is a really big, big change, and I'm happy to vote for something like this. Finally, the state began to think of a small farmer. I'm convinced, almost more than I'm sure, and that's that you're going to have terrible pressures from all these tycoon lobbies, who are used here to holding monopolies and being the only ones who are God-given. I believe you'll be breaking these cartels, and that's something that's primarily your activity, it seems to me to be the Minister of Agriculture and the entire ministry at all, as well as this commission that serves the supposed protection of the monopoly. I didn't see them doing anything. We had this amazing situation that, say, the peasant produces, and then you only had one tycoon as a buyer, like Miskovic, who didn't pay people anything. You sell him apples, pears and I don't know what, he sells it in his markets, he was the only monopoliest, and the suppliers don't pay anything and then he says – I'm a very successful businessman. So you can be a successful businessman for everyone, because you have the protection of the state and because you're a monopoliest and you don't care how such a small farmer goes down. Finally, the state took small farmers for protection. Please, since it has been here and there have been some good proposals, regarding the Law on Co-operation, to urgently pass such a law and what I ask you very much, it is to do as professionally as possible, as best education as possible for our farmers. I think it's terribly lacking for our farmers, and I think they're in a very large minus because, you know what, people have to learn when they're going to preorient that maybe they're producing something else. We're used to it here, that's what it is. The self-government system, or the directive economy, well, that's right, it's always going to pay my state and guarantee my price. It can't be like that now, because this is a stock market, but our farmers aren't used to the market dictates their price, even if it's understandable, since again, I repeat here, the tycoons dictated the price unfortunately, and not so much market, but whatever, you have to educate them. People don't know yet that they still need to team up individually, they go too far, they get their throats into strawberries, and then they end up falling apart, and then, of course, it's everyone's fault, and it's precisely because the state didn't do anything to educate that farmer and to explain to him that maybe the best way to get their product somewhere is to place it. Of course, there's also a problem with how to place the goods, especially because various cartels keep the whole market, but I believe this, since this law that you're making and we're all going to be very pleased to support here, I believe that these cartels will start breaking up and that this country will finally start living off agriculture, that there's something to export, that there are some products, and not only to export the raw materials somewhere, because it's completely insane that we as a agricultural country have abnormal imports of agricultural products and I believe that we can produce a lot ourselves and, of course, protect our peasants. Thank you. This, of course, will be very supportive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14074	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You've got another minute and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14075	I have left so accurately that I have appealed to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the co-workers of the Minister of Agriculture that all amendments that are acceptable to them will enlarge these laws. We do not particularly claim that the Agricultural Financing Act is ideal. However, he is a small step in the right direction. It is time to raise a new agricultural policy and understand ourselves, we who claim that agriculture is our chance, say that the economic power of a country is not measured by the amount of money and diamonds, but by the amount of healthy food and drinking water that the country can produce. We think that apart from agriculture, it is also important to lift up the processing industry, that what farmers make, produce and that workers process and that they are satisfied both and make some extra value, that we do what we do as workers, as peasants together with all other citizens of Serbia. I think it is time for a new agricultural policy to gather around the problem and that no matter who has sinned so far, to turn one of our new pages, and in this regard I appeal to all MPs to accept all amendments that are acceptable and to adopt these draft laws. I think the application of the Agriculture Act will be delayed in six months, such an amendment exists. The Agriculture Committee will adopt it. I don't think the laws are a holy letter, if they have any shortcomings, that we will correct them. I think it's really time for a farm that's been abandoned and abandoned, to advance like it's time to improve the state that was in the same condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14076	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14077	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For reasons unknown to me today, I didn't get a replica even though I was twice referred to by name and the minister referred to my discussion, so I want to repeat the questions she did not answer in her address. So why are the interest on funding contracts in agricultural production hiding? Why won't they be registered to the register? Will the contract register be published on the Ministry's website? Why is the ministry the so-called The state interferes in the market, so why regulate relations between the two market participants, creditors and debtors by favouring the trustee, because if the debtor does not owe his debt to the trustee, he goes into passive status, in the register of agricultural holdings? Why is there no price guaranteed in the law, and it even gives in the contract provided for in which plots to be produced and no price guaranteed for certain products, and why are there no obligations in the law to commit trusts, so that farmers of agricultural production buy and pay products? Therefore, the law stipulates that the debtor must owe his debt to the trustee, and on the other hand, it is not intended to sanction one who takes agricultural products, for example, in order to buy them out, rather than pay them off. We have examples from the past years that both milk and sunflower and corn and much of the agricultural products have not been paid, that they are not paid. Also, the question remains why is it not allowed for the agricultural producer to be called to higher force and thus reprogramme its obligations towards the trustee? So a lot of questions we didn't get answers to, so I repeated them this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14078	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14079	Thank you very much. At the end of today's debate, I want to thank all of you, everyone who has spoken about the laws proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. You have helped us to present these laws closer to the citizens, and I expect you to be present as well, and also to speak with the same elan and grill when they are on the agenda of the amendment. We expect of course that next week, we look forward to a large number of amendments and the opportunity to talk again about topics from the area of agriculture. There have been a lot of questions during today's debate, a lot of problems raised or mentioned, a lot of positive suggestions, a lot of optimism. I'll only try to get to the questions I've been able to write down to give answers. Here's to starting with the law on pre-trial financing. As you know, we with this law and as you've heard, we want to establish a system that will significantly facilitate the farmer's access to the funds when he needs them most, at the beginning of the sowing. It's not about a new form of funding, it's just about new funding conditions. For the first time, we want to help him by giving him the opportunity to be at the future generation. Of course, by adopting this law, we are actually creating a legal basis for further work on implementing it. As we have said about the implementation of this law, the next period is important, for the next few months, when the register will be made, when the entire system will be established to function. In that sense, we also need joint activities of banks, processors, producers and, of course, us at the level of the ministry. It's one job that means one training, a training that includes those who helped us get to this law. This is about serious institutions, the Food and Agriculture Organisation, or the FAO and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So these are the institutions that have invested so far money in the preparation of this bill and will also invest the other part of the money needed to make this law work and live. Someone mentioned a deadline when this law would start to apply. I sincerely hope that it will be March 1st, so that our farmers can use these funds for the spring harvest already. As to the way in which the deposit is provided, that is to say, a much higher power, protection, or security, etc., we were in a dilemma whether to introduce mandatory provisions in the law and compulsory insurance. After various analyses of different opinions, opposing each other, we concluded that it might be better not to prescribe a legal obligation for a farmer to secure his own possession, but we are aware that practice will impose this need on itself. We look forward to the fact that the larger the seeded agricultural area is secured. So we've been before, and in the future we plan to help by regressing the 40 percent insurance premium. So, on the funds invested in insurance we give back 40% of the funds invested in this case, but also in those other cases where the credits provided for in these laws are not used. Our recommendation is - secure your crops. We see all climate change, the city, the floods. Every year we get some of that. Someone asked about it as long as it came with the city's protection law. I must remind you that the topic or that the issues of protection from the city since 2011 have changed from RHMZ to the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. As far as we are informed and familiar, there is a bill of protection from the city, submitted to adoption. We expect this law to be passed very quickly. We need this law because with this law, we will include in one significant part local self-government which, of course, will have to take over some of the financing and responsibility. There are also other initiatives that are technologically more advanced, initiatives to introduce, say, planes and break clouds with certain chemical means. These are initiatives coming from respected Minister Velimir Ilic, but so far they are only initiatives. The waist will give the final word. I'm saying all of this for the simple reason that you know that the government cares and thinks about how to solve this problem, but I still want to remind you that this government has only been there for six months, and that it works and that you know what we all found after taking over the duties of certain resolutions and ministries. So we leave more force issues to the farmers themselves to decide whether or not they will provide, or whether they will count on good luck in a given year. In any case, we as a ministry, given everything I've said, suggest that crops should always be provided to the greatest extent possible, at least until we find someone else and a more favourable solution. The question has also been raised whether these funds could be used if the state's lease is rented. The question was also about the restoration of state land. The law provides for the possibility of using these funds even when it comes to state land. It is true that we are preparing a new law on agricultural land, that we are thinking about many things when it comes to this problem, and that we certainly have these issues of restitution that are significantly driving us into a more express solution, but as far as the law itself is concerned, it is possible to exercise the right to credit means and in cases where the state is being rented. Someone said -- why are we exporting primary agricultural products, why are we exporting corn, why aren't we making meat, we're not exporting milk? I must tell you that we are deeply aware of the situation in agriculture and we are aware of this handicap. We export war cultures instead of exporting semi-processed or processed raw materials. We export for the simple reason that we have no other solution. For years, the stock fund has been destroyed and now it's at some minimum we don't even want to mention because it's one big minus. What's most difficult in this whole story is that we all know what it means to restore the stock fund. It's easy to say – we want more pigs, we want more milk, we want more meat, and we all know that rebuilding the livestock fund takes time. So this government is not responsible for why the situation is like this, why we export corn and not export meat. What I have to say is that we're really considering how to raise livestock production. As fellow MPs have said and as we all know, our Prime Minister, Prime Minister Vukic, almost every time he has the opportunity to point to problems in agriculture, points out how much the government wants to help agriculture and how much it wants to help livestock production. And I'm aware of the honest commitment when it comes to this, but I have to tell you now and in the role of a professor whose most important area of interest and education is livestock, that indeed, with all our good wishes, with all our available powers, there is nothing possible to do overnight, especially in livestock, but I want to tell you that you believe that we are really doing what is possible at this point. You asked for subsidies. Some MPs have said that subsidies are not paid. I must say, despite the difficult economic situation we inherited, we pay off subsidies. We pay them in accordance with the current Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development and with the applicable regulation for this year. We have fully paid off subsidies relating to support for plant production measures. It's those famous 6,000 dinars per hectare. In that sense, in this year we paid 11 billion dinars. We're paying for milk premiums. We completely paid off the third quarter of about 4.6 billion dinars. Other payments in terms of fuel disbursement, for fertilisers, payments of livestock measures are ongoing according to the maturity dynamics. No one mentioned that these subsidies were reduced, that they should be abolished by budget rebalance. Once again I say, the government had a lot of understanding for agriculture and all the subsidies were left. So they'll be paid in accordance with the acts I've already cited. Someone mentioned announcements of suspension of subsidies in the following year. The subsidies and premiums will not be lifted. No one mentions the termination. The only thing we've been thinking about is that the assets of the agrarian budget that are 5% of the budget are being spent more rationally. In that sense, we propose and propose and analyse that future production of subsidies is given by those who have up to 20 hectares, but also by those who have 100 and over 100 hectares, only by 20 hectares. We have also been thinking about what MP Djukanovic says, that the granting of subsidies for state agricultural land should be abolished. This is not because we do not want to subsidise further, but simply the assets of the agrarian budget have to be spent rationally. We subsidized plant production for several years in this current form, and the result is 30% of the share of livestock production in total agricultural production. It's not okay, it's not good. Ratar production must be related to livestock production. If I don't continue to owe the subsidies, there'll be an opportunity for us to talk about it too. Today it's a whole other law. As far as cooperatives are concerned, a lot of MPs have mentioned this topic, and we are aware of how important it is for small agricultural producers to join together, to strengthen, to strengthen, because only as such can they be a more significant factor in the market for agricultural and food products. I have to say that it's up to the new Ministry Act, and the new Ministry Act was passed on 26 April this year, right next to the formation of the government, so, only with this new law, the Co-operation Act was transferred to the work of our ministry. Until then, this law was in the works of the Ministry of Industry. So, after our ministry was formed, we got back the Co-operation Act and we took this issue seriously, taking into account its importance and importance for agricultural production. We formed a task force. It is working intensively to prepare the new law and I simply hope and expect that we will be able to make you very soon with a proposal that we would naturally refer to as a public debate. This is about what I have singled out as the most important when it comes to the Law on Pre-financing, and all the details concerning the content of the contract and the appearance of contracts under the already announced amendments at the next session. In short, when it comes to another extremely important law, which has also caused great attention to the MPs, I would only briefly cite some of the dilemmas of the MPs who are being delivered here before us. For example, MP Arpad Fremond asked the question of fishing concessions. As far as fishing areas are concerned, fishing areas will be defined as a solution to the establishment of fishing areas. The concession of fishing areas can be conducted exclusively in the event, which will follow the establishment of fishing areas, in accordance with the new law and afterwards, the competition that will follow. Small fishing areas have a certain problem of self-sustainability, as the number of licences sold must ensure the financing of fishermen's area. It's the same thing we're going to do in the next period, and those little fishing associations won't be ignored. As for fishing associations, they often asked, not only the Arpad, but the other MPs, the questions -- how much did they participate in the drafting of this law? I must say that fishing associations were active participants in all public debates, although public debates were all held before the formation of this government, but I must say that although this bill was finished before our formation, I also had the opportunity to talk to representatives of fishing associations about the details of the proposed law, and we understood very well. I didn't get the impression that they had anything against the proposed solutions, they even told me that they were invited themselves and that they participated in the draft law. On that occasion, they only informed me of the situation on the ground which requires that the laws be adopted as soon as possible and that the obligations and responsibilities of those managing fishing areas are defined more precisely. They pointed out to me that the fish fund was significantly destitute. They indicated that there are major problems on the ground and that new measures are needed to stop unauthorized use and abuse of the fish fund. Dragan Jovanovic also asked a question about the fish fund. Article 6 defines the conditions for entry into the fishing zone. It provides that the fishing area may be subject to use other than the company and the public undertaking under the applicable law and other legal persons. That makes sense. It was our goal to expand the number of potential entities that could compete for the allocation of fishing areas, of course, if they meet the conditions prescribed by the competition. National MP Gordana Comic also had a lot of objections or questions. Member of the 14th Power of the Fisherman to photograph and record illicit actions and faces. A criminal law stipulates that a person who unauthorizedly makes a photo, film or other recording will be punished. So, the accent is that it's unauthorized. This law gives that authority, i.e. The authorisations of fishermen to perform that operation shall be prescribed, so as to mean, the recording of the face in illicit actions, the theft of fish, etc. Otherwise, I have to say that this bill has passed the entire legal procedure, passed by the Committee on Constitutional and Legislative Affairs. The justice ministry and the MUP gave a positive opinion on the draft law. It is also a response to article 11 which also Mrs. Komic apostrophe. As far as the claim for compensation is concerned, Article 16 is not a new member of the law. In practice, this law has been applied before. So, the law that was practically prescribed by the previous law. Experiences from the field say that this article works perfectly, i.e. this law works perfectly according to this article. This request shall be submitted by the user of the fishing area after the special procedure has been completed. Only after the liability of the legal person, entrepreneur or natural person has been determined can the user submit a claim for damages to him. As regards the amount of compensation, the amount of compensation for damage to the fish fund shall be prescribed by means of a sublegal act. The fee received on this basis is the user's duty to use dedicated use for the protection of the fish fund. The use method of the user is required to notify the competent ministry, i.e. the competent regional authority. I guess it's long enough for me to read to you. We'll talk about that when it comes to amendments. As for Nada Lazic and Gordana Comic, too, mentioned the issue of the budget fund, Article 7, the competent ministry initiated a proposal on the education of the budget fund for the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund. This shows our positive view of the need for such a fund to exist. In order to comply with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, which prescribed the introduction of the programme model of the budget, the Ministry of Finance suggested that the provision should be deleted and the use of compensation from the special purpose account of the Republic, i.e. the province. Otherwise, the question of the fund is a question that is often asked and we often have dilemmas about how to finance environmental protection, or environmental science, whether to return the fund. My co-workers at the Ministry have no dilemma. They're about to be a fund, but I'm aware when they're mentioned in the funding fund, the term fund, which is why people are the ones who say -- say how much it takes, we'll program it, we'll predict it, the fund used to be, you know how the funds were used from the fund, we can't go back to that state. The fund was abolished before 2012 due to non-intentional spending. Someone before us was such that he was spending his resources properly, and now we, neither guilty nor debtor, bear the consequences of such an act or act. As far as crimes are concerned, the questions of the fishermen’s crimes have often been mentioned. The offences referred to in Article 11 shall be those closely linked to the nature of the work carried out by fishermen, i.e. the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, i.e. the activities of the users. Also, criminals, when serving time, must be integrated into society. These are some legal provisions that have been incorporated into certain provisions of this law and which have drawn attention. It's legal comments. To answer more to Ivan Jovanovic, and I will respond to the others in the next sighting when we talk about the amendments. Enough of this, so we don't hold you back. The ones who criticized the most, they're gone. As for Ivan Jovanovic, he asked about associations. This law is the Act on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, not the Fisheries Act. Also, sports fishermen' associations were present and participated in the draft law, giving them the opportunity to participate in public debates. This law allows associations to participate in a competition for the assignment, i.e. a concession to the use of fishing areas, as the circle of persons who can compete is expanding. The laws don't stop associations. They continue to exist and contribute to joint work in their domain. One more time, that's it. All the other questions in the context of the amendment, I hope, next week, on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-19-0.u14080	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. We're done with today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10:00.
