ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6800	Well, I don't understand why...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6801	No, I'm waiting for you to open up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6802	Therefore, Article 39(3). In the course of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group may authorise one member to represent a parliamentary group for a certain point, which the president of the parliamentary group in writing informs the president of the National Assembly until the hearing is opened on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6803	Alexandra Jerkov, I have this notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6804	I know, but what happens in case someone who's authorized earlier, something happens to him, God forbid...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6805	You're the president of the group, and you have a deputy, and it's a clear Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6806	I know, but we'd like you to accept what we suggested, considering that this practice existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6807	Thank you. You're here, I believe in your abilities, and you have a deputy. The Rules of Procedure are clear, so we should change three people now. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I think I've been very tolerant of your MP group as well. I'm asking you to have the same relationship with me. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6808	Thank you, Madam President. Our intention was to fix Article 4 so we are in a sentence that reads - public information is free and is not subject to censorship, we added a word - and autocensorship. In the principle debate, we criticised, or suggested that our opinion is that there is a self-censorship in Serbia today. The explanation we received about the government says - the amendment is rejected for the reason that autocensorship is not the subject of the law, but is a matter of the personal integrity of each individual. I agree, however, with the Serbian press code, the definition that self-censorship is considered a violation of professional and ethical standards. I don't think these two words will matter, but at least the state, or government, will accept that autocensorship exists, or perhaps by refusing this amendment to autocensorship. I still think that the discipline of journalists, which I cited in the principle debate, has led many to apply self-censorship as a form of protection. Once again, I ask you to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6809	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6810	I suggest that this amendment is not accepted for reasons which are clearly specified in the response we received from the Government and which the promoter himself quoted. So this is definitely not a matter that needs to be regulated through the law itself. If we agree that this is a matter of personal integrity and an individual question, how will it be asked as a man? If, then, he wants to set himself up some kind of restriction that sets out exclusively alone, then it's definitely not something that needs to be solved within the law. We can discuss whether or not there are such phenomena in society, but whether they should be a legal solution without being able to follow them, and without the need for the law to do so, because it's a personal matter again, I think it's more than clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6811	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6812	Thank you, Your Honor. I simply have to react here, otherwise I respect the distinguished colleague Karavidić, because she was really on the Committee itself very constructive, but introducing a term of self-censorship, it's kind of an insult to the press, because that would mean that the journalist was trying to make a text or contribution, he was working on who knows how much of it, and then I censored myself out of pure peace and pulled it back. Now it's supposed to be regulated as a law. It's completely pointless, as we know if anyone's even introducing some kind of censorship, only to spy on his hard drive, maybe or see what he wrote, so he won't let go, and that's completely lame. Why am I talking about this? Because, somehow, I was left unsaid, the current Information Act, which otherwise the government then brought, in character and in part of the MPs across the street, introduced full censorship in the media, and only to retain power because Mladjan Dinkic then conditioned that such a law must be passed and then, of course, voted for one such law that was condemned by all, the OSCE, Sasa Jankovic as the protector of citizens and all news associations. They've absolutely all condemned it, and they've relied most on censorship. So, the law that's completely censorous is currently at work, and now there's a term being sought here, auto-censorship, you know, I'm really going to go into the thoughts of some journalist or anyone I can't, and I'm not inclined to insult fellow journalists, that they're inclined to withdraw their own texts after so much effort. So, really, this kind of thing is completely pointless and it's just impossible to even regulate the law and that you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6813	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6814	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fully accepting the arguments of the previous two MPs, I just want to add something else to the definition of the auto-censorship mentioned here. Autocensorship has also been mentioned several times on the Committee on Culture, informing the distinguished Member from the DS, trying to bind autocensorship to the so-called censorship, with it being conducted in such a way that the government or representatives of the government and police, or already who, conducts censorship, then reflects on the self-censorship of journalists in Serbia. That, first of all, is not the case and anyone who's been doing this job in the last ten years knows it doesn't work that way. Autocensorship in Serbia is, above all, a product of bribery and corruption. Autocensorship in Serbia is carried out through marketing space, through advertising space, through the financial situation in the media, and a solution for auto-censorship needs to be sought. The moment you do a text or a show, and there's a marketing mag, there's a caller's sponsor and he says you don't have a contract anymore, there's actually the root of the main problems. I am surprised that these proposals come from a parliamentary group or come from an opposition that recently had a president who can teach at Harvard how to conduct auto-censorship and marketing blackmail in Serbia. So, there's ignorance, it's quite all right, but you have ways of informing yourself. Ask your president today, he'll explain how this works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6815	Please, don't let anyone attack the MPs because they're submitting amendments. It is the right of every MP to submit an amendment in the way he knows how to do it and with the content he wants. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6816	I will address the minister again, not the other colleagues, and I hope that I will not pass as colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic yesterday, that I will not be charged with obstruction. I mean, if the code says that autocensorship is a violation of professional standards, why can't the formulation of autocensorship enter the Information Act? That's number one. So it's the Minister's question again. Once again, I'd just like to back up my claim. If the head of the "News" board happens on the day when the government is formed to express its opinion on how it sees the ministers and functions of the government and then is removed, if the journalist Spajic and many others find themselves in a situation to be replaced after some time because they have delivered their opinion, gentlemen, it is called auto-censorship. So, they're afraid to give their opinion. I will state in the end the orchestrated attack on RTS editors, where the Father's Administration reacted by saying that the orchestrated attack on Prime Minister Vukic was being carried out. Please, that's my opinion and I'm not giving up on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6817	It's some sort of fictional example, seeing as how you've mixed something up. The Minister called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6818	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I must draw your attention that the code you have read is only regulation, and the law is a legal act. It seems to me that this very law has created a framework that can be strengthened, among other things, and only the regulatory bodies, as it represents, let's say, the press union. It seems to me at this point that focusing on the autocensorship, which is actually impossible to sanction. How do you intend to punish some journalist who, in your opinion, censored himself? I think we're going into a debate here about something that happened a month ago, a year, three years, five years ago. We have created such a framework that can allow far better and safer positions and journalists and their associations and make a far better system of information and a more objective system of information for our citizens, and we are now passing a new law here after a law in which many provisions have been declared unconstitutional. I hope I gave you a satisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6819	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6820	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mrs. Karavidic, I said that I like to talk to you, because I think you're constructive. I understand your insistence on this amendment, but what you just instructed, it's not self-censorship. This may be some examples of censorship, but since you said last time you knew who was behind the board's shift in "Evening News", I invite you to tell us the name and name of the man behind the shift of the head of the "Evening News" board, which is before I know the man, because he was my editor and I consider him even a good journalist, if you really want to know. I'd like you to tell us, not like this, go public, and then you won't tell who's behind it. I invite you to say the name and last name, who is this person who allegedly censors journalists here. Perhaps you will recall some periods not so long ago, when, for example, a head of the Bureau's information service had thrown out a television for press conferences or, for example, the editor-in-chief of the daily 'Alo'. You may not remember that, but directly from the Serbian presidency at the time, while Mr Tadic was president, a warrant arrived to replace the editor. Here, I tell you the name and last name of what it was like. I would really ask you to say the name and the last name, a nice example, eclatively and that we all know who's behind any media editor's shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6821	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6822	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. "The envoy cannot address the other MP directly." Please, a colleague spoke directly to another MP, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. It also says in the Rules of Procedure that if the president wants to take part in the debate, he should sit down and report for the word, not use the place where he is sitting and from there to participate in the debate. You just gave yourself the right to participate directly in the debate in a way contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6823	I took this as a request. I will try as a robot to read – a member of this, a member of this, and everyone will be pleased, I hope. As for direct address, you're sort of right, but I've been really trying more than a hundred days to get the MPs to talk to me alone. It's a little problem with the MPs. We have no provision where MPs violate the Rules of Procedure, so think about it when you work on the new text as the former nomenclature in 2009 or 2011 envisioned the work of this Assembly and now we all suffer. Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Janko Veselinović. You know there's also an abuse of the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6824	Article 109. The notice shall be made to the People's MP, the Chairman, position 4, if he addresses the other People's Parliament directly. You have nothing to force the Messengers of the people. You have a Rules of Procedure and you need to apply it. If you need to read it again, read it. We can wait for you to read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6825	You don't have to. I know all that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6826	If you know the Rules of Procedure, then there is no need for you and the MPs to discuss the application of the Rules of Procedure for a hundred days. It is the Rules of Procedure brought in at a time when you were not a People's MP, but this Rules of Procedure is still in force. The laws to be passed, sublegal acts, including the Rules of Procedure, which practically regulates the work of the National Assembly, shall be valid until you change it. Since you haven't changed it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6827	I can't change it. You know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6828	This can be done by your parliamentary group, or the ruling coalition, or the National Assembly, when a new one is prepared. Since you have not prepared a new one, I ask you, not only in this case, but otherwise to apply the Rules of Procedure and not to enforce the Rules of Procedure by not being able to apply it. If you're not capable, resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6829	I won't resign. No, no. I won't resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6830	You'll have to apply the Rules of Procedure, if you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6831	Do you agree that I'm applying the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6832	Don't threaten.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6833	No, no. I'm just saying-- do we agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6834	If you are unable to apply the Rules of Procedure, resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6835	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6836	Now I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure to Mr Djukanovic's speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6837	It's my disposition whether or not I'm going to apply the fines. I don't want to apply the fines. Yesterday, an MP, whom you know very well, lived with him for 24 hours, approached the speaker without my approval. That would be drastic, and I'm thinking 250 MPs, because otherwise I'd keep working with one 49 to 50, and you know who it refers to. We'd be very happy to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that what you want? (Yes) The President knows the Rules of Procedure well. I will not bear my resignation, nor can the MPs resign because of other people's mistakes. I want to go into the history of this House as someone who will work well with the MPs, and they will not be punished without undue need, no matter how much pressure you press me to punish the MPs. Please enter the record that I will resist this challenge, as far as I can, to the border of courtesy. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I fully understand you. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6838	I'll try as soon as possible. You have already entered the history of the Serbian parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6839	You've been given the word after the amendment, and in history I entered the day of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6840	That's right. That's exactly what I wanted...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6841	No, I'll be warned by your colleague next door if we don't talk about the amendment right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6842	So autocensorship cannot be sanctioned because it is an internal and psychological process. That's right. However, if we do not put it into the law now, we are violating the code and violating the media strategy, as well as many international acts that have brought it to this point, so if you want opinions brought to the EU. If it's not something subject to sanctions, it doesn't mean it can't get into the legal proposal. If that were true, then words of security, justice, honesty and other legal standards could be thrown out because there is no sanctions. There's no sanction for not saving, because not saving is a personal relationship that someone has or doesn't have. In this case, car censorship, I'd do a deviation here, in Serbian it's called cowardice, but it's not a journalistic cowardice. It is the cowardice of a dozen editors who have remained, have not been replaced, and who today do not allow any information, except the most minimal, about what the opposition says, to appear in the media. This cowardice is being transmitted to journalists, who know there's no need to offer material, because the editor, Mr. or Mrs., won't publish it. Speaking of the lady, speaking of the ladies who replaced the editors, says one distinguished colleague, I know who she means. It was at the time of Boris Tadic. Now that system has been brought to perfection. Now no one has to call anyone else. Why doesn't that lady bother them? I personally know her, she is now one of the executives of the company's directors who's called, I'm not sure, but she's being led by Mr. Veselinović and that same lady who did it, allegedly, as they say, has been replacing her, is now in your camp. It controls all the media and all the seconds. The one who says here in the Assembly that there was a dark censorship in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6843	Are you using MPs' time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6844	Yeah, but I don't know why... I said it right away. I don't understand how it's possible, when we talk about media laws, that this Assembly is acting like an isolated box, covered in Styrofoam, where there's no cry for freedom coming from the outside. Are any of you watching RTS? Do you follow the state media? Do you follow "Pink"? Have you seen anyone from the opposition on those TV stations, except that it's one or two seconds, and it's extremely benign? And now one of you tells me it's such a great, professional assessment that it's not there. One who says that during Boris Tadic's time was more dark, than today, he has a serious reality problem, a serious problem because then it was known who he shouldn't be against, and I admit it, although I wasn't involved, I wasn't involved, but that's why other things could be written. People were on shows, and I'm giving you a reward now that you see me on RTS to host. I'm giving a reward to whoever you want. You're telling me now there's no censorship in Serbia. You're telling me now that these editors don't sit in their offices and shake because they won't take that pressure. It's better not to let anything go, it's better that there's no one here, but only what the Prime Minister was yelling at while he was giving a lesson in the assembly. There are no other questions, but just noding the opposition's head. Now you want everyone, okay, I don't know about the others, but that DS behaves, that we're a toy in your Styrofoam box and we're telling you how great everything is. You did not apply the strategy. You don't apply the code. We ask you nicely – how do you put one term in one act, and you do not recognise that term in another act, but you say this is a legal act? Do you know what a legal act is? There's also a political will. That's what brought the distinguished gentlemen from most to perfection. They say he has political will. Yesterday they say – criticise with your strength. Then give us a chance to criticize. You want us to criticise the halls and in Takovska, yell at the building, just like they did. We'll do that, too. I'm telling them now, I'm telling them publicly. Does anyone think, Mr. Minister, that norms will define life to the limit... You know very well what's going on, you know very well that the lady who's marked as, I don't know, the devil is now the person of the greatest confidence in Mr. Veseinović's regime firm. That same one they're accusing of DS. That's your problem. There's a lot of D.S.A. defects in your house, so when you start counting why we're not rolling, you suddenly start to stick your finger in your eye to push. So I urge and appeal that through the adoption of this amendment we show awareness of what is happening in our society, to show awareness that some appear, unfortunately, exist, to adopt this amendment, because I stand behind it, to show that you are better than the DS was then, if you have the capacity for it. Please, man, no intention of fighting. I'm sorry to be looking your way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6845	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6846	Madam President, I'm in a great deal of trouble. I hope you and your other colleagues and Mr. Secretary will help me. Was the previous speaker yesterday from 16:00 to 1900 hours, when the Prime Minister of the Government was present, Mr. Vukic, had car censorship, so he couldn't enter the O.R. or fear the prime minister, because he didn't speak before, and he doesn't speak now with the power of arguments, but with the power of hatred? With the power of hate he doesn't choose the means, so he goes into private companies and private companies, and that gives him the right, sometimes democratic right. I don't understand how a private firm can be called a regime firm and how can a member of the public be affected by who will work in a private company or not? The second right that has been violated is that all journalists who have one honorable, difficult and dangerous occupation, not only in these areas but anywhere on the globe are called cowards. That's embarrassing, that's terrible. Especially from that man who hasn't defined whether he has auto-censorship or has fear because he has no arguments. In any case, on yesterday from 16,00-19,00, when the prime minister and the entire government here responded and could respond to such nonsense and accusations, the autocensorship of Mr Stefanovic worked. Or it was fear. So I would ask you, both you and everyone present to answer me what is at work with Mr. Stefanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6847	It is better for MP Borislav Stefanovic to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6848	This is a replica, you know. This is one of those situations where I'm supposed to be here to justify myself to someone, which, of course, I won't do. But I'll give you the right to think whatever you want. Really, without wanting to get into a fight. As far as I'm concerned, you gentlemen just think we're full of fear, that we're self-censored, that we can't. You know, there's a people's expression, no offense to anyone -- I'm just getting my pants off by Alexander Vukic. Really, I was so scared...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6849	Talk to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6850	Otherwise, I'm famous for being afraid of him and his moves. But I have respect for the Prime Minister's institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6851	It's not nice what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6852	It is not nice what Mr. Vukic accused the Albanians yesterday of having to pay for the electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6853	All Serbian citizens must pay for electricity. This is already an insult to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6854	If you'll allow me to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6855	Absolutely. But I have to react. The MP from the first bench looks at me with disapproval.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6856	All citizens have to pay for the electricity, Madam President, but it's a little awkwardly exploited, you remember the debate, because, please, save your reactions for your organs, so it's unfortunate when a man who hasn't paid for the utility in 15 months says that. That's a little awkward. But, okay. I have one more thing to say. The Democratic Party does not want to participate in something that is a violation of the reputation of the Assembly and the government. I heard there was a man who was yelling at people, that he was behaving arrogantly. I just can't believe that you as president allowed it, and I know you wouldn't let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6857	I don't get it. Are you replicating me or Mr. Babic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6858	You said I had to look at you, what I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6859	It's not me. It's an MP from the first bench, one of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6860	Excuse me, you said five minutes ago that you were asking one more of all the MPs not to speak to each other but to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6861	Yeah, but you're just mentioning me and you're not looking for a replica of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6862	Shouldn't I ask you, as president of the assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6863	I can't give my word to myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6864	That's not the point. I'm asking you rhetorically. You understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6865	Otherwise it's been two minutes and 32 seconds, you've replicated both me and Granny, and I don't know who else. Thank you very much, I'm sure you'll get the word, if necessary. So, the replica was caused by Borko Stefanovic, Babic replied, then Borko Stefanovic responded. The word is Zoran Babic. Without anger, We said, "Who challenges, ends with the other, so beware?" Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6866	I thank you for your answer. And it has been confirmed that there is no autocensorship, but that there is fear of lack of arguments, and that is why it is preferable to choose a corner of this Assembly, the darker and the further away from this hall, from which it can be tweeted, to assess whether someone behaves arrogantly or acts arrogantly and from there, from that corner, from that eclipse, you know how brave some MPs are. You know how, when they stand in front of the mirror and say, "Not that I'm going to tell him anything, I would say anything to him, but he wouldn't be able to answer me." But the eclipse. There's no debate here. They're stuck in a mouse hole, because they say some things that have nothing to do with the truth, have nothing to do with reality, and then when we can debate in this room, totally democratic, without any restrictions, and that's what yesterday's debate showed, we stayed until half past 12 last night, and I'm grateful to the amendments that they've allowed us to debate the good laws for so long, and today's amendments that we'll be able to debate today, and the SNS has the will and the strength to debate in the right place, and not in front of the mirror, in the eclipse, playing much bigger and much more significant than it is. I am ordering Mr Stefanovic – the next last Thursday of the month will come, just as it goes in the Rules of Procedure. It'll be the government again. The entire government was in parliament last night, and the DS parliamentary groups were gone. Probably if they were practicing in front of some mirrors so they'd ask, if they were right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6867	It was Gordana Komic, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6868	I apologize to Mrs. Comic, really. But that's not the way. That's not the direction. So, thank you for the answer for not being autocensorship, because the autocensorship is gone... ... But fear of lack of arguments does.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6869	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6870	There's really no need for words like that. Mr. Grandmother...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6871	Please don't. We said we wouldn't speak directly. I'm trying, but you can't remember. But I won't punish you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6872	Thank you. Both you and I and all MPs are aware that the Rules of Procedure who have written the DS and who have significant shortcomings, especially when someone thinks they will be in power forever, and then go into opposition, which will happen to you too, so in that situation, this Rules of Procedure is extremely clear, precise and largely protected by the Prime Minister that he can speak as much as he wants, without any restrictions. That's a fact. Therefore, both the gentleman who spoke, and you and I know that when Mr. Prime Minister takes his word, he can speak as much as he wants and no one can answer him. As for the budzaks, the eclipses, the mirrors, I won't answer that, except this time I'll invite any of them publicly, but the first and the biggest and most important, and that's Mr. Wolfich, let them choose whatever television they want whenever they want...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6873	Okay, I'll pass. This is Parliament, we're talking about amendments. Believe that Serbian citizens are not interested in this at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6874	No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6875	No one was in the mouse hole. I didn't recognize anyone from the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6876	That's right, you haven't checked the mouse holes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6877	No, they're not in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6878	I want to tell you one thing. It is not right when you give an MP the opportunity to question someone's integrity and courage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6879	He didn't say who.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6880	No, please. The gentleman spoke very clearly. When I say that courage is proven by actions and that anywhere in the same minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6881	It's been two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6882	You took my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6883	How many more do you want? Here you go. Let me ask Parliament how many tens of minutes do you want for replicas?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6884	I wish I had two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6885	Thank you. We're really getting into some bullshit debate. Thank you very much, there will be opportunities. We have 250 amendments, if we continue to discuss the quality of the law like this, we will really show the citizens of Serbia what parliament is and without muscle holes. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6886	I will refer to your comment that truly Serbian citizens are not interested in this kind of discussion. The media laws are on the agenda. We are talking today by amendments, about what is necessary to improve, about the law and the solutions offered under this bill. What MPs of opposition parties say and not in the interest of improving this law and new amendments really shouldn't take up time in this assembly. What is very interesting and unusual in this House is that MPs of a particular party use their time to defend the amendment of the other party. That's a little unusual for me. I am a young MP, though. The remarks that could have been heard in the past 45 minutes really do not stand and are one game with Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6887	I'm asking you about the amendment. We're trying to get back to matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6888	What are the media when we talk about auto-censorship and should it be inserted into any solutions under this law? It is said that there are not enough representatives of the opposition in the media. Is it just time in television programs that several television stations are viewed as the only space where someone should show up? And with this bill of law, and before, it's clear what the media is. You can't just say that if you're not in the first three media stations, let's say that you're not there and that there's censorship or self-censorship in the country. Let's not talk about what's absolutely got you, or the opposition's representative, in all the media. I just want to tell the citizens that there are thirty television teams and representatives of different media in the hall of Serbia's Assembly on a daily basis and an absolute number of press conferences are held by opposition representatives. This can also be confirmed by the Serbian Parliament's press service. All of what they have the opportunity to say almost 24 hours from the Serbian Parliament is within the Serbian media in a wide range of ways, whether they are printed, audio or electronic media. So none of it stands. Whether or not the Prime Minister was yelling depends on how much someone can stand it when he listens. I have a very sensitive hearing, and I didn't notice the Prime Minister yelling, perhaps he spoke a little more vigorously. As far as paying for electricity, it's one civic duty. He only asked, reminded that all citizens of Serbia living in the country's territory should perform their civic duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6889	Did you waste your time with the group or yours from the authorized? From the group. Thank you. You have 50 seconds left of the two minutes you have on the amendment. The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6890	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just like to draw your attention that the press associations have commented on the bill and made certain proposals through the amendments. None of the news associations have proposed to amend this point of law and introduce words – point, autocensorship into the law and I think we should be more confident to treat all journalists' associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6891	The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6892	Of course, this amendment should not be accepted. We've heard all the arguments earlier, especially the arguments made by the promoter in the second attempt, which actually speak contrary to what he stood for in the written part of the text, because what I don't know is, some example of a replaced editor, a deputy editor in some private media, can cause some kind of self-censorship, so it happens everywhere. Change the editor of SNN, change the editor of BBC, what now should be called the possibility that everyone else working in that media is causing auto-censorship? What's important is to say, so one is the law, the other is the code, the third is the strategy. You know where it can be nice and I think the minister explained it very well. Now we've got confirmation of what the press associations said. We know that the EU has supported the law and the European Commission, we know that we have the support of everyone for these laws, for all three laws, for all relevant factors, and for the Council of Europe and the OSCE, for all who have wondered. It's been a long public debate for a long time, and I don't see why we're wasting any more time on it. I say again, a huge number of amendments like yesterday. Come on, we'll work, we'll discuss, of course, that MPs have the right, but one thing is the fact -- these laws bring the media picture in Serbia to the position needed to be part of the EU, a large European family. That's what's most important, to standardize it once, to finish, and we've tried over the past years and decades and we haven't succeeded. Now we finally succeed in passing this set of laws, and I think we should all participate in it constructively. I'm not saying it's not a constructive proposal, and it's not, of course, the right of the MPs to think that this should go into the law, but most of course it does, and it's the very profession that didn't suggest that something like that should be found in the law, and I don't think there's any more than one argument to say, now that there's some here. It is also unserious if we look from that position, if we protect our institutions and say so – I am ready with the premiere on the show. I, not as a member of the SNS, but as a national MP, would also resent the Prime Minister and would not consider him a serious prime minister if he sat down on a show with a member of the parliamentary group. You can't do that anywhere. So the head of the parliamentary group can be with the head of the second parliamentary group on the show, he can't be with the prime minister. There's a chance here when it's being debated, to discuss with the Prime Minister at the National Assembly, where he belongs. The media don't serve for that kind of thing. Then when it's said it's going to turn out -- here's the pressure, no, there's no auto-censorship, etc., which is not true at all. Some things are done, certain things are done in civilised, democratic society, and some things are not done. That is why this amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6893	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6894	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my colleague's discussion encouraged me to report on this amendment and give an additional explanation as to why we submitted it. That there is self-censorship, even when reported from this house, says the event that was in the previous term. When we had a National Conference of the Women's Parliamentary Network, which included over 150 participants, reporters reported on all the media only that the national conference was opened by Parliament Speaker Mr Stefanovic. No mention has been made of a colleague who was the first co-ordinator of the women's parliamentary network, and I, who was the second co-ordinator, or ambassadors or other numerous guests, all out of fear, as it is known who only can be mentioned. Secondly, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question. If it was so important and if it is so important to you that you respect the opinions of the Association of Journalists, why did you not follow other questions? I don't think they called here just because there's an auto-censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6895	Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6896	Just wanted to make a few things clear, because there were a lot of good amendments I'd seen among the opposition's amendments. However, for this amendment, I believe that it should not be accepted, not because it comes from the ranks of the opposition, but because this amendment would significantly damage this member. This member of the law is good, unlike some of whom I believe are not so good in the media or in the public of Serbia, but this member is really a journalist and public information. Censorship is something that is particularly visible in society and can be recognized and sanctioned. Autocensorship is the assumption that it exists, we can neither prove it nor determine it, nor see it. Autocensorship is, above all, not only a psychological act, autocensorship is a moral act, no matter what moral act, it is a moral act and it is for everyone, for journalists and people personally, and each of us is under self-censorship every day in all situations where we have any public address or communication, interaction with other people. It just can't be sanctioned by law. It can't be predicted and it shouldn't be prescribed by law. These categories can't stand in the law. This particular member of the law is one of the members who should not be changed, but to be adopted just as proposed. We'll discuss others further.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6897	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6898	Thank you very much. I don't doubt the best intentions of the amendment, but I disagree with the concept of self-censorship. Autocensorship is one part, it's actually the result of censorship. We in Serbia do not have censorship at this time, we have torture over the media and on citizens through all media, without exception. Until a few weeks ago, I might have been able to make some exceptions, but now they're gone. So I don't think the amendment is an adequate measure of what's going on in this country. Censorship has been practically a permanent phenomenon in this country in the last century and a half. If that's what we're talking about, then probably throughout history. A small period of time when both public services and independent media and private media had the full freedom to say what they think they should say was at a time when the Serbian government was led by Zoran Djindjic, who, by the way, would have turned 62 on today. After that, censorship was restored. That's what Kostunica started, and it was promoted by Tadic and was doctored by Vukic. At the highest level of censorship in Europe today, if we exclude Belarus and perhaps some of us far away, but friendly countries, such as North Korea, outside Europe. What is important for Serbian society is that all those who wish to rule the Serbian society have the truth resist it. First of all, it's the work of the journalists themselves. That's why I don't accept the expression auto-censorship. Everyone must resist the pressure that is unnatural, the pressure that is illegal, the pressure that is against morality, the pressure that is against everything that was meant to bring us the 21st century. Of course that's the responsibility of NGOs. Of course, huge responsibility for fighting censorship has opposition, but the biggest responsibility is in power. From the example I showed earlier, it is clear that the government should allow media freedom. That's why, in principle, I said that this law represents, in the text, how it was given and with the amendments that we have proposed, a good basis for a legitimate fight against censorship. But in Serbia, there are many good laws that are not implemented. The obligation of the authorities is to show on a specific case whether it is ready to enforce the laws it adopts. The fact that some law has the support of news associations, professional associations, the European Union, the Council of Europe, I don't know who, that's a pointless argument. Every law that has come to the Serbian Parliament since 5 October has been supported either by the European Commission or by the Council of Europe. All the laws, or almost all of them. And this last media law, which was bad, had support. And the Privatisation Act, the first one since 2001, had the support of both the IMF and the World Bank and all. It's a floscula. No one else in Serbia will put in front of Serbia and Serbian lawmakers something that does not have the open support of an international institution. But it's hypocritical, it's only in the part of the discussion, and in the part of the application we have again a Middle Ages that lasted in Serbia in the 1990s. I hope this law makes a small move towards creating conditions for something to be done. I repeat, the biggest job for this censorship to become part of history is in power, opposition, the NGO sector and journalists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6899	The word has Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6900	Replica, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6901	Replica? On what grounds? The president of the party is mentioned, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6902	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6903	Then Article 104(2). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6904	Thank you. I've been told a lot of stuff here, and it doesn't really surprise me. What is a fact and what is true, is that, in the opinion of many international organisations, valid organisations and media representatives, Serbia is second to the freedom of the media between all countries in the former Yugoslavia, right behind Slovenia, that we are in a better place than EU members, such as Croatia. That's what the fact is. Free interpretation of someone that we're in, I don't know what century I can only compare to that when newspapers are torn in front of TV cameras, that's how a message is sent to do the same to journalists, and then it looks like an Inquisition to me. It has been said here that torture has been done against the media and on the citizens. I think that torture against citizens was done until 2012, when thanks to the list on which the previous speaker was very pleased, it seems to me that he was also a candidate for prime minister, that this policy, that these parties left 400,000 people without a job. I think it's torture over the citizens of Serbia, and that torture over the media and a clear message was sent to the media when in front of TV cameras a daily newspaper, we can get along or disagree, but when they split up in this way they call for lynch media and lynch journalists, which is forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6905	The word is Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6906	Yes, the replica, of course. No comment on the previous speaker. Anyone in Serbia who wants to understand what's going on around him and has basic abilities, and that's a minimum of reason and a little intelligence, knows that what I've been tearing up isn't a newspaper. It's being sold at the newsstand, but for the people I hang out with, for the people who hold onto me, it's hard to call it a newspaper. It's like, say, you have a TV station where the morning program is run by some MP who was successful while he was on the radio, when no one could see him, and then he went on TV. Imagine a state where there is no censorship, where a member of the ruling coalition runs the morning program of some television. Second, there's one big fear of torture here, of those who do torture. Yesterday, a bander bond was mentioned here. Someone mentioned that I tied some people to the bandits. That's not normal. To whoever said that, which is due to the abnormality of the same, I can recommend that medicine has progressed since the 1990s, when I allegedly tied someone up, and that there are new means for this diagnosis now, that there is new therapy. Tieping up to bandits and shirts that buckle on your back is no longer therapy for it. If anyone needs therapy for the disease they're complaining about, I'm willing to refer it to the relevant experts in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6907	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6908	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 107. - Parliament's dignity, because colleagues are certain journalists here, and someone insults those journalists because they say they work for the media that aren't newspapers, they just buy on the street. In doing so, he insults his colleagues with his senseless illusions, and he complains to me, among other things, that I was working on a radio like that, where he otherwise visited when no one wanted to take him anywhere, on any other media. But it speaks more of him. At least I did my job in life, like all of us, worked honestly, and someone was getting subsidies from the state, making vineyards, calling the people not to pay for electricity, so it was the same as some in Presevo and Bujanovac who don't pay for electricity either. What can I tell you about a man like that who's dead cold today who comes here and insults us all, and you don't react here at all? That speaks enough about him and media freedom, especially in the "Sabbe" action, where he was, among other things, one of the vedetas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6909	I can understand your reaction in that sense, but you also know that an MP at the time of the assembly cannot be held accountable for the word spoken. Therefore, in that sense, in my opinion, no injured Rules of Procedure, but I understand. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6910	Article 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. The MP has just questioned the dignity of this assembly, since it openly discriminates on one environment, unjustly and without any data. I would like to be given a report in this assembly for every municipality who owes and who is lagging behind in the payment of electricity, not so casually as to say that only Preshevo and Bujanovac are not paying. This is the follow-up to yesterday's show, again, to me completely unwarranted. I tell you openly discriminatoryly, when the achievement of minority and human rights is conditioned by a single problem that is universally present. So, please, give us some seriousness on this subject. I'm really ready to discuss the problem of paying for electricity here, but with arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6911	Mr. Halimi, I have to react to your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I've never noticed anyone here mentioning discrimination against the municipalities you're talking about. This is about an amendment that is concrete, talking to a car censorship that is now a problem here, and whether to accept it or not. I can't see at all, I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure at all. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure that you may be unhappy with yesterday's debate or I don't know from another time. I ask you, however, to be correct in that regard and to use this Rules of Procedure in that sense. He is so you can point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can't accept what wasn't. That's why I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it's your right to state whether you think it's time in the voting day that we make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yes or no? I need to hear from you, just please tell me do you want to make a statement to the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6912	Yes, of course we should plead, but I think you followed the predecessor that he mentioned in the negative context Presevo and Bujanovac. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Please, breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6913	Please, Mr. Riza, I assume you don't want us to plead, I won't even ask you again. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6914	I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rules 103 and 104 relating to the replica because a short-time colleague who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been more replicated, you gave him an unmistakable right to the replica. If he felt called, I apologize to him, he may not have heard well. I linked this lack of electricity to this in Nis when one MP, who has nothing to do with Albanians, urged the people not to pay for the electricity. I'm talking about all the non-payers. I agree, there are a lot of them in Belgrade, and there are them everywhere, and somehow there's a lot of them down there that haven't paid, and I'm saying, here's the MP from Nis called the people not to pay the electricity, so I don't see why they were called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6915	Mr. Djukanovic, please, I was in that direction and reacting. You're not listening to me. Mr. Djukanovic, you're not listening to me, and yet I ask you to listen to me, if you've already advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you must listen to me. So, in that direction, I acted and I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure on my part, only maybe I could interrupt it. Do you want me to plead - no. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6916	Injury of Article 107. President, please, this is where it began, the dignity of the National Assembly to be happening to the old who are amazing. I know now that you didn't have time to see it, I tried calling the secretary. So, Col. Pavicevic got up from his post and went to the Assembly staff to tell them what Mr. Halimi said, did he plead for something or not? Just make sure he's convinced about it, and you've figured out what and how to talk to Mr. Halimi. So, give the MPs here too much rights. There are procedures known and let us put order into the congregation as it is done. It's called mobing. It's even a felony. That you approach an employee to explain something to him. There's a procedure, there's a secretary, there's a chairman, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6917	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the honored guests, I can understand that some MPs have been very tired since yesterday's debate, I appeal to Article 107, which indicates that no demeaning of the dignity of the National Assembly is allowed, and I ask you to respond to this example to say, contrive, let's say, some mirage that probably exists with someone. Please don't let this case go unrecorded, the Honorable Chairman, be sure to put this thing on the stand, because this kind of thing can't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6919	I must say that the 107th member has already been used, however, I have allowed you to still advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but no matter what, I believe that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this case, and you have the right to plead. Yeah, so you do. All right. The word is given to the peoples by Ambassador Zoran Babic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6920	Mr. Chairman of the advertised violation of Rules of Procedure 109, although this could be advertised by almost the entire Rules of Procedure. A little while ago, when you were giving your word to your colleague Pavicevic, you know, I was never a prosecutor and a lawsuit I think it's a bad term, but if in the National Assembly a national MP in this case Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, pointing his finger, raises his hand to the SNS parliamentary group, does he say to me whether to Mr. Martinovic or to Mr. Shormaz, he says – I'll put you on a banner. Please, what does that mean? Is that torture? Should we, as MPs of the people, be afraid to enter this National Assembly? Are the threats normal? Is that the idea of democracy? There's a newspaper tearing up in front of the cameras, and then these people who buy these newspapers are insulted, calling them people with no intelligence. Now, here with fellow MPs, they are threatening to tie themselves up, or to the lamppost. You know what's on the lamppost. Will it remain undetected? I'm not looking for a sanction. This is for a public conviction. This is a mockery of the reputation of the National Assembly. This is a humiliation to democracy. This is a humiliation of human rights. What does this mean? That tomorrow you'll allow a weapon to be put in here, someone else's aim. Please follow the course of the session. We're ready to debate. We're ready to talk facts. We're ready to talk about the truth. But if someone else’s truth leads to the sending of another MP “to a lamppost, ” please, what does this look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6921	Just a little bit, please. Mr. Granny, I listened very carefully. I can't play a guard or an observer here, if anyone lifts a finger and how, and what his intentions are behind it, that I interpret what he meant in me, I can't do that. Please don't ask me to. If you're asking me to, I have to admit, then I'm not capable of doing this. You're asking for something impossible from me. Come on now, no matter what, I can see the hot atmosphere now, let's put the tone down. Don't lead us to anything. Now I'm going to have to apply my right to simply end the discussion of this member and move on to the next one, and I'd like you to bring it to an end and be correct. Mr. Zivkovic, what do you want? According to the Rules of Procedure? We also end the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6922	Rule 109, but if we're going to end the violations of the Rules of Procedure, that depends on the conduct of the MPs, that doesn't depend on any individual will. I think you should give a warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6923	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, Ambassador Babic used article 109 and you have no right to do so under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6924	He didn't use Article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6925	He used Article 109. So 107, 109, 103, 104 were used. So don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6926	Well, if someone says all the members, do you want to play now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6927	Thank you very much. We end the debate under this amendment and move on to the next amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragomir Karic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6928	Mr. Vice President, first of all, I would like to ask you to pass it on to Madam President of the Assembly, so that he does not comment on the presentation of the MPs in the future. Maybe I wouldn't react if she listened very carefully to what I said. As for Article 5, it reads – through the media information, ideas and opinions are published, about phenomena, events and personalities, about which the public has a legitimate interest in knowing, so the part that does not answer us naturally says – no matter how the information is obtained in accordance with the provisions of this law. My colleagues and I predicted that this part - regardless of how the information was obtained in accordance with the provisions of this law, was deleted and the words "which had been added in accordance with the law" were added instead. We have received an explanation of the Government, whether the Government did not have time, to explain a little more in detail or to give us more arguments, but the Government says - the amendment is rejected because the provision in the bill is more precise than the provision given by the amendment. I can't understand that their formulation is given in Article 5 better, but ours who says that instead of words – no matter how information is obtained. When such a thing is said, it is possible for a journalist, or one who obtains information to serve an illicit, immoral, immoral way of getting information. Let's just say, he can resort to secret recording of the conversation, he can do listening, he can do stealing documents. I hope the minister will accept this amendment, because I say it is precisely our provision, unequivocally saying that only the information provided under the law can be used, while in the formulation of the proposal it is not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6929	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6930	Mr. Chairman, we have now reached a contradiction. A recent amendment asked for a term of self-censorship to be introduced to prevent it, and now this amendment actually wants the same parliamentary group in some way to introduce censorship. What does a journalist mean to collect information according to the law? You know, what a journalist isn't even a judge for in the previous proceedings, he's not a prosecutor, and he's not a U.K.A.P., he's a journalist. Of course, a journalist publishes information that is really important to this society, and what he is obliged to do is call the other side, let's say, if it's a malversion, for example, about the vineyards, then he has to call the one who got the vineyard subsidy, ask him if you really got that subsidy. So this kind of thing is impossible to adopt, because then we'd put journalists in to be investigative judges, and it's really not normal. The journalist is free, he can write, what's in line with the code and the journalistic ethics, it's to call the other side, to deny it or confirm it, but this kind of thing is pointless to accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6931	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6932	I use the time of the parliamentary group, with the desire to support my fellow Members, Marko Đurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Branke Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandr Senić, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic, and to draw attention to the need to reconsider this amendment once more, because by obtaining information in accordance with the law of relations and serious objections that we have in the Commission's report on the state of the media, that information from the prosecution, police, and in the form of authentic, come to the media confidently, whether it is an investigation or a proposal for investigation. The European Commission has made it very clear that this is inadmissible, so that your refusal, that this amendment is accepted by reason that it is more precise in the bill, is contrary to the comments we have from the people we call upon when we talk about what is the support of this law. All the desire to present amendments and provisions differently than they are is completely legitimate when most or legislators do so, but in this case you can see how much a lie is, much faster than in the cases of the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Labour, the Law on bankruptcy. Here you can see in the next days after the adoption of the law when in the media, no matter what the information carrier was, information appears of the type and species to which the European Commission has had serious objections. And if it wasn't, I don't think we have a dispute here in society, we in Serbia, that it's unacceptable to be wrongly told by an information provider, and I can't say a lot about a journalist, because the information is gold and journalistic work is such that a journalist doesn't have to ask where the source is from, but that this is a clear message to those who break the law or intend to break the law in giving information to the media. At least verbally, we'll hear that we'll do something on the notes in the report concerning inadmissible articles, introductors, columnists, commentators, and it concerns information that should never be in the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6933	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6934	Since I've only got two minutes to talk about every amendment, so I don't spend as much time last time answering the first question, I'd wait to see if there's any more dilemmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6935	Thank you. You after the amendment? Since you've been discussing it, I have to give my word to people who haven't discussed it. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6936	I'm following the debate. I said something in principle about this. We can allow everything, but it's not good for some ignorance to sneak up on us during these discussions, and then to claim that we have support from international institutions. We'll see about that when the Head opens up to talk about freedom of the media. What's important here and what I'm trying to say is there's a 1971 Munich Convention and it's very clearly defining these problems. It is the task of journalists and authorities to provide freedom of information. Second, to fight for the truth. Therefore, that information must be true and third, it must not be harmed in any way by the dignity of the citizens. We can't spread one freedom to endanger another freedom. So, the basic problem in the world today, and with us it's got a vulgar situation, is that the press, whether it's "Maradox", "Springer", etc., we already know, Berlusconi, whoever wants it, has the right to enter wherever you want, into the kitchen, into bed, in any meeting with a friend, etc., to invent any story because it's supposed to be freedom. Freedom is everything that does not endanger the freedom of others and cannot tolerate the endless freedom of journalists that he, however, does not matter in which way some information comes. That's why this question is crucial to freedom and responsibility. There's no freedom without responsibility, because what's called press abuse is happening. It's not since yesterday, they discussed it with Jefferson when he spoke against censorship, he says, "Yes, we're against it to be before, but we're against it to be later, that whoever said a word, published some information for her, is responsible for her being true and has not violated anyone's human rights and dignity. That's how freedom is provided. So some things are common knowledge and we should respect them. There's been a lot of noise here. I didn't always want to intervene, let's just say that the virtue of the law is to be as flexible as it is here. So it doesn't matter where, how, it has to be precise. What characterizes one legal norm is its universality. What's true of the beggar is also true of the emperor. It's a norm, and it's gotta be true, and we're not gonna leave it, so we can do this. Then we boast that there are, or lessons we've heard, that there's a lex specialis that can derrogate these universal laws. Yes, but only in special situations, but otherwise all dictatorships are served by special laws to annul the general rights that are given. Please, in some things that are generally known in theory and in the practice of democracy, that we don't just go through it because tomorrow, when we implement it, we're going to have this problem. I didn't want to get involved in auto-censorship. It doesn't have to stand inside it has to be understood that when there's an autocensorship, it's one phenomenon like when you say there's a storm, etc., you have to know the causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6937	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6938	I have to admit, I respect an esteemed professor as perhaps the greatest living philosopher right now, and I can agree with really most of these things he said when I comment on this amendment. You know what? What you have stated now must be viewed by a journalistic code or ethics. What does it mean to be a journalist, to collect information according to the law? What law? You know, the prosecutor collects information according to the CAP, for example, or the police are doing the same in accordance with the criminal code. What law here could be appropriate for a journalist to collect information accordingly? If we had just said this, as much as I can agree with the distinguished professor, we would have been accused here of the worst censorship possible, the worst possible censorship would have charged us here. I don't know if respected colleagues read foreign press? So you see what's being published there, say the cover of "Daily Mirror" or "Sana," or any of these renowned world magazines, you'd be horrified. We're little kids compared to what's going on in some foreign press, and otherwise it's a tabloid so-called. journalism. It developed precisely in that period when the previous one was ruled by a set. There's something else I have to say, yesterday, let's say a weekbook came out, what kind of nasty things they write, say for the prime minister, that that butter dog can't wipe out, but it's printed here and nobody's saying anything about it. If we're already talking about some censorship, I'm going to remind the citizens in 2009 to stay in power, so the government doesn't collapse, the information law that Dinkic conditioned was passed. You've all voted for it, it's the worst censorship law. Because he was convicted by both the OSCE and the citizens' protector and all the news associations, unlike the law that you have passed and brought darkness and censorship. We still pass laws today that everyone supports and that is a key difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6939	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word, so Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6940	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry if I have just caused a comment in the sense that I am against having MPs have the right to submit the amendment they wish for. Of course not, and I welcome the promoters of the previous and this amendment, because I think they've opened the right topics, and the goal of my action today is to draw attention to the situation in the journalistic profession that I expect this law to finally resolve. We tried to define here and what self-censorship is and what information is and what are the facts in journalism. Autocensorship, I can agree with one part, is cowardice, as Mrs. Djeric says, and a moral category. In our society it is a social category, 70% of the media you enter and try to get a job will tell you – here, you have space, find yourself a sponsor, secure yourself a salary. There's a lot of self-censorship, there's a kind of journalism going on the way it's done, I'm talking about it, and that's what needs to be done. I know a reporter who has a gig at the market. It's not money it's money, it's goods, so it's man's way of doing it. It is a shameful position in which Serbian journalism is located, and therefore this law is so important. Let's remember the late professor. The puppet who founded our modern journalism. The first sentence he spoke to students is – a marketing journalist is a trader, not a journalist. His second sentence – facts are sacred, and comments are arbitrary. If we read the facts and if the facts are important, the journalist has the right as any authentic being, as the author to have his comments, but if this hits, then there's no problem and where the source came from, and how the source came from. If the barata excludes facts, and based on the fact it makes comments, it's already his creativity. When I turned my attention that you could have a lot more knowledge of this than I have personally, precisely because gentlemen of marketing and media space are sitting in your ranks, and I don't know that in the ranks of the party to which I belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6941	The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6942	I have to tell you that this Article 5 was the subject of discussion during the adoption of the draft of this law, even I had certain dilemmas myself, but the moment I got the argument, first of all, from the people of the press associations about the fact that evicting this member would actually completely cut off the hidings of investigative journalism and would completely disabling investigative journalism and that it would represent a form of actually hidden censorship. We no longer had a dilemma whether to leave it or not, and I will also draw attention to the fact that Article 9 provides for what are the obligations of editors and journalists, when they are obliged to pay attention and appropriate circumstances before publishing information that contains data of certain occurrences and events or personalities verify its origin, truthfulness and completeness. So this is concrete, this attitude 5, it allows journalists to deal with investigative journalism, and Article 9 simply invites everyone to professionally do their job. I hope no one here is against limiting the opportunities of investigative journalism in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6943	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6944	Our amendment, in our opinion, is in accordance with Article 9 and should allow journalists to work freely, but to work in accordance with the law. There was talk here about practice in the world. Perhaps the world's largest media mogul, Rupert Murdoch, was the owner of one of the most investigative newspapers in the UK, "News of the World" and in 2011 a network of bribery, illegal listening to public figures and politicians was discovered in order to obtain information, obtain circulation and profit. Do we want to create a society in which someone is only economically powerful to pay someone off, to listen illegally, to come up with some information, to publish them in the media, to earn profit or political or other influence? It is precisely our formulation that we propose by this amendment, more clearly, and not less clearly, as you stated in the rejection of this amendment, that this formulation is more precise, which is in the bill. Ours is more accurate. So information must be supplied in accordance with the law, every law of the Republic of Serbia. Unlawful information cannot be used because it is then questioned by its truthfulness and, according to Article 9, credibility, origin. It cannot be properly established if it is illegally obtained and media freedom cannot be achieved. Please reconsider and accept this amendment. I believe this will help develop research journalism in Serbia. Please, Mr. Chairman, this is the time of the head of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6945	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize, MP Vladimir Djukanovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6946	Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. Mr. Chairman, I do not allow, given that I have been in journalism for many years, to be insulted by fellow journalists. The amendment here refers to fellow journalists, and here someone is talking about the owner of some media who was listening somewhere. I don't allow fellow journalists to be offended that they may be spies or agents. I don't think I'm gonna let that happen. Why? Because they're part of this assembly and they're reporting from here. If someone's already suggesting that a journalist is going to put listening devices on or listening somewhere, it's really ugly. I would ask you to respond and protect fellow journalists who are also part of this Parliament and who report from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6947	If I were to apply your method, Mr. Djukanovic, then I'd have to protect a lot of people, not just journalists. So, it's not like journalists are exceptions from other people. There's a lot of things out here that people insult, you know, but I can't stop it. You know very well that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to make a point about it. So, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you can plead if you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanovic, and then Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a contribution to the discussion of counterpart Djurisic and to the invitation, for example, from Great Britain or international press and media. It is true that in many, first of all, British media have tabloids that are quite dramatic in their lack of culture and ethics, but it is also true that there are media that are an example of journalistic ethics and are usually a source of serious information, which is not always the case with us, since almost all media have become tabloid and hotly often it happens that irresponsible information is being placed as correct in relation to state institutions, police and other security institutions in the country. In Great Britain, if we mention it, it was initiated famously, precisely what Mr. Djurisic was talking about, an investigation, a Levison investigation, or a Levison report, where a serious investigation was done due to the listening, in which not only media owners participated, but also some journalists and they were the subject of the investigation. So we don't want to insult the press. I, about journalists, who do their job fairly and responsibly, have the best opinion possible. We just want to say that the situation, when it comes to the media, has become so serious that international organisations, such as the Council of Europe, are increasingly talking about media responsibility, not just about its freedom, which cannot be questioned. My question for the minister, in fact, since I would like to first not support the amendment that will limit investigative journalism – what are the arguments and what is the evidence if the journalist applies the law, that he will not be able to obtain certain information, that is, does this mean that there are situations where a journalist can break the law to get certain information? It's just that I'm interested, because maybe it's possible, so please tell us, what are the arguments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6949	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. I apologize, Mr. Shormaz, once again for making a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6950	It's not a problem, especially when it comes to one of my colleagues. Gentleman, we can keep our mouths shut. I thought maybe the minister would answer this, but okay. In principle, I think he wrote quite precisely and the minister made it quite clear, especially when we connect to Article 9, why this amendment is, I'm not going to say it's not good, it's not acceptable, it's too high. It's unnecessary because it's clearly written. What is important also for this law to say and related to all that we heard in the debate and about this amendment is two things. First of all, for the first time, I repeat on purpose, the EU tells us, and this law is going to make sure that the ownership structure is accurate and clear. Now, as far as this argument is concerned, who it is and whether the journalists were involved in some kind of spy affair or not, but it's always the ownership structure that matters, it's important that we know who's behind which media and how it works. Then we can also know the motives, which so far has not been the case in Serbia. It has not been the case so far in Serbia. Calling on whether some media are serious, tabloid and so on, that we've all been turned into tabloids, you know, they said the day starts with "Politics", but in 2008 someone replaced the serious policy editorship, so we didn't say that here, which was also critical even according to the ruling structure and brought in unserious leadership, in my opinion, "Politics", which ruined "Politics" as a newspaper, because it served only one cabinet in Obilić's crown. Now we're talking about whether this is how the press is gonna be able to do it or whether it's gonna apply the law or not. We must always look in our own backyard, we must see what we have done. The EU tells us nicely, and someone says it doesn't matter what the EU thinks. If the European Commission agrees with this, and it writes well that it is in line with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and the Community and their Member States. Look, it's all listed here, the whole side of the harmony, so then we have a complete harmony. We heard earlier in the debate on this amendment, the 1971 declaration is mentioned. See, full compliance with the 2006 Directive, the European Parliament and the Council of 12 December 2006 and the internal market conditions. So 100% harmony. Partial compliance, although it is also full compliance, although it says it is partial, because compliance is not achieved only in respect of provisions which are of such nature that only a Member State can implement them. So the only place we've partially aligned is where we can't fully coordinate until we become part of that space. A professional analysis of the bill, including this member, was carried out by Sandra Bašić Hrvatin, an expert in the European Commission. All objections, advantages and suggestions given in writing and in joint meetings by the European expert have been incorporated into the text of the draft law. Someone says he doesn't care what he thinks. It is important to me, because I want Serbia to be the most part of the EU in the next four, five years. I don't have a dilemma about what needs to be done and how to set up to be there. I see that some of them still have dilemmas about different cases that happen in media space today. By adopting these three laws, we end up doing a lot of work. Of course it follows, and here I agree with the MPs of the opposition who said, "accept." After that, it's important to follow the application, but we've given ourselves an assignment. Now it's up to us to apply it. That's why I don't think this amendment is vague, but it's perfectly accurate written in law and it doesn't change anything. Look, we've been discussing this amendment for over half an hour, and maybe there are some that are essentially more important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6951	The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6952	In 30 seconds as long as I have to comment on this amendment, it's too little time to give all those arguments that people, who deal with investigative journalism, wanted to put into this point of the law. I have another question. This is a point of law that's not new. She's from a law that was passed 11 years ago and I don't see why that point was then something that supports investigative journalism, and at this point it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6953	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee responsible did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6954	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, so I am someone who is reluctant to submit amendments to this text, to delete a certain member. As a hero from the Jeopardy Bridge, several versions of the amendment I tried to make and each I crossed and understood, looking at Article 5 and Article 9 of this Law, that this article really doesn't make sense to stand by the law. Why am I telling you this? A member of the law refers to the position of public and political holders, which we are all here. Thus, the elected and appointed public and political function holder is obliged to suffer critical opinions relating to the results of his work, etc., regardless of whether he feels personally injured by carrying out that opinion. So you have a member of the 5th and a member of the 9th who does this well, and this "is obliged to suffer", please, how much we owe, as much as I am obliged to endure, you cannot determine by law. It was determined by biology, psychology, and all my personal characteristics. I suffer at the threshold of my endurance. So it's something that makes this member so arbitrary, so much preparation spins in the public, even the media public, some special triggers that you, first of all, as an artist, as a creator, as a very sensitive person will recognize both envy and vanity and inferiority, and then we'll have a problem with something that will reshape some moments in public opinion. I'll tell you one situation. I'm someone who's aware of his public political functions and lives up to it and I'm ready for a public critical opinion. I've never challenged him. I've been defending my views in this house for ten years. We recently had one situation, all 250 people, by name and last name, that in one difficult situation for Serbia, when the flood occurred, we separated from our incomes by 45,000 dinars. We've been dragged the scariest way through media mud. It went to assess how we were reluctant to do it, as well as other similar flat-rate qualifications. So we couldn't defend anything. The comments of citizens who were placed in these texts, over 2,000, were the scariest, and none of them were in line with what people here are doing with all their heart and soul and complicity. First of all, there are people coming from these cities. It's just one example. That's why I thought this member should have been deleted. If you won't listen to my amendment and accept it, I think colleagues after me, from two opposition parliamentary groups, may have given a better solution. I wasn't so wise, but at least support it, because it's inadmissible for this member to stand up like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6955	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the committee responsible did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6956	Article 8 has the rubrum – the position of public and political holders. It reads in the proposed text: “The chosen, appointed, or appointed institution of public and political function is obliged to suffer critical opinions relating to the results of his work, that is, the policy he carries out, which is related to the performance of his function, regardless of whether he feels personally injured by the presentation of those opinions.” My amendment is to put an end to the word “function” and to delete from the article the part that reads: “Whether it feels personally hurt by making those opinions. ” I fully understand the argument of my colleague Zlata Djeric, who is referring to the word "suffer". What is an interpretation, or understanding, of this word “bear” is understood as an obligation for the holder of a public function, named or elected person. Everyone has the freedom to express their criticism, but I totally understand. This is one member who would have been impossible 40 or 30 years ago, but with a change in public light relations, they put on all people who volunteer to public office. No one's forcing us to be MPs, ministers, I don't know about ministers, I haven't been yet, so I can't say, but probably not ministers, not directors, not chiefs. No one's making you do public work. It's a voluntary matter. If it's a voluntary thing, then we have to have awareness that there are documents, that there is one genealogy of public relations in the media towards people in public functions. Even some judgments can be quoted from the European Court of Human Rights, where at the time, when you volunteer to enter public affairs, you voluntarily give up acts of privacy. If they lie to you, I will slander you, I call it. You must bear it. It's a process. I think this member might have a better formula. Anyway, I'd like to leave out the part about whether he or she feels personally hurt by putting those opinions out. That's none of your business. I don't think it can be entered into the law whether the field of freedom, criticism for the content of people's public affairs, whether that field of freedom should be defined so that it doesn't matter whether he or she feels personally injured. We have another problem. We have a problem that we don't criticise the work of people in public affairs at all or in a very, very small part. We have a problem that we are taught, as a society, to disqualify people, not disqualify what people do. I can illustrate that with a part of the debate here or yesterday when a completely unacceptable value system can link ethnic origin through Albanians and their right to have textbooks. When you don't understand it, because it's funny -- we don't mean it seriously, but pay for the electricity, so you'll get the books. I know there's no way that our attitude, our tendency to disqualify people, not to talk about what people do... I really don't think that's going to be reduced in a short time. For me to remain this member anyway and that all those who wish to take up public office are meant by this member, that they must be subject to criticism voluntarily. In that sense, the word “suffer,” there with colleague Zlata Djeric fully agrees, does not stand, but you cannot say – we are looking forward to public affairs to disqualify us, as well as to express the joy of what will happen. In that sense, I understand the word “suffer. ” When it comes to disqualification which is defined in another way, which is a violation of reputation, slander, defamation of honor, and everything else, there is. It is well defined in this law and for those who are prone to such texts, comments, columns, statements, whatever the target is. I'd like this to be a reason for all of us to start talking more about what people do, not who they are and who they are, what they're called, what they look like. More importantly, to understand that this applies to all public function holders. It doesn't matter, and it's inadmissible that if you belong to the opposition, you're rooting for this to happen to someone in power or you're out of power to cheer this up to someone from the opposition. This is proof that we do not understand at all how important it is to submit voluntarily to the public for all that is done, how important it is to communicate in this field of criticism and to listen to careful objections, remarks, suggestions from people who look at us, listen, if we are as publicly exposed as 250 MPs or if we are not, if we are in some part of the executive authority or in any part of the government that is less accessible to the public. I know it seems like nothing in particular changes whether we accept this amendment or not, but I've had the desire to use the definition of this Article 8 and as an invitation to maybe even the Ministry's patronage to open a debate. The Ministry can do this, the dialogue of people of various kinds, those on public affairs and various kinds of public who, by nature, criticise their work, whose content of criticism ends up in some media one way or another. I think we could all benefit from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6957	Time over two minutes, five minutes and 17 seconds will be taken from the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6958	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mr. Chairman, are injured by members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. First, the previous speaker, i.e. Mrs. Comic, spoke not only of the amendment but was completely wrong, whether she was knowingly or unconsciously interpreting the statement of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. So he did not say and not call for any ethnic discrimination but said that the government of the Republic of Serbia from the budget would provide money for textbooks to all members of the national minorities and not only mentioned Albanians, but if I am not mistaken both Hungarians and Russian and all others. He urged citizens, so not Albanians, but citizens living in Presevo, Bujanovac and other municipalities in that part of the Republic of Serbia to pay for electricity. Which is a perfectly normal thing, you'll admit it in every country. So this is a rude insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, because the Prime Minister did not discriminate against anyone but said that the state would do everything to allow members of national minorities to learn from textbooks in their native language, as is the obligation of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including those living in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji etc. and the Serbs and the Albanians and the others to pay for the electricity. This is not the first time today that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been exposed to a single link because he said yesterday that citizens should pay for electricity. Citizens should pay electricity as they should pay taxes and as they should carry out other civic duties, and the state is there to enable them to exercise their rights, both minority and civil and all others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6959	Thank you. You know as well as I can agree with that, but you know the Rules of Procedure, you can plead. No, I don't. Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Riza Halimi, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6960	It's dignity again. I don't know why this need to ignore what happened in reality. There may be a need to ask for an apology, but to disprove what happened can't. Because the problems with the textbooks aren't this year. For years, decades, and this government and the previous ministers have been warned, informed that most of the textbooks in Albanian are missing and that more than half of the textbooks in the first four classes, Albanian parents are paying. They have no possibility as other families in Serbia to have free textbooks. It can't be solved in a month. If we're seriously talking about a serious problem, we have to admit that in a month he can't do it. Look at the deadlines that the Law has on publishing textbooks despite the greatest will that was, the Prime Minister, it can't. It's a promise that can't come true by September 1st. So when we connect it to the current, I absolutely think it's a mistake and it's a very serious mistake that has to be publicly admitted. There's nothing further to argue about because, unfortunately, that was the formulation, so it's accepted...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6961	Mr. Halimi, please, I've deliberately let you spend the time you've planned for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you, and I'm asking you for some of the past time, so you don't move me to commit terror. So, you've replicated here beyond the subject, past the agenda, if I should have interrupted anyone, I should have interrupted you, but I'm begging you in that sense. I admit here publicly that I tolerated it for the simple reason that you don't think I have anything personal against you, but I'm asking you to really get back on the subject in the future. Yesterday was a debate about electricity, and everything, and today you're talking about laws of a completely different nature. Please keep it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6962	Chairman, Article 27, second position. You are required to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Because of what you've explained to the being, you know how much I respect and respect you, but now I might be a little softer than I intended. Now you've really broken the Rules of Procedure. He pointed out fellow Martinovic, a very clean violation of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly 107, from counterpart Gordana Komic, who said in her speech something that had nothing to do with the amendment, you did not interrupt it and talk about how someone conditioned the textbooks. You can look at the stenogram and you'll see that I'm telling you correctly, and you probably didn't hear that, as someone conditioned the Albanians by getting the textbook by paying for electricity, but it's literally what I'm saying, I'm telling you. Then, after that, for the second time in 107, Mr. Halimi gets, you have now explained why you gave him your word. That way the rest of us turn out to be discriminated against. Why did you give it to him? Because the Albanian is an MP? He's an MP of 250 and he works on the same Rules of Procedure as we do. We have a Slovak colleague here, and we have a colleague who spoke on the same subject of Russian nationality yesterday. You know, just because he's an Albanian doesn't mean he has to speak against the Rules of Procedure. Look where we went, and we have 200 more amendments to work. It's strictly necessary to run the Rules of Procedure and work on it. I'm not going to ask the assembly to plead, but I'm going to ask you to keep an eye on what they're doing and to do in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6963	Mr. Shormaz, I accept your criticism. I confessed to deliberately breaking the Rules of Procedure. And thank you for not asking us to plead. According to the Rules of Procedure, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6964	Mr. Chairman, you've made a small point and made a claim that is unclear to me. You said you weren't allegedly charged with terror, so you gave me your word. Now I hear an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6965	Mr. Halimi, what's the member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6966	Article 103. Now I hear that the chairman in this case hurt the Rules of Procedure when he said a vague formulation, that you gave me your word so that you wouldn't be accused of committing terror, whether you said to the Albanians or to someone, but that's your line. I don't know why I'm supposed to get a word in here on charges like that. Or what Mr. Shormaz says that Albanians are a protected species, so they should be tolerated? I understand it absolutely so and so it's said. Look at the stenogram, look at the notes. Why was I privileged here in the work of this house? If it's based on those analyses of such a conclusion, okay, I'd take it. But I don't think it stands. I was absolutely not privileged to do anything. I haven't even gotten a word in a lot of times when it was supposed to be replicas or injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, I want you to explain what this is about. What terror you allegedly committed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6967	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. I explained to you that you were doing a replica instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure. And that's where I made the mistake I confessed and regretted. I should have shut you down and never let you talk. I ask you not to exploit one's kindness and understanding and make it a drama. Let's be collegiate. There's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you to move on with your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6968	If there's any more damage to the Rules of Procedure, I'll take a break. That's the right of the chairman. Either we move on to work, or we hurt the Rules of Procedure. That's what I came here to recommend to the chairman. To Article 8 of the amendment... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6969	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6970	A five-minute break because a session can't be conducted with injuries to the Rules of Procedure and abuses of the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6971	How can you know I'm going to abuse the Rules of Procedure? Will you give me your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6972	You want me to listen to Ambassador Veselinovic throw out of the bench? A five-minute break, otherwise there's no yelling in the break. Read the Rules of Procedure when the Chairman can set a break and what happens first in the O.R. [[After a break.]] The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers and the Guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8, and it is necessary here to say that we are not satisfied with the explanation for the refusal of our amendment. In order to make it perfectly clear what this is all about, I will once again read the contents of Article 8 and the amendment proposal. Article 8 contains only one position in the draft law. This view reads: “The chosen, appointed, or appointed public and political function holder is obliged to suffer critical opinions relating to the results of his work, that is, the policy he carries out, and is related to the performance of his function, regardless of whether he feels personally injured by carrying out those opinions. “ We have no dilemma that this is a good formulation. Of course the public function holder must suffer criticism. I do not think there should be any dilemma at all, but our proposal was to add another position to Article 8 and to add this view: "The chosen, appointed, or appointed public and political function holder is limited to the right to protect the privacy of the person concerned by the information, if the information contained in the information is relevant to the public, given its function. “ In an explanation of rejection, the amendment is said to be rejected for the reason that the right to privacy is guaranteed by the Constitution to every citizen. But, gentlemen, the right to privacy isn't absolute. The right to privacy is limited, according to our understanding, the right of the public to know the information concerning the function of the person. We felt it would be reasonable to accept this amendment to Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6975	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6976	This amendment was proposed by MPs from several parliamentary groups, in the same text. This is because practically this amendment proposed NUNS to be included in the procedure and then several of us responded, and therefore it is unusual that there are different arguments on the same text of the amendment proposed by Mr Zivkovic and Mr Pavicevic and an explanation for the other promoters, although the text of the amendment is practically the same. I call on the minister, given that in the debate with the previous member, Article 5, he called for the position of the press associations in order not to accept our amendment, that he now respects this amendment and accepts it, because it originally comes as a proposal from the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia. This was the time of the head of the parliamentary group, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6977	You were right for two minutes. You're a signer, right? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: One of. You're a signer. You didn't waste anything, just time. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: OK, that's fine.) So, on behalf of your group, you spoke for all the signatories. Gordana Komic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6978	I think the amendments signed by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic are on the agenda. That's what I want to get back to you about. So, I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6979	They're together, and you're separated. It's a little complicated. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6980	No, I'm quite special.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6981	All right, together, separately, especially, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6982	Thank you. So, the text proposed, with all the respect that NUNS suggested, here's why it's a good debate, does not refer to the same thing as Article 8 in the basic text of the law, as I read it. One is protection of privacy, and the other is an obligation to suffer criticism. The suffering of criticism doesn't have to get in the way of privacy. How difficult we are to experience it, we have an example as many as you want, a siat, including, say, reporting from this session, because the application of this law would mean that a journalist knows that a public function holder is obliged to suffer criticism. And what was heard, regardless of whether it relates to what one national ambassador was saying about another MP, or MP to the minister, or MP to the Prime Minister, is that if the content of what was said is something that was said, not disqualification of a person, even then, unfortunately, it must be publicly available. When it comes to privacy, then I would love it if this could be the second position of the same member, because, when it comes to protection of privacy, it's not just about having to be available to the media who want information from you, but because you're in a public position, just one example to say, you're obliged to have your property, your family connections, your interest relationships available to the public. That's not the case with other professions. But I repeat, this is a voluntary matter. If before you enter the public office you know that you are obliged to give up a part of privacy, which even goes into what many of us don't think, say, photographing someone at a public office in place and with people who take photos of themselves, you can hardly say – why did he take pictures of me in hunting, in a restaurant or photograph me on the beach? You need to know in advance that people who listen and watch what people do in public functions are interested in that sort of thing. In that sense it may be a protection of privacy, but in my view it is different than what the first attitude defines as the word "suffering", which means that we voluntarily give up acts of freedom, which may not be in private life if we were not in public functions, that what we are saying and what we are doing is free and available for every kind of criticism and remarks. It's one process that's been going on for twenty years in developed democracies, and it's always going to work and it's always going to get fixed, and there's always a case that's precedentd, which shows up, so it says, yeah, then we're going to put this part of people's behavior in public affairs into law. Since the United Kingdom, in Britain, has been mentioned after a major scandal in the House of Commons with the MPs of the Lower House, there is a nearly legalized term "daily test" that refers to tabloids accompanying British Parliament's MPs. All that goes through such a tabloid is subject to both ethical committees and debates in “House of Commons”, with several situations different. This is where the value system of society differs. It's much less disqualification of ad personam. It's a lot less disqualification based on personality. There's a lot less of it - cancel it and what's called in our sport by dialogue when they're talking to the judge - don't talk to him, stab him. There's a lot less of it, and a lot more comment on what someone in public has done. In order for us to get to this responsibility together, to talk more about what we've done than who we are, what we are, and whether or not we can disqualify ourselves by any personal property, I think we need both attitudes, and maybe even possible, although it's not, for the board, but, well, at least to remain publicly recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6983	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, the applicant, for two minutes. You're that group together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6984	If you say so, fine. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable President, the Honorable Guests and Ministers, I would just like to further explain. I think it is necessary to enter this Article, paragraph 2, and if that position 2 were to be attached to Article 8, we would only contribute to the improvement of the content of this bill. We have already concluded that this proposal is not in dissension with the Serbian Constitution. There's no dilemma. The second thing, the content of our amendment that we are proposing to enter heading 2 is the standard based on Article 8, Article 10. European Conventions on Human Rights, European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, gentlemen, if we here often or from time to time, we use the argument that we have received the support of some European international organisations for which we are working, then I think that these standards should be fully adhered to. I think Article 8, Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights is part of those standards that I need here to adapt to. And at the very end, in point 3, as one addition to this, be careful, to put up with criticism, to be some kind of obligation of public function bearer, I think it should also concern those data contained in some privacy information, but only when that information is relevant to the public, given its function. I'm not talking about whether someone is beautiful, whether they got married, divorced, but only if it's important to the public, given that function that a person performs. I do not believe it will harm in any way if this Article 2 joins the position of Article 1 of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6985	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6986	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I just want to point out a few sentences to this article and to this amendment. Of course, each public office holder is obliged to suffer critical media views on his own account, of course, and is headed into the world of public life and politics. However, it is very important that what is the privacy of each person is also respected and that it is not mixed with one another, which is very often happening in local media and to this day, especially in those local media that are far from some great world and large public, and then people who are in public office, instead of being criticised, are publicly criticised for what has been done or not done, falsely portraying their environment, so that we have something that is called negative selection of people. All men who are of profession, science and reputation, then if they're oiled in local media once, twice, three times, they run from function. So we have a situation that the best, best-quality people very rarely are ready to accept public functions in their local environment. I therefore appeal to both the Ministry and the judicial authorities and to all public officials not to allow the mixing of these two matters. So, that the public function bearer should suffer criticism, but criticisms that are true, but at the same time that his privacy through the Constitution is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6987	Thank you. Minister Tasovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6988	Thank you. It seems to me that at this point, maybe the people who are watching us aren't fully clear what we're talking about. What was the proposaler's idea is that the public function holders who volunteered to come here must be aware that they are exposed to criticism. At this point, we can group the amendments into three categories. One that suggests that this member should be completely deleted. Another, which suggests adding another attitude, which I say further strengthens this story in some way even by jeopardizing privacy. And the third thing, the third amendment is to put an end to it, which in some ways makes this story a little bit easier. So it seems to me that with the explanation that we've given for why we don't accept this amendment, we've found exactly the right measure. So anyone who took public office is obliged to hear criticism, to endure it, because in the end, it was our voluntary decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6989	The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović. The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6990	Well, here's what we see from the minister's presentation that there's a good will to accept things, but we need to be aware of what time we live in and what the conditions in which we live are. We are witnessing that a lot of things have been written, said, about certain public figures. That's why I think, although I like my fellow counterpart Pavicevic's proposal, I don't think we should accept this amendment right now, and it stays for some better times when we are better, or much better than we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6991	Minister, you've wasted your time. Two minutes after the amendment. I have to be the same to everyone. I'm sorry. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6992	I have submitted an amendment to Article 10, which is accepted and, if accepted, would be read – The institutions of public media services at the republican, regional, regional and local level and other media that act in accordance with the principles of public media services are particularly obliged to report on the phenomena, events and personalities in a timely and impartial manner, to enable the expression of all views, to underline, all the views and opinions that are represented in the community, to encourage debate in the spirit of tolerance on all issues of interest in the public, to produce diverse software content and to seek the highest level of quality of services. This is what I have proposed to change in the membership itself, and of course I am asking this member to be in line with the media strategy by 2016 adopted by the government on 28 September 2011. Of course, the government doesn't have to accept this amendment. I'm sorry she didn't accept it. Of course, I expect the government to say that these are things that otherwise exist, otherwise all services are handled. I would say that unfortunately life is denying us and that things really don't go in the direction of covering all relevant and political phenomena and attitudes, especially when they're different from the voice of the one who exercises power in our country at any level. We had an example recently in Smederev, I'm saying this as an example, which you're familiar with, with which media associations are. journalists' associations have already reacted negatively, where the mayor of Smedereva, who was first-degreed indictee, was convicted of a crime. Simply, the woman did not allow the tape from the City Assembly to be broadcast, showing what the opposition downhills were saying. A provision like this, it's not imperative, but it would certainly contribute to us saying it's in the law, so that later as social work we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6993	Thank you. National MP Milorad Stosic and MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6994	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 10 reads – public media services institutions and other media that act in accordance with the principles of public media services are particularly obliged to report in events, events and personalities in a timely and impartial manner and to enable the expression of ideas and opinions that are represented in the community to encourage discussion in a spirit of tolerance on all issues of interest to the public, to produce diverse software content and to seek the highest level of service quality. That's what the government suggested. My amendment reads that behind the words "public media services" are added "at the republican, regional, regional and local level". Why did I write this, we all know that in the middle of next year, all the local media that are under the authority or which are financed by local self-government will be privatised because the state is coming out of the local media and then we will get, if we do not adopt the amendment that I have submitted and, as the chairman, Mr Stosic, we will get equal opportunities for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to use the services of the public media service in the same way, and that they do not all have the same rights in achieving public interest. Currently from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and later from tax and under this law will remain so, is funded by RTS 1 and 2 and 3 and the Radio Belgrade programme, as the Republic Public Service covering the territory of the entire Republic, and we have the financing of TV 1 and 2 programmes and three radio programmes that are also funded in the same way as RTS citizens, i.e. money from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we do not adopt this amendment half of the territory, more than half, 65% of the Republic of Serbia south of Sava and Danube and half of our citizens, i.e. the compatriots will not have the same right and opportunities to use public media services as our fellow citizens, compatriots in Vojvodina and as they have thanks to this law and RTTV and citizens living our countrymen in Belgrade, because they have Studio B under the law of the capital. This will allow citizens of the south, south of Sava and Danube to pay a TV subscription, whether it goes over the budget in the next period until the law on taxis enters into force, when we start paying it as a tax, but will not have the same right to use services as Serbian citizens living in Belgrade and Vojvodina. And from that I ask you to support this amendment in the voting day, so that we may, I am in favour of having the same obligations, wherever we are living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, allow wherever anyone lives in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to have the same rights. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6995	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Culture, the information was not accepted by the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6996	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted to Article 13 of this Act an amendment in terms of overall and, in my view, more comprehensive security in the exercise of the right of national minorities to inform in their own language, with the fact that, in the existing formulation, it figures briefly, publishes information in the languages of national minorities, and the proposed amendment is – it publishes software content and information that meets the needs of national minorities for information in its own language. So, in the whole of the formulations of this provision remains the same, only to say briefly in the direction of informing in the languages of national minorities, it is extended here not only to directly informing, but also to publishing software content and information, which meet the needs of national minorities in the field of information. I think this amendment should have been accepted. It does not change the essence of the legal provision but it complements it to make it clearer and binding. It was not accepted, and I think it was better to allow a more comprehensive and comprehensive formulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6997	Thank you, two minutes and four seconds. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Milorad Stosic, by amendment? (Milorad Stosic, from the post: I by Business. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6998	Please, you have broken the Rules of Procedure, disallowing me to speak by amendment number 10, for which I have reported, submitted an amendment. Please consider giving me your word in some other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u6999	I'll give you my word anyway. Just so you know, the president, the chairman, is not handling the technique. And in the last term and in the earlier councils, when more than five MPs come forward, we don't have it on screen. There's been a mistake, not my fault. I'll give you my word anyway. Do you want to vote? I can't go back, because the procedure doesn't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7000	I don't want to, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7001	I thank you for your understanding. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture, the information was not accepted by the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7002	The amendment we have submitted concerns the public interest in public information, and among other things, we have proposed to add in attitude 7 after the word "and human health" to "needing intercultural, interethnic communications, fostering the spirit of tolerance and the value of a multicultural society and developing pluralism of ideas and opinions". Among other provisions proposed by the amendment was the draft version of this law. It is now not available in this proposal, so we believe that there is a special quantum of information of importance for the life and work of citizens at the level of AP and local self-government unit, whose publication is of public interest in the field of public information. Among defined public interests is information in the languages of national minorities, which is certainly commendable, which the legislator recognized as value. However, some studies record a high ethical distance in Vojvodina, as well as self-getoisation of minority communities, media closed in their midst, their language, contribute to the creation of an ethical distance. In such defined public interests, Article 15. The bill could be read that the state of Serbia is defined for the ghettoisation of minority communities, i.e. to encourage national communities in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, where the most members of national communities live, not with each other, but alongside each other. The modern European values that we so call upon are based on co-existence, but precisely on the intertwinations of culture and language, so-called "The New York Times". Interculturality. The Serbian state must recognise public interest in ethical communication, especially when it comes to information and not only because of good practice in the EU, but also because it is the ghettoisation of national communities, which can be the cause of various political and social turbulence, because we know what has happened in the last 1990s in Bosnia. A provision in interethnic communication in multiculturalism can enable the survival and development of media that have content in several languages, which are very important for Vojvodina. They can be threatened by media reform if they are not recognised as a special value. If our amendment is not accepted, the law, in our opinion, will continue to achieve the ghettoisation of minority communities, which I think is dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7003	Thank you. Yours was on Article 15, right? (Olena Papuga, from place: yes.) ) The MPs Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7004	Thank you. Article 15 is on the verge of public interest and defines in its views what public interest is in the field of public information. My proposal and colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, is to add another point, which is to support the production of media content in order to raise citizens' interest in public affairs, the public work of authorities, the availability of funds in public property, the quality of services that citizens receive from the public sector and the purpose of the costs incurred on the burden of current or future taxpayers. So, I know that the first comment is on why it is already included in point 7 or why the public authorities themselves provide information that he was the first, but this is not about someone who is in public office giving information. This is about the fact that in law and then in programming proposals, you have as little obligation as any media has to inform citizens about how the system works. Believe me, it's a first-class educational program. So, this is not about the position of anyone who is the government, the opposition, appointed, appointed, you can, of course, not meddle in the production of media content to use people who know how to do it, but this is about continuous education of people about what it is that tax money is all funded, why it is funded, which are the ways of money, which are the ways of procedure, in which way it is a citizen in the obligation and the right to the system or service of any kind. So, I've so much as called it, which couldn't, of course, be in the amendment, the school program for a better system, because when you have information about what it is that you have the rights under the Constitution and the law to expect as a user of the system, then you have both the way and the procedure, and the procedure is culture in organized societies, that you ask the media to do so. It's quite understandable that it will be in some other media content, I don't dispute it, but I think we're all together at the moment when it's important, so let's make it koloquial, so there's no confusion, that by law we all have a commitment that later in the competitions there will be production of "this school content" for the system, how the system works. Will they be interested? I believe he will. If you don't, then he'll come forward in another period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7005	Milorad Cvetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7006	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, of course we are against the acceptance of this amendment by Ms Olena Papuga. I have to respond to the observation that a certain social group, i.e. A social minority, closing in the ghetto.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7007	Please speak in the microphone, so I can hear it too. I'm sorry. Please report for the second amendment. You made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7008	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7009	You've made a mistake, you're talking about some other amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7010	No, I'm talking about the amendment that Mrs. Olena Papuga just brought out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7011	Just in the microphone, I have to admit I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7012	I'm talking about Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7013	Okay, I'll pay attention then a little more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7014	The explanation of the amendment by Ms Olena Papuga is that the state of Serbia is one particular social group, i.e. The national minority, if we hear correctly, ranks in the ghetto.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7015	It's not that amendment. Here's a letter from your MP group saying that. Please, so as not to cause any trouble, I'll give you the amendment, you made a mistake. I believe you, and I skip the amendments, as many as there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7016	It's not a problem for me. I've come to the conclusion of that amendment, and I probably haven't been in the system for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7017	They can't keep making mistakes about the chairman, shutting you out of the system, not giving you this-that, that's amazing. It's not on the planet anymore. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7018	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, our amendment refers to the public interest in public information and refers to the addition of one point, which would read - the fight against corruption as a priority of public information. counterpart Aida Corovic and I wanted to place the fight against corruption as a priority of public interest for all our citizens, and I think that this topic would become one of the most important things that will be supported from public sources, which is still not the situation. We believe that support should also be given to media productions dealing with research journalism and promoting the fight against corruption, which is a necessary element in the fight against corruption, as defined in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. We believe that the media are the key to this topic, because in their reports they sort of, I will not say force, but in some ways they encourage and force the state authorities to examine all cases of corruption fully, but the role of the media is to inform citizens about what is all forms of corrupt behavior. We believe that consciousness must exist with journalists, but also with media owners who should give journalists freedom of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7019	The word is Maria Obradovic, a time from the group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7020	Thank you. I wanted to wait until we heard all three amendments to this Article 15, and to make one joint comment, I hope it will be constructive because this discussion has received the right tone, this is how it should look, to try to improve this bill as much as possible, to specify it as possible and to show that these amendments of different parliamentary groups only want to further specify certain options offered. These amendments have not been accepted in such detailed form, but I will now offer a different view of it. This bill provides for the project financing of the media. These topics that have been heard under these three amendments are topics that should be in projects for project financing of the media. So, all of these areas that are mentioned can be topics that will especially be carried by each project and the specific programme content offered, because the fight against corruption that should be shown as a priority of public interest can be a title for a decisive series of both information and educational emissions and emissions in which it communicates with viewers. Also, citizens' interest in public affairs, i.e. raising that interest, the purpose of the costs incurred on the burden of current and future taxpayers based on raising citizens' interest in public affairs and what is very important, the care of intercultural inter-ethnic communication, the care of the spirit of tolerance and the value of a multicultural society, are all topics which I now suggest to both media editors and journalists to deal with, indeed, because they can bring serious sums of money to their offices and their media and to contribute significantly to raising standards and educational and moral and moral in their communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7021	The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7022	Thank you, colleague Maria Obradovic. I just want to explain. I was talking about getting a national council. So I was saying that the law should include as much interculturality as possible, that we don't live in some environments next to each other, not each other. That's why I think the public interest in the media sphere is to encourage as much co-existence as possible, not ghettoisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7023	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go. There's a group of you for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7024	Enough. Public interest and general interest, which is defined here for the media, just a note, we have no procedure, nor have we defined it in case of a breach to initiate the procedure. There's a problem with the Archusa Convention. When the question is of public interest, general interest, protection and promotion of the environment, it cannot be initiated, so it would be good to run it as a topic for another move.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7025	Thank you. You've wasted group time. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group has no more time. The time remains for the president of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7026	Thank you. I highly respect the activity and commitment of my colleague, Papuga, in the work of this House, both professionally and privately. I think that ghettoization is too strong when we talk about this bill. The Vojvodina area in Serbia is indeed one symbol of respect for human rights, and I think it's too much of a word. We should be working on living together, not apart from each other, but you and your parliamentary group do prove that there is room for many national minorities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7027	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milorad Cvetanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7028	Dear Chairman, here I am again reporting under Amendment number 15 and to express my disagreement with the use of the too strong term "getoisation", because the term "getoisation" means we continue to close some social minority into the ghetto of the rest of society. I don't think this is about any ghettoisation. Finally, local self-government has the right to decide on how many public media will be able to meet within the framework of the local self-government project, based on the budget they will provide. At this point, the economic situation in which we are simply, in addition to our extremely good will, does not allow us to absolutely finance all kinds of public media in Serbia. I don't see why if it were allowed to do so to any national minority, would the other have no right to do so? I don't know where that would lead us, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7029	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7030	Thank you. Madam President, I will also use the time of representatives of the parliamentary group. We are in this amendment in Article 16(3), in addition to the existing solution to allow national councils of national minorities to set up institutions and companies to exercise public information rights, it is added in the context of this provision that the need to form a editorial for programmes in the languages of national minorities within the framework of public services at national and regional level. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment with an explanation that its acceptance would jeopardise the institutional independence of public media services. I disagree with this answer is if we still let the problem of information in minority language leave the autonomy of public service, because it is independent, I think it is absolutely unacceptable, because we know what practice it has been so far. For seven years, I have been asking questions and so far I have no answer - why is there not one minute on RTS in Albanian? For the problem of national minorities in Vojvodina, the solution has remained the solution so far that public services are likely to be at that level, in addition to other reasons, to be more fully informed, so that these information rights are achieved by members of national minorities. Now what do we do for the second part? Only RTS remains, no more regional public services or municipal services financed by local self-government. If there is no obligation of public service, in this case RTS, to have editorials in minority languages, then we risk continuing to keep up-to-date, in my opinion, very bad practice. I don't want to talk about other minorities' practices, but I do know what the situation is when it comes to informing in Albanian. It is okay to leave this possibility as a possibility for national councils to play the role, but the big question will be, knowing the financial capacity of national councils, and especially the National Council of the Albanian National Minority, which has been discriminated against for a year and a half because they have been reduced by at least 30% of the information funds. They can't keep a weekbook one, one leaf. And they broke it off, with that weekly issue, because they don't have financial resources. Then where can local radio or TV be financed with this condition? Knowing the situation that privatisation can take place in privatised media, knowing the practice and fate of a lot of solid companies that have failed after privatisation, I openly ask the question – if we do not commit a little more precisely through legal provisions to perform the public service and that activity when it comes to informing the language of minorities, then in my view, the whole of this problem is left in considerable uncertainty over the further period. That is why we have given this variant, that through the legal provisions the public service is obliged to carry out this activity more professionally and organisedly in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7031	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7032	Thank you, President. With this amendment, we have proposed that governance in the languages of national minorities be tripartite, i.e. one-third of the board of directors be representatives of national councils, one-third determine the employees of this institution in question, and one-third be representatives of journalists associations and civil society organisations dealing with the rights of national minorities and freedom of expression. Among other things, we have proposed this for reasons to prevent illicit influence on the media, whose publishers are the National Councils of National Minorities, i.e. the influence of the Republic on the media, which are from the area of AP KIM. The amendment lays down that they are established as institutions or foundations, and that the act establishing and statutes of the institution, i.e. the foundation, in particular the way in which the selection and appointment of the body of management of the institution or foundation and the responsible editor of such a medium, with the majority of the members of the board of directors being made independent members of the employee order. Media that are founders The National Councils of National Minorities are exempt from the privatisation process, and they will be the kind of services of media minority communities. The fact is, however, that there is no part in the bill that will allow for the independence of editorial policies of such media, but they can only be advertising tables of minority elites. So this law does not guarantee freedom of the media and expression in the languages of national minorities. This issue is important because in recent times we have had numerous violations of media freedoms in the languages of minority communities. Article 16’s final position The bill is, in fact, a cover-up that management committees seem independent of the influence of national councils. It's probably the result of a minority deal with the majority communities, I guess. I'm saying this from one of my own experiences, since I'm a member of the Russian National Council. I work in a media house in the language of a national community that is the founder of the National Council. I'm going to give you a concrete contribution to this, and that's happening now a few days ago. So, the elections for national councils aren't scheduled, because due to the amendments to the law, etc., the mandates of the national councils, among other things, and the national community to which I belong, are the same as on July 5th... So, the National Council has a mandate to do just some technical work. There's nowhere to be defined what the national council can do when it runs out of time to the new one's election. The director of the news and publishing institution and the professional theatre is running out of mandate around September 17th, but it's better now, the competitions have already been called, so that this National Council, which has no mandate, I don't think it's there, has just some technical mandate, has a better choice of director, and to set it up until the election of the new National Council. I don't know, that's why I'm talking about the impact of really national councils on editorial policy, and I think this law makes it even more complete. That's why we suggested in this amendment that the boards of directors be not so one-way, that you might really think about that "three, three, three", we call it "three, three, three"... So that the national councils have three members, that the editorials have three members and maybe some civil organisations to get some role in these national councils, so that this editorial policy is not fully controlled by national councils. I can tell you from experience that it's really like that. I just want to tell you something else, maybe you should really think about it, because the influence of national councils is very big, in some communities maybe smaller, in some communities, not, but I'm talking from the point of view of the Russian National Council, where that influence is really big. The national councils of the national minorities will receive a political monopoly on information in the languages of the national communities, which I find worrying. The proposal for a law on public information and media has excluded parts in which the media, established by the National Councils of National Minorities, would be guaranteed the autonomy of editorial policy. The pieces disappeared from the draft, because there was this tripartite arrangement of the boards of directors in that draft, but it's just been thrown out now. So I'm asking you to reconsider that. I'm glad national councils play a role in the media, but not exactly what this law we're talking about today gives them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7033	Members of the 17 amendments were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7034	Mr. Chairman, members of the Serbian government, I have proposed that Article 17 be changed and that it be in line with the adopted Media Strategy by 2016. "The Republic, an autonomous province, i.e. the local self-government unit, provides from the budget part of the funds for the achievement of public interest in the field of public information. The local self-government unit provides at least 2% of the budget for public interest in the field of public information. A 60% share of the funds is intended to finance regional public services and the rest of 40% of the project financing of commercial media. Public services do not have the right to compete for funding through projects that are being explored by the Republic, the Autonomous Province and local self-government units." This is our attempt to make a proposal as it should, in our opinion, make it look at local and regional level. That you have accepted our suggestions that these media are still preserved and preserved, as exists in other EU countries, and that we in some way protect these media from political will and parties in power in these municipalities or future regions or in the province. This defines in detail how much percent should be allocated and how much percent would go for projects, if someone didn't say we weren't against project funding. We believe that this would preserve the information of our citizens on local issues on regional issues. They would have kept what hasn't worked for a long time. They'd save, if you wanted, and those reporters to do their job, no danger of losing him. If, we see it will, these media will be privatized and these people will unfortunately end up on the street, knowing that we are a nation of great skill and expertise in giving projects. Unfortunately, in the past, I don't know how many years, 10 have shown that we can't use those resources and that people have been professionally engaged in writing and making projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7035	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7036	I have to tell you, we don't have a chance to prescribe local self-government how much they're going to single out for any area. That's the reason. The second thing is to legitimately challenge the state's decision to step out of the media's ownership structure. But I don't know how rational that is at this point, since it represents one European standard at this point. I wouldn't be afraid, at this point, of people losing their jobs. Project financing provides people with the possibility that through less production, not only to make better quality programs, but also to earn more money.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7037	Mr Mirjana Djokovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7038	I would like to give an example of good practice, which is the city of Cačak, which has defined from its budget 13 million media funding dinars this year. I have reliable information that cities in the environment haven't allocated so much funds. I suggest that this amendment be rejected because I know that the city's budget for this calendar year is about three billion dinars. That would mean we'd have to cut out about 60 million for the media. At this point, when the economic crisis is in effect, and even in the city of Cačka, it would be really unacceptable, to set aside 60 million to fund local media. The town of Cačak has one regional frequency, one local television as well as a series of production houses. We made an effort to allocate about six million for the direct transmissions of the session of the City Assembly, about four million for direct financing and project financing, and three million for financing of traffic security software. I can also support this by the fact that every media house, so the TV "The Galaxy", so TV "Telemark", and other production houses have very successful marketing services, so here I see exactly how they can find additional funding for their pogromic content and certainly for the financing and survival of their media at local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7039	Thank you, Mrs. Djokovic. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7040	Thank you. I will join with the comments of Minister Tasovac that it really does not need to be feared by media employees, editors of the editorials, or people who in any way are now financed from the state budget, that, after the adoption of this law, they will absolutely lose their jobs, that all regional and local media will be shut down, that there is no longer the possibility of hearing information from the moment this law is passed. It's absolutely wrong to confuse, deceive citizens, because anyone who is seriously involved in the media has enjoyed the moment when he can finance himself in a fair way with the commission, with the procedures prescribed, what he wants to place on the viewer and knows that money will be found for it. Because when you really offer a good product that interests viewers, the consumption of your media services has no reason to worry. I know many creative editors of journalists who were trapped in the city's state offices, so to speak, because they didn't have an understanding of the editors, nor was there enough money within what was foreseen by this state or municipal budget, that they did and realized a particular project. Especially as our country's ambience changes and economic environments and how we adopt many European values, it is necessary to change our programmes, to introduce citizens to these new values, and therefore it is necessary to find other ways of funding. If we are always within that and we are so casual that a certain amount of money arrives every month or after a certain period in our accounts, there will be hardly creativity, we will hardly be able to conduct a competition, and the competition is going out on an open market where indeed only quality, tenacity, dedication and work are winning. It's something that can score in Serbia. That's what I have to insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7041	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7042	Dear Mr Minister, the Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, our amendment in Article 17, which adds a new position 2 which reads as units of local self-government, municipalities and cities provide for the achievement of the objectives set out in Article 1 of this article, amounting to at least 2% of the budget. For cities above 300,000 people, the percentage should not be less than 1%. The withdrawal of the state from ownership in the media and the change in the way of funding provides and obliges authorities at the republic, province and local level to provide part of the budget for public interest in the field of public information and to allocate funds on the basis of public competitions implemented. We have heard from the prime minister yesterday many accusations at the expense of some MPs that they have called on people not to pay for electricity and electricity, and I cannot otherwise understand his promise not to pay the TV subscription, but as a direct invitation to pay it and not to pay. He promised to cancel a TV subscription and thus certainly reduced the percentage of public service financing in the Republic of Serbia. I think it's important when we talk about this analysis of the current processes in the state, and it's clear that local self-government with less and less money is available, it's clear that we have a big problem in public funding and that this leads to one process of centralisation, because local self-government has less and less of that space. I'm talking about the right of a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia to have its own public service. I would like to say that the coverage of this part of the budget, the mandatory fees imposed by this law, is only on the territory of the city of Belgrade and Vojvodina, while in the rest of Serbia we do not have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7043	Thank you. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7044	Under this law, I have submitted several amendments, as well as an amendment to Article 10 for which I have not received my word. Now I'm gonna go after the amendment to Article 17. I have suggested that attitude 2 is changed and said – a maximum of 5% of the funds identified for individual donations can be identified from the total means of achieving public interest through public competitions. The local self-government unit provides at least 2% of the budget for public interest in the field of public information. A 60% share of the funds collected is intended to finance regional public services and the rest of 40% of the project financing of commercial media. Public services do not have the right to compete for funding through projects, which are distributed by the republic, autonomous province and local self-government units. I proposed this in order to respect a higher act which was adopted several years ago, which is a Strategy on the development of a public information system that plans to design these regional public services in part. In this way, by allowing units of local self-government to define certain funds for public services, it allows local self-governments to see the interests of the local population, local citizens. In a way, they have timely and real information. When I say this, I'm not just talking about Southeast Serbia, I'm talking about northwestern Serbia, about Shumadia, because through the debate in the past session, we had very strong and broad arguments for the establishment of these regional public services. I'm just going to point out one more fact that I was saying through the principle debate, it's that 36,000 Nishli signed an initiative for the remainder of television as a regional public service. The Nis City Assembly's decisions call for low television to be a public regional service. When we speak in the interest of citizens, when we talk about the will of citizens, we must in some way respect that will of the citizens, because 36,000 Nislims did not give their vote for order, but they voiced because they wanted to have their own public voice to inform them about local problems, about the problems of the city, of the region. So in this way we only provide the local self-government with the ability to define the funds and finance these local media in some way. Once again, I call on the Minister and all of us to consider and to have one situation, equal throughout Serbia, not to allow the state to be co-owner or owner of only two public services of RTS and RTTV, but to give the possibility that if the Strategy provides, we will have these regional services and simply be all and timely and objectively informed about what interests citizens, rather than about some issues that do not interest local citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7045	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7046	Mr. Minister, regarding this amendment, I think that, of course, your intention is good and everything the recommendations have deleted and what the demand for a media scene in Serbia needs to be respected. I think that the previous colleague was talking about something that seems to us, in my deep confidence, after monitoring all the analyses, something that is entirely justified, and I think today the main topic will be, in addition to regional public services, financing local services, or local television and radio stations, and justifying the concern of the MPs that, with all the good effects that these laws bring, we will have some bad ones. They will cause some local media to be shut down, and what we are safe for now is that there are no regional public services, with respect, of course, and the need to open a competition on the Serbian media scene, above all in the competitions for project financing, I think it would be easier for all of us. I have conducted some analyses based on the ministry's response to the amendments I have submitted myself, to see how much staff, budget funds from local self-government, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia have some media, and that will be our mathematical part, will be the best basis for discussing the future of our media. Chairman, if I exceed my time, please, I will use the time of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative. Let's say, if we take as an example of RTV Kragujevac, she gets 36,000 euros or 42,000 euros per month from the Kragujevac budget on an annual basis. For six regional public services if we took as a parameter the costs of RTV Kragujevac would mean that for six regional public services, 2,191,000 euros should be allocated. On the other hand, we have the redundancies from the RTS budget, the required allocations, six billion dinars at an annual level or 52,173,000 euros and for RTV 1.678.000,000 or 14.591.404 euros. That is a total of 66,765,217 euros. Only 3% of the resources we allocate for RTS and TV are needed to operate six regional public services. In previous issues, which I asked Mr. Bratislava Petkovic, while he was a culture minister, I have answers from Mr. Petkovic. He promised in written letters that the ministry would find the best solutions to ensure citizens' right to provide objective and timely information on all events relevant to their environment. With such legal proposals, I am afraid, in addition to the lack of regional public services, and this has also shown us an analysis of privatisation, that we, in addition to not having regional public services, are going to lose some of the local relevant messages for informing people about specific events related to their environment. Of course, project funding is good because of the competition and we as a parliamentary group fully support it, but it is simply about funding that may not be able to fully cover 24 hours of radio or TV programs, as local media are now doing. Let's say we have some imbalances related to the number of employees with the same quality of the media program with the national frequency. RTV B92 has just over 350 employees, and RTS 5,200 employees. It seems to me that a lot of fewer people work equally or similar to the quality of the program as RTS. That's why I'd like to ask the ministers, since this is going to be a topic, it seems to me, which will dominate this day that, when we talk about this, we speak the language of numbers. The numbers are inexorable. When we bring out mathematical data, then it will be easy for us all to remain convinced that we are right in our views or to give up our beliefs and say that we are wrong. So I would like to ask you, in the future, to discuss these issues, that you bring us some important information that I've mentioned now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7047	Thank you. Minister of Government Ivan Tasovac called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7048	I have to draw your attention to the fact that your exposure makes it look like we're shutting down regional public services right now, and regional public services don't exist. There are certain city televisions that are fully financed from the budget of local self-government. So, I think it would be very important for people to understand. We're talking local TV here. Again, it is legitimate for everyone to challenge the state's decision to withdraw from the media ownership structure. That's the only thing we agree on. Secondly, we predicted what it is European practice, because I don't know a single European country that doesn't have its own public service. We predicted the existence of two public services, respecting the fact that TV has programmes in the languages of 11 national minorities, because, among other things, informing in the native language of national minorities is one of the very important things for this whole set of laws. One more thing, I'll be back. By prescribing local self-governments how much they will separate from their budget would indeed pose a threat to their sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7049	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7050	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, as far as I understand it, here a part of the MPs actually don't understand the concept of regional television centres in the right way. I would just rely on your story, so we don't have a regional television centre, and the practice in the world is like this – the public service of a country or state television in a country in some country provides for regional centres in its own country. When a public service RTS, it should provide for a regional centre, for example, its internal organisation. in Nis. They're workers who belong to a public service, it's independent. Right? They should be producing a whole day's program. In order for that to happen, we must have the first financially strong public service, or RTS. I hope that by introducing a tax from 2016 the RTS public service will have a stable financial situation and that it will be able to plan for its regional centres to work in some subsequent period. What you're talking about, it's local television, it's not a regional center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7051	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you are, the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7052	Thank you, Chairman. Just so we understand each other completely. Speaking of this amendment, I was talking about the necessity of a competition in Serbia's media space and I support full project financing. Whoever's the best, let him get the right to broadcast certain local events, to the assembly, to organize a day-long program, to run public messages, etc. That's not at all controversial. You're talking, Minister, that I was talking about abolishing regional public services, and I was talking about the necessity that they exist. The answer is there's no money, and I think there's money, but it's not well distributed. For example, on "Low TV" is the average salary of 26,000 dinars and with 80 and some employees have 24 hours a day of radio and television. I am now speaking on the assumption that at the "Low Television" contest, it will become a regional public service, that this is foreseen by law. I speak and beg to speak the language of the number. Only 3% of what all Serbian citizens now through budget and subscription, and tomorrow through tax, separates for funding two public services, only 3% of which are needed to finance six regional public services. That's all I'm talking about. I'm not talking about extra employees. It is believed that there are 3,000 on RTS, and there are 1,450 employees on TV, at RTS 5,200. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about only 3% of these funds being financed by six regional public services. The current media scene in Serbia is such that, in my deep confidence, in order to achieve the goals that you are seeking, and the media strategy will be necessary to form six regional public centres, with the remaining of what is a phenomenal solution, which is a competition, which is – project financing. Whoever wins and becomes the best and most favourable bidder in the competition for certain projects, can transfer a certain profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7053	The People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7054	Is he like an amendment or a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7055	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Stosic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7056	I can accept that some MPs may not be in the process of what is public, regional, and what is local public service, but when we talk about regional public services, we are talking about a document brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are talking about a public information strategy that provides for six regional public services. So it doesn't matter whether these regional public services exist now or not, but there is one document based on which this law was to be drawn up, which provides for six regional public services. What Mr. Chikiriz was saying is that there is some belief that there is not enough financial resources to set up regional public services. The whole thesis cannot go away, because with 26 000 average salaries in "Niška TV" or with a monthly salary of over 200 000 for someone employed in RTS, it is illusory to talk about the inability or lack of financial resources to finance regional public services. It is in our interest, gentlemen, that we have at the place, through regions, through regions, through locals, through cities, municipalities, that we have public information as the citizens of these cities and municipalities, that is, those regions. With all due respect, I like to watch "Belgrade Chronicle", but I am much more interested in what's going on on in Pantheli, Duvanište or some other settlement of the town of Nis, than what's going on on on on Ban's Hill, what's going on in the circle of "two", etc. If we want to satisfy the interests of citizens across Serbia, then we should think exactly in the work envisioned by the Strategy – the formation of regional public services, to cover all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7057	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7058	Thank you. I understand distinguished fellow MPs who may have spent their working lives and even their lives in some era when television was just growing. However, in the era of digital television, and we will have to complete the digitalisation process in 2015, all of what you are looking for now is completely pointless, because in the era of digital television you will be able to have a RTS that will be able to play a completely different programme in Nis, completely different in Belgrade and the tenth in Valjevo, for example, if there is a regional centre. So there's no need for what you said. I agree with you that it was a strategy to give six regional centres, but that was when frequencies were assigned. In the future, there will be no more frequency assignments, but you will have digital television, where you can combine different types of programs. Thus, it is completely pointless to think that I do not know how many public services open in Serbia, because neither citizens can pay for it, nor does it have any purpose in the era of digital television and advanced technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7059	Thank you. The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7060	A colleague, Djukanovic, said a lot of things in the previous exhibition from what I wanted. I would say to a fellow MP who spoke before Djukanovic that it would be a shame if we had 24 regions and 24 new regional public services now. It's simply a great imposition for citizens, and each region already has its own programme through the Public Service, whether it's RTS or RTV, which is represented in the afternoon, in the given term, a show called "Regions Today". This complements what is called information from every region. On the other hand, media assistance is in any case good through what the ministry has come up with, through programmes and projects, because in this way every television will go out curly on the market. So far it's been a legal obligation, i.e. The RRA was calling, it seems to me it was 50% to be its own program, now it's reduced to 25%, and it's a good thing for television, so it's going to concentrate on that 25%, and if 25% is a good program, they can commercially go out on the market. Given that the ministry thought through this law, and also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to cover what was called regional public services in some previous time period, but I have to tell you that it was not in the past few years, that it was about a decade and a half ago and that these regional public services through the public stands were imposed in a public debate under the law. Many European countries have a law similar to this, and I will support the law as a whole in the voting day, although I have tabled one amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7061	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Stosic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7062	Modernisation in all spheres of life is very important, well, as the honourable MP said, and modernization in public information through digitalisation is very important and it's good that it will be. I'm glad that we in Nis will have the opportunity to watch a special program designed for Nis. But, simply, we in Nis want that program to be done by Nisli, not by someone in Belgrade to serve us how we're going to look at him in Nis. The thing is, we do decentralisation in this part too. We keep talking about decentralisation, and every new law we centralize every area. Because of this, and because of modernisation and digitisation, the programme, concerning Nis, concerning southeastern Serbia, Shumadija or northwestern Serbia, should work for people living there, because they know the problems of these parts and these cities best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7063	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7064	Apparently, a colleague just didn't get it right. There is already a team of RTS working at every regional centre in Serbia. It's so-called. correspondence and these are always people from cities where RTS correspondence is located and they are building a regional programme. It goes daily through the show "Serbia Today", etc. Several shows have such character, there are on the Second Programme, and there are also on the First Programme on Sundays, "Zika's iris" and some other shows, so the public service mostly covered all regions, if not all, then there is TRV. I think people work in correspondence, people in the middle where they come from, so these people make that program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7065	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The People's MP Mirko Chikiriz came forward. You only have time for the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7066	I will use the time of the head of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative. To be fully understood, digitisation will be something that is necessary, which is the future, our need and what is the request of Brussels. We'll do it in a year and a half. If you provide for the existence of a regional public service in law, e.g. in Kragujevac, a television that wants to become a regional public service will have to meet all these conditions, including digital television. I don't mind winning any TV in the competition, but it's important to deal with the topic from the locals. Now I'm going to tell you what the media scene in Kragujevac is and why I'm persistent in this effort. For TV, Kragujevac stands out from the city budget at an annual level of 365,000 euros. Tomorrow, when there is a privatisation process, I would like to see an investor who will be ready every year to allocate that money to finance radio-television and, on the other hand, to the market, from commercial services and other services they work with, radio-television, do positive business. Two regional frequencies exist, have two TV stations in Kragujevac, Kragujevac TV, financed from the city budget and one private TV channel 9, which is in huge financial problems. What my concern is that with this privatisation deadline and that you did not predict the existence of regional public services that Kragujevac as a city with 200,000 inhabitants might be left without television. On the other hand, we've heard that in the afternoon, we're going to have something that's going to look like a "Serbia Today" show. That's what Mr. Mirkovic said, and since he interpreted it, I didn't tell the Minister that you said that, that we understand each other. What's that gonna mean? This will mean that in those hours and a half or two, how long this show takes, we will be able to touch one event from each district south of Belgrade. There's been a car accident somewhere, there's been a session of the city's assembly, there's a power out there, there's been domestic violence, and I don't think that's what's going to satisfy the people who live in that territory. Secondly, given that all broadcasters have to respect the programming scheme, it means to satisfy cultural content, sports, general information, to conduct debates on relevant topics, etc., what will it look like, for example, the public service information programme of RTV? They won't be able to cover every information show with events in every region at all. That's what I'm talking about, and if we had predicted Novi Sad to be the center of regional public service, then the regional public service would be able to deal with these topics that are important to the lives of citizens in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7067	Thank you. Minister of Government Ivan Tasovac called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7068	I fully understand the fear that no one will appear to privatize, but that can't be a valid reason to give up on the state coming out of the media's ownership structure. One more thing, what I think is important at this point, which we all agreed on, which is that at this point we have two public media services. The rest is local television and we've managed to keep both public media services. The opening of another six regional services is simply not from an economic point of view, since we have barely managed to secure this until the introduction of the tax, it means completely from the budget. But I'll tell you something else. And it's important to me here in Belgrade that I know what's going on in Kragujevac and what's going on in Nis and what's going on in Vranje and what's going on in other cities, and that regional services can't afford me, because it can just afford a public service. If you think we're not interested in what's going on outside Belgrade, it's really an argument that I can't accept, especially someone like the culture minister who knows what's going on in other cities. But what I think is valuable here and I hope that the leadership of both RTS and RTS listen carefully, is what the needs of Serbian citizens are and how they must improve their programme through time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7069	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7070	One more time, and I won't answer at this point again. Of course, Minister, but you're wrong now, because then it wouldn't be six, then it should be 24 regional services or 29. because why would a region stay that way. The county ran out of TV. That's what we always watch, so to replace what's good, something that's wrong. In this case, we're changing something by this law that you've proposed, something that's wrong, something good. I travel regularly through Serbia, when I turn on radio stations you always have local radio stations on the ground where you are and of course radio "S" or radio "B92" or RTS radio Belgrade 1, Belgrade 2 etc. So there's coverage. Permissions already exist in the RRA competition that are divided, they are valid until digitisation. Digitalisation allows many local media to go online to go on digital television and find funds to fund. Of course, if they're interesting on the bar, television or radio, they'll probably watch or listen to the media that's talking about local issues, because that's why they're interested in local issues. If it is to be placed, then, a topic that is important for other citizens of Serbia, and that is known from the locals there are central media that will employ people right from the scene, type of correspondents, written media or e-media correspondents. In this way, in the local environments themselves, to create new jobs, but to pay them literally from their Belgrade budgets. That's another good old one in this law. I think what this law will allow for in some future period of time. I'm saying, you've written a great law, and I absolutely support you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7071	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7072	Again, I'm trying to sort of explain to people, although it's really hard to go, we're used to something that's modern. In the era of digital television, you can simply broadcast from one center any program you want in any region. And among other things, at a centre, if it were to be the RTS regional centre in Kragujevac, it could broadcast a completely different RTS programme at that point compared to what is being broadcast in Belgrade. I understand that RTS may leave those central, impact shows to everyone to watch, say, "Zika's iris", "One song, one wish", "Dnevnik" and so on, but you'll be able to see a bunch of other shows in production, say, this regional centre in Kragujevac, and it's being broadcast right in Kragujevac, because it's simply in the era of digitisation possible. You can put on the portal as much as you want and take off and watch only that contribution. It's simply something digital television allows. What you're saying now, I agree with you, but it's in the era when frequencies were assigned. The frequencies will no longer be allocated. We're going into digitization, and that's something that's good. I see one problem here, I hope that the state will manage to solve it through a ministry that has telecommunications in its powers, that's how all citizens get a digital signal, because it's really a problem. But as far as these other things are concerned, you don't have to worry, every region will absolutely have representation and programs, and whatever you want, and it will be able to look at what they are, of course, in that region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7073	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Before I give you my word, Mr. Chikiriz, just to be clear, it's not a problem you're wasting your time as head of the parliamentary group and some MPs have been on the phone a few times, just once again to point out that we're on the amendment to Article 17, which I don't think has much to do with what you're discussing. Here you go. MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7074	Thank you, Chairman. I'll try to find a connection. It's just a discussion going the wrong way. There are MPs who mix terms, district and region. The region is something that covers more districts. I'm talking about the center of a regional public service that would cover more districts. The arguments are crucial, neither is the digitalisation of the ministry, nor is there anything but the lack of funds. We'll pay in a year and a half tax. It'll be a maximum of 500 dinars. Three and a half million electric counts in Serbia. If the maximum tax was 500 dinars, that would be a billion 750m euros per year. If the chargeability was 50% alone, it would be close to 900m euros, and for the functioning of regional public services, for example in Kragujevac TV, it takes a little more than 2m euros. I'm saying there's money if we're thinking the same way. He's got it too. In doing so, a colleague, Stosic, mentioned salaries of public service employees over 200,000 dinars. The director of Kragujevac Television has 49,000 dinars. So, let's get our salaries in line, let's let all directors at least have salaries as MPs of 100,000 dinars or salaries as ministers of 100,000 dinars. Which is why a minister is doing a more socially important job, or a minister's leader, or a prime minister, or a president of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7075	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. I'm not going to be incorrect right now to read this amendment, to see that it has nothing to do with what you just said. The subject of the amendment, MP Milorad Stosic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7076	I just want there to be no confusion here, it turns out now that some MPs are defending the law, and it's about one amendment. Please, no one here has made any objections to the law, but we are talking and talking about an amendment that needs to provide certain resources for the operation of some local public services. Therefore, this law has many good solutions, including transparency and project financing, but I think a number of MPs speak in general about the law, and I would like to refer through these discussions only to this section of the amendment, under Article 17, which means that the law is generally acceptable, but we just want to improve this into part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7077	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7078	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think the bill promoter was very clear here when he said that local self-government would participate in co-financing of local media based on competition and projects. What level of these funds will be and how much funds will be allocated from the budget, you will agree that this is a matter of local self-government. It seems to me that there's a kind of presession to local self-government here, what percentages and what level of resources they're going to allocate. They're going to allocate as much resources as they can. The councils of a certain local self-government will decide on that height. I also think that the proposer here has done one great thing with this law, which is that in the future it will also prevent the manipulation of local media in pre-election campaigns, which has been the case in many places.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7079	The amendment to Article 17 was brought together by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7080	This amendment, however, wanted us to determine that local self-government should participate in the financing of local media, so we suggested that attitude 3 be changed and that local self-government should provide at least 1.5% of the funds for public interest in the field of public information in its budget. We think there should still be good will, but sometimes good will is a very relative thing. It means that the goodwill of local self-government to finance or not finance local media depends on some president of the Assembly, municipality or mayor or municipal council, so it is necessary to regulate guarantees that will ensure that the state at all levels, and in particular local self-government allocates funds for media content, i.e. that the funds invested in the media sector through the financing of media and media content, and subsidized public enterprises and information institutions will continue to be dedicated to informing, but through competitive, or project financing of media content. The state must be guaranteed public interest in the media sphere of the local. Otherwise, this law can have the opposite effect of an expected one, and instead of improving the media scene, it can contribute to the shutting down of a large number of media and the dismissal of journalists and other employees. The state's exit from the media sphere without guarantee, that local self-government will continue to allocate information funds, can lead to the shutting down of local and regional media. In that case, this law will favour large-scale centrifugal media compared to regional and local ones, which is not acceptable and leads to further centralisation of the country. The minister mentioned, truth be told, that TV informs in 11 languages and that's true. Emissions in the languages of the national community generally inform about what is happening in a particular national community. They try to inform about their identity, try to inform about what is happening in one national community in the field of education and information, official use of language and letter, most of all in culture. Rarely in the language of the national minority, and within the framework of the already public service, RTV rarely deals with local matters in which members of national communities live, and this is the case with local media. In my opinion, we've heard a variety of interpretations and your interpretation of selling it to be good and that people won't lose their jobs, that they'll inform, yes, maybe, but it'll be good will for local leaders, whether they'll finance, what projects they'll be, etc. I also support MP Stosic from Nis and other MPs who defended local and regional media. I will give you an example of a television station in Kovacica, which is a municipality with the majority population of Slovakia, but also of the Hungarian and Romanian population. They have been informing in four languages for more than 50 years, in Romanian, Hungarian, Serbian. Putting that television and radio into some commercial level, on the privatization, I think it's really going to shut down that medium, because who's going to deal with the media at a bar in a municipality that tracks four languages. That person who's going to privatize that medium is not going to get anything out of it, it's just all looking through commercial today, it's all looking through some material prism, so I think it's really going to be these media... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7081	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Stosic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7082	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary. Article 18 speaks of the following, talks about competitions and says – competitions are being asked about projects, under one – production of media content; under two – organisation and participation in professional, scientific and appropriate meetings as well as improving professional and ethical standards in the field of public information and not reading a member further, not wasting time. My proposal is to delete this "appropriate" from Article 18 so that Article 2 would read – organisation and participation at professional, scientific meetings, as well as improve professional and ethical standards in the field of public information. What's interesting...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7083	Mr. Bradic, please, you have not responded to your amendment, you have submitted by amendment of Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7084	No, I've submitted the amendment. I thought you gave it to me because it was my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7085	No, no, I haven't come to your amendment yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7086	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7087	Does anyone want Mr. Stosic's amendment? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7088	I'd just like to ask you the time I used to take off these two minutes, because that's my amendment. Thank you. The answer of the ministry is – the amendment is rejected for reasons why the adoption of the amendment would make it unclear and precise. So what I am asking to delete is appropriate and that Article 2 reads – organisation and participation at professional, scientific meetings, as well as the improvement of professional and ethical standards in the field of public information is not clear enough, and more clearly what the ministry is proposing – organisation and participation in professional, scientific and appropriate meetings. Now I ask Mr. Minister – what is the occasion? Who determines what is a suitable gathering? Where does it say what convenient gatherings are, because those who organize gatherings and want their gathering to be transferred? He needs to know what it is that he needs to meet that rally in order to be suitable and to pass on. Please respect my amendment, I think it makes sense, that it is clear and that it gives the legislator clear and precise guidelines on how to apply this article. This is how we leave the possibility for someone in Nis to interpret it in a different way, in Belgrade, in a third way in Zajecar and Novi Sad, and I ask that the law be equally, clear and equally interpreted in the territory of the entire Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7089	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Minister of Government Ivan Tasovac called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7090	This will certainly be regulated through a sublegal act, and to explain to you the word "suitable" that attracted my attention, what it is and how to define, say, jubilee. Marking the Jubilee of the Great War, Nicola Tesla, Pupina. So it's understood that it's on the one hand, on the other hand, how to characterize exactly going to various professional gatherings, news associations, I'd draw your attention to that, the conferences, so, but that part, you've well noticed, it's going to be regulated through the legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7091	Thank you. The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7092	Thank you. I'm also just going to help my colleagues from the New Democratic Party, and this and the minister, how would you say, the minister is right, yes, the West for the eye, but the word was correctly used, what would you call the Gittariade project? So, here you go from tonight to Monday at Gitariad.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7093	Thank you. Dr. Blagoje Bradic called, but you don't have time anymore. Would you like to take part in the parliamentary group? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: No. I thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7094	Thank you. My colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, and I have submitted an amendment defining the opening of the competition, which concerns Article 15, which I have already spoken about, which defines what public interest is. When we find out in this article what the public interest is, then here we are talking about that to satisfy this public interest, to support the production of media content, the competition is being called. As we have tried there to reach out to the promoter by proposing a special point that we will have education for the system in which we live, because the knowledge and information, whoever it is, is not in a position to be an equal negotiator to anyone who has any power public, anywhere, so here we want to ensure that the amendments which are discussed by the authorities of Article 1 of this Article are meant by competitions to satisfy public interest, at least once every three years must cover all areas defined by Article 15. While we were making this amendment, there was a discussion on how to formulate what we want, so that it wouldn't be because of the way that article 15 is defined about what the public interest is and how we can support the competition so that one simply doesn't stay behind, so there's no one interested in the educational programme, so no one is interested in cultural content, so no one is interested in critical learning about critical opinion, it's simply not interested. There's a market law I'm attached to, but progressive societies are the ones who understand where the market ends and where it starts to stifle progress in a society. Accept this amendment to the future, when this law will be amended by such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7095	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 24 regulates the competition commission. It is said here, among other things, that the members of the expert commission referred to in Article 1 shall be appointed by the head of the authority who has called the competition. In point 4, the majority of the members of the committee of the Article 1st position are named on the proposal of journalists and media associations if such proposals exist, etc. This "if such proposals exist" is very undefined for us, because there is no obligation for the head of the body to seek opinion from journalists and professional associations. In order for such proposals to exist, he must inform them to submit their proposals in order to take these proposals into account when the Commission is appointed. That is why we have provided that Article 24 following this Article 4 adds the views of the 5th and 6th, which reads as follows: "The head of the body of the Article 3rd position of this member is required to send to the press and media associations a call for proposals for members of the Commission" and Article 6: "The Association of Item 5 delivers its proposals within 15 days of receipt of the call. Following this, attitude four would have become attitude seven. This is what we wanted to do to make the manager look for proposals for members of the commission, so if we left an appropriate 15-day deadline, within 15 days of delivery, then he no longer has the obligation to wait. The amendment clearly specified the obligation of the body manager to call journalists and media associations to submit a proposal for members of the commission. However, the government rejected the amendment for the reason that the proposed solution before represents the matter of sublegal acts. We believe that this is not a matter for sublegal acts, but for legal acts, because sublegal acts serve only to regulate a particular area more precisely, they cannot give greater legal restrictions than the law, and therefore this restriction of the executive, namely the creation of his obligation to seek that opinion, would have to stand in the law. If it doesn't stand in the law, it won't be possible to extend that restriction by sublaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7097	Thank you. Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Government, picked up the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7098	Here in response it was said that it was before the subject of a sublegal act. I'm really not a lawyer, and I can't doubt what was said here, but I'm just asking you to imagine the situation so as not to invite representatives of the press associations to be members of the commission. Do you think it's something that's even possible and that's something that would just go on? It would be perfectly justified to have a very violent reaction from the entire media community. That's exactly why we predicted that they would be the people who would be on those commissions, to ensure full transparency, because they would be writing about their work to committees. I think it's a very good example of how committees operate within the Ministry of Culture, in all areas. Twenty-six commissions had full open work, it was open to the media and to all those who participated in the projects and were interested, so I think your fear here is completely baseless.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7099	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, came forward. Just tell me, what time do you want to use? (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: Time of the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7100	Thank you. I reported on this amendment, but the minister in his presentation gave me additional inspiration in the fact that he prejudges how some future power will behave against the media. So you're saying -- it's hard to imagine that someone isn't inviting representatives of media associations to that commission. Well, everything in this country is hard to imagine, but it's still happening. The strangest things happen here, and unlike a organised, civilized world, we happen to have media freedoms in Serbia at the highest possible level. That's what all those who have been monitoring the state of the media in Serbia said, so it is possible that media representatives are not in this commission as well. If you had settled it with this law, then there wouldn't be that fear. You have convincingly the worst lawyers in all the ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I've read the explanations of various ministries, but I haven't heard any of these findings and these kind of non-legal findings and expressions anywhere. Minister Tasovac, since you are not a lawyer, sublaws regulate the way in which individual rights and obligations are realised. Underlaws do not prescribe new rights and obligations. You can't, under the law, prescribe some obligation for someone who isn't required by law. You can only prescribe the way these obligations will be realized. In that sense, not only in this article, many members write a lot of things that are not only written by a lawyer, but someone who doesn't understand himself at all in this sphere. So, you have a catastrophic explanation for not accepting the proposal. We'll talk to some members about it in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7101	I thank you, Mr. Veselinović, for not using the word "uncivilised" and not mentioning some ministry lawyers with such qualifications. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7102	So there's no confusion. So, the law clearly predicted that members of the competition commission were, among other things, members of the press associations and media associations. Also, but the chairman has already said, I would really ask that the people who have worked on these laws do not disqualify this dictionary. I'm also glad that I, even though I'm not a lawyer, have managed to inspire you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7103	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7104	Thank you. I have to react to that and say something quite the opposite, which the citizens will be sure of and I believe they will be on my side. In this country, nothing less happens in Serbia, either unimaginable or unpredictable than in the rest of the civilized world and Europe, or in the region where we are. So these grades are very inappropriate, they have no place in the discussion. The better attitudes of both international institutions and international experts and domestic news and media associations speak about how good or bad this law is, or what freedom of the media is in Serbia. I will remind myself once again, because it is persistently spoken against and disregarded these facts, and "Transparency of Serbia" and the Association of Journalists of Serbia and NUNS, everyone has confirmed that this set of media laws is in line with the basic intensities of the media strategy, and after an analysis of the bill, it has been estimated that the proposer has accepted the most important suggestions of the media community. This has been published in all the journals. I specifically singled out a quote from TANJUG Agency, BETA, published in the list “Blic” on July 29 at 18 hours and 14 minutes. To end with this, not to confuse the citizens anymore, and I will keep repeating this without talking about the international community's confirmations, the European Commission's estimates, which have been repeated many times, are very interesting that representatives of all political parties in talks with Mr Michael Davenport have confirmed that they will support this bill and many media news associations. So you don't need to confuse the citizens further. Another false piece of information. counterpart Biljana Hasanovic-Korac said during the morning exposure that when we talk about media censorship, the media did not report on the National Conference of the Women's Parliamentary Network, because they only wanted censorship or self-censorship to report on the appearance of Mr Neboja Stefanovic, then president of the Serbian Parliament. This is fully derived from the context, put in place for day-to-day policy purposes, i.e. for the purpose of explaining one amendment under this law. That's not true. What is my opinion, especially those who know Mr Stefanovic, that the media, journalists, who were then reporting are not interested in the topic of gender equality. We haven't paid enough attention to them, we may not have suggested enough how important the subject is. It is one of the tasks of the Women's Parliamentary Network, but putting in that context representatives, SNS officials, so for God's sake, I was the first coordinator and one of those who prepared it with you. Isn't it the same to media representatives whether I will be there or not, Nebojsa Stefanovic? So it's someone from SNS. It's about insufficient interest in the subject of gender equality. So, don't confuse again, that's what you do all the time. Let's go back to a constructive debate about this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7105	Biljana Hasanovic-Korac answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7106	Replica, since I've been called directly. I have to explain, I'm misunderstood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7107	You have no chance of replicating, you can only use MPs' time. I couldn't see anything that you'd have a chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7108	She denied her colleague what I said. I have to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7109	Mrs Hasanovic-Korac, do you want to use the time of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7110	I want to use it. I listed it as an example of the self-censorship of journalists. I did not say it was the president of the assembly's fault, but that the event, which was of other nature, was presented in the media so that it was only emphasized that it was opened by the president of the assembly. The media didn't even care what a woman's network is, which she does, who runs it, who comes to that assembly. That's right. They can look at the footage. I'm not blaming the President of the Assembly either. It didn't affect it, but journalists self-censored and wanted to show what they considered important and what was suitable for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7111	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7112	I don't suppose you're going to give me a replica, so I'm going to use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. I will refer to what the distinguished colleague Obradovic said. We talked about two completely different topics, me and Mrs. Obradovic. I was talking about the media scene in Serbia, the media scene today, yesterday in Serbia, so in the last two years. I wasn't talking about the quality of these laws. I was talking about the media scene in Serbia. I've been telling the truth about the quality of these laws in terms of their bad arguments, which is why no amendments have been accepted. We are not going to get an assessment that the media scene in Serbia is satisfactory. The fact that it is bad is said by all the official, credible reports that exist on the subject in the last year, two days. About these laws being good, we can argue, we can say from the opposition that there are many good solutions and that they would probably give and get good results in the UK, France and Denmark. I'm afraid in a Serbia like this, as it is today, they can produce any results to improve this media scene today. There's our basic concern and there's our concern for the media scene in some future period and we're seriously afraid what it's going to look like when it's like this today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7113	That's probably why you're voting for this modern, European information law. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7114	The media scene, media freedom, the situation isn't great, it should always be promoted, but who passed the laws, and by what laws was this all going on? Why are we changing this law? So, the ones who brought it before, they didn't get it right in good shape, they didn't do it right. We can't blame journalists now for being such a media scene either they're not doing well or they're not well-educated or maybe politicians who are pushing those poor journalists. What I'm saying is too vulgar, it's just not how we should express ourselves. That's why we're making a new, better law that, we all agree, is good, only in shades to fix it. We're fixing the laws that you've passed. You contributed to this legal basis to get here where we are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7115	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7116	I have to admit, there may be logic in this amendment, but it's hardly possible in this form to be accepted. I believe that if it were modified, if it had been modified, it could have been accepted. You know, if someone's putting up with it out of fear of what kind of board members are gonna be like, I understand because maybe it's an auto projection from a previous period. Just to see that member, say, RRA or any other authority that could say anything about that media campaign you were doing against Tomislav Nikolic in the presidential campaign. It was the most monstrous thing anyone could have imagined, and nobody dared tell A because he knew he was risking being kicked out of work. That's why I understand your fear. You're aware of what you've been doing. Since you've passed the law that we have today, which has brought full censorship into our media, and yet we change it with far better laws, which we all praise, and we're promoting the media scene, I believe you have no reason to fear, because our goal is to make the media as free as possible and never go back to what you used to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7117	The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7118	Another explanation, I hope that's enough. So, I don't know if anyone in this hall from the MPs and the honourable minister thinks that the bad media scene in Serbia is due to the bad law in this area. I don't think even little kids believe that. The bad media scene is due to the influence of the executive government on the media, one way or another, in the last few years, but it has changed dramatically in the last two years. The fact that several provisions of existing laws will be changed will not fix anything in that sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7119	Mr. Veselinović, so far I have tolerated not talking about an amendment that is on the agenda. Please return to the amendment, because I will no longer tolerate it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7120	You took 15 seconds through your comments. You just spoke to the chairman as a speaker, and now you've turned off my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7121	The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7122	I'd just like to be specific. We're not changing a few members here, we're passing a set of media laws. The second thing, to settle one area, I think the first step is to establish legal frameworks that are according to some standards of Europe and that are according to standards that guarantee freedom of the media. I think it's the first step, but the second step is to act parapsychologically. I really believe this is the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, I want to address you, for years I have been following your professional career, and I think you have achieved great success here and I really appreciate everything you've done, especially what you've done for the popularization of Philharmonic and it's just one part of our cultural scene. What you're covering right now is really much broader and I understand that you're not a lawyer, that you have problems sometimes, that what you want to achieve in the legal frameworks. I've been a lawyer for thirty-five years, and I've worked in different professions and local self-government and as a lawyer, and now I work here. As long as I didn't come here, I was working on the application rights, and I know that there are often problems in practice because the laws are written by experts who sit in cabinets who don't have direct contacts in the application of their rights, and that's why we're trying to make it possible for our amendments when the law comes in application as best as possible. Obviously, by submitting only 15 amendments to this law, we want to fix the law. We did not say – the law is wrong, we did not submit to each member “to delete” because we do not want it to be brought. On the contrary, and that is why we have also submitted this amendment to Article 25, where I propose that the 1st position is changed, the decision on the allocation of funds is made by the body manager who has called for the competition, and based on the Commission's reasoned proposal. We felt that this formulation, and on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the Commission, was not binding enough for the manager to respect the expert opinion of the Commission, so we suggested that this position be reformed and that, on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the Commission, the head of the body that called the competition decided on the allocation of funds. The amendment is rejected by reason that the proposed solution is the same as in the draft law. You know, any lawyer who would have read each other's solution would have seen that it wasn't the same and that it didn't have the same binding force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7125	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 26th Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic, MP Dr Blagoja Bradic, MP Milorad Stosic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7126	We are with this amendment, i.e. I, and also in the same text and other colleagues, added Article 26 to Article 3 which reads - that a narrative and financial report on the project activities carried out is delivered to the competent authority, i.e. the competent national authority. In the event that projects are financed from abroad, so as not to distort freedom and equality of competition on the domestic market. We are witnesses that in recent years we have entered into our country significant financial resources in the field of information, sometimes they have been realised sometimes not, and that there is no real record or control of how and for which purposes they have been spent. Like domestic state aid, financial support from abroad affects free competition on the domestic market, making it necessary for the competition protection commission to analyse, approve or prohibit this type of financial assistance from abroad to domestic media. I think that this way we would significantly accelerate transparency, order, respect for law and equality on the media market in Serbia. We do not see why the government has refused this amendment in the first place, given the fact that it is going towards a more regulatory, otherwise rather wild media market in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7127	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7128	As an applicant for the amendment, two minutes. So, in order not to repeat what my colleague Stefanovic said, I will only comment on the government's argument, i.e. The ministry and the ministry's legal services why this one was rejected. It says - the amendment is rejected for the reason that any body can control the funds it has approved on its own on a competition or on another basis. I'm talking about funds, that's what I'm talking about. We who have submitted this amendment have said in reason – in recent years, significant financial resources have entered our country in the field of information, and there is no real record or control of how and for which purposes they have been spent. Like domestic state aid and financial support from abroad affect free competition on the domestic market, it is therefore necessary for the Competition Protection Commission to analyse, approve or prohibit this type of financial assistance from abroad to domestic media. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, on the basis of this argument, to comment on what the Ministry has said, that the amendment is rejected for the reason that any authority can control the funds that it has only approved on a competition or otherwise, and we are talking about foreign aid. So let me see how they found the connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7129	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7130	The Ministry of Culture and Information is responsible for the funds it allocates, and we cannot take control of the funds from some other sources. On the other hand, I think it would seem like a pretty pressure on the media to ask them to deliver as the Ministry of Culture and Information, complete reports on their business. We need to regulate our citizens to be available, public and visible to every kind of state aid, because that's what we're assigning, that's money from the budget, and that's citizens' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7131	Thank you. On Article 26 of the amendment, the MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 28th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to which the title is added after Article 28 and Article 28a were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Gordana Komic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The national MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 31st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović iGoran Bogdanović. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7132	In this amendment, I suggested that, in line with the changes we made as reasoned proposals on behalf of the DS, things should be specified. In Article 32 after Article 3, we added another position - that the legal entities of this article cannot directly or indirectly establish a republic, province or units of local self-government, etc. What's the point? Since it is a clear thing and a general rule of modern media law to public authorities, that is, what is called a Colloquial state, it does not belong to the right to establish a medium, except for a narrow circle of exceptional cases. In order to make this rule fully visible, it is necessary to introduce in Article 32 the proposed provision in the manner in which it was done in the text of the draft law. We never claimed that the state should establish media, and that apropo of your response about an hour and a half ago, we believe that regional and local public services should be established, not state media. We believe that the state should withdraw from the media, of course, and that this would contribute to the transparency of ownership stakes and everything else. Through this amendment, we are merely the overall proposal of DS and some professional associations to specify, of course, and we are sorry that if this is already going up the line of your opinion on media laws, I do not see why this amendment was indeed rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7133	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7134	Thank you very much. You heard the text, because it's identical. The reasons for which the amendment has been rejected is that it is rejected because the solution proposed by the amendment has already been contained in Article 142(1). A bill of law, which is not true. If you look at Article 142 paragraph 1 here it is said that these are transitional and final provisions, this is about privatising state media, or media where there is state, AP or local self-government. Therefore, Article 142(1) does not prevent the establishment of new media that would be owned by the Republic, AP and local self-government units. That's why I think we should accept this amendment that only specifies the further inability to create media from these entities. Any media that is in the hands of the republic, province or local self-government is not independent. It's the experience of Serbia. Every medium, no matter what authority it's been since when there's been a TV, so to this day it's affected, under quotes, on its TV, its radio stations, and it has to be cut off. Of course, many private TVs are under great influence or even under the full influence of some political parties, but at least they do not bear the name of a public service and are not financed, at least not directly by citizens' money. Thus, such a solution given in the amendment would forever remove the possibility of a country, province or local self-government setting up new services, or its own participatory service.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7135	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7136	So, on the basis of the amendment we submitted. Minister, I hope you realize now that this is not parapsychology. You're delirious, you're watching what your lawyers wrote now, aren't you? So we asked to disable the establishment of media, printed media, this is about publishing, by the Republic, the province and the city. You said that you did not accept our amendment because it was regulated in Article 142 and in Article 142, it did not write about the creation of the media, but about the shutting down of the media, or about their, rather, privatisation. Where are we now? You've left the possibility that the republic, the province, the city can establish printed media, which can then be privatized. What do we have now? You defend the thesis that electronic media should be abolished regionally, and this enabled the creation of printed media. Where is your consistency in this law and what really happened to your lawyers this argument? There's a serious problem. Have you read this explanation, by any chance?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7137	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7138	Obviously, there's a serious problem because you've just advocated parapsychology, and I've been talking about the draft of this bill. Another thing, really, if we're going to be dealing with the literary text here, since I hear a lot of remarks on whether or not the literature is said, I don't think that's really the place. So, just explain to me, if there's a clear time until the state has to get out of the media, which is defined. Then where in the explanation here do you have any dilemmas?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7139	The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a replica, as he spoke directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7140	Thank you, President. Minister, I really don't know what to tell you. There is a provision in the law that speaks of which faces can form the media. We wanted to exempt the state, the province and local self-government. The transitional and final provisions refer to media privatisation. Is the state going out or not going out of the media, that's one question? The second question is, can he start them? So it comes out of the existing media, this is a legal question, and can it form a second question. So you can start one institution, and you can also shut down another institution. You're wrong, Minister. You have a serious legal problem. Any local self-government, any republic or province can establish a printed medium in the coming days, and a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7141	Zoran Zivkovic has no right to replication. I'm sorry, you weren't spoken to by the Minister. You have 40 seconds if it means anything to you. [[Zoran Zivkovic: Not a replica, by amendment.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7142	Mr. Minister, for your best, you are wrong here because there is not a sufficiently well-resolved issue of further non-basement, because nothing is forbidden. Many local self-governments have the right in their statutes to establish media that you do not extinguish by this law. Therefore, by accepting this amendment, the law is getting better without moving your intent, but we only have a precise definition and it would be good to accept our amendment. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7143	Thank you, great. Minister, did you want a word? Just one moment, a little consultation, that's also desirable. Please be understanding for a break of 10 seconds. Minister, do you want a word? The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7144	What we agree on is that since July 1st, when it is predicted that the state's exit from the ownership structure of the media must be completed, we agree on that, but it seems to me that here there is a basis for now, by July 1, next year, less than a year, to pre-warn the situation. So if we could just take another look at this attitude or if we could take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7145	We're practically on a break. He can take a minute, let the minister read it one more time. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7147	Indeed, no one could assume that someone would form a medium for the next few months, to privatize it afterwards, but we will accept this amendment, because I think it is entirely on the trail of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7148	Thank you. The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 38th Amendment together. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7149	Thank you, Madam President. On Article 39, which regulates the content of the register and subject matter, we have submitted an amendment to point 8. We have proposed that it be amended so as to read: “A document containing data on legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly have a share in the issuer’s founding capital, regardless of the size of their shares, data on their related persons within the meaning of a law governing the legal position of companies and data on other issuers in which those persons have a share in the founding capital, regardless of the size of the share. “ The proposed amendment achieves a higher degree of transparency in media ownership. We believe that the data on the share in the issuer's founding capital should be available, regardless of the size of those shares, which was ultimately a recommendation from the Anti-Corruption Agency. In the proposal itself, the law is limited to the enrollment of stakes greater than 5%, and this distinguishes our amendment from the text of the bill. The government has rejected our amendment for the reason that up to 5% of the share in founding capital is protected by media pluralism and provides transparency of the ownership structure. If you carefully read this argument of the government, then it turns out that the government has actually accepted our amendment, because it itself says that the entry of capital up to 5% provides media pluralism and provides transparency of ownership. This is really inadmissible to give us such arguments, that the amendment is rejected for the reasons why it actually arises to be accepted. Please give us an added explanation. I'm sorry the minister isn't here right now, but this argument and refusal are really contradictory.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7150	Thank you. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) There are no breaks, we have hundreds of amendments, and I see the MPs are getting along as far as the break is concerned. National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No ) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to the 50th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 55th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7151	I am truly sorry that Mr. Minister is not currently in the O.R., but I really think that his associates will tell him that this amendment can, or that this amendment should be adopted, first of all because it is simple and only makes this member of the law more concrete and agrees with himself. Why? Because I propose, by amendment, that the second word "can" be changed in the word "must". Why? Because it's about foreign media representatives and foreign media correspondence. The second view reads: "In order to facilitate the conduct of journalistic work, the foreign media representative and the correspondence of foreign media can be recorded in the records of foreign representatives and correspondence conducted in the Ministry of Public Information, on the basis of which appropriate legislation is issued." It's supposed to be a verb -- they have to be typed in if they want a ID. Three other attitudes, first, third and fourth attitudes, are just that they have to be typed. I can mean they don't have to. It's a very specific difference between the content of that verb. So the legal text should stand – they have to be typed in to get the proper ID. If we say - they can be typed, it means they can get a ID and they can't be typed. They mean these other two attitudes that they just have to be typed and that's exactly what this other attitude is supposed to be. That is why I have submitted this amendment and I think it is very acceptable at this very moment and that the minister can declare himself afterwards, and it is necessary to declare that this amendment is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7152	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No ) National MP Dragomir Karic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7153	I'll just take a minute. I would like to thank you for understanding and accepting this amendment, which is essentially the same as the previous amendment that I have submitted. So, there's only one technical thing that repairs in a member of the law itself, and I thank you for that understanding. That's exactly why I don't see any reason why the previous one wasn't accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7154	Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7155	Thank you. Article 69 speaks of the right of insight and the right to copy and, in its original proposal, the text of the law states: “The issuer is obliged to make the records stored and to provide their copy at the request of the court, the second competent national authority, the regulatory body for the field of electronic media as well as the person concerned, without delay and no later than three days from the date of receipt of the written request.” My colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, and I have submitted an amendment adding Article 2, which reads: “The publisher will not be obliged to make the stored records known, or to provide a copy of the records if he has provided the applicant with an Internet address from which a record can be downloaded free of charge in an unaltered form. ” Simply, we felt that in the era when virtually all information exchanges, as well as all data storage will be on the web 2.0 is already or will be developed, it should be emphasized that we should exempt from the traffic of filing and sending copies and paper and all other carriers of information and records, as far as possible, if there is already an address on the website from which all of what the searcher or any of those defined members of 69 are interested in having. It doesn't change anything important in the law, it simply helps if it's already a means like the Internet and the Web 2.0 there, to be used in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7156	Thank you. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7157	Article 72 speaks of the abuse of the right to insight into the record of the media. We had a dilemma about leaving in the bill the possibility of defining myself to a member of the law abuse of the right to insight. This area is quite slippery and convenient for interpretation and in its original text, Article 72 reads: “The issuer has the right to reject the request for insight and to make copies of the record if the applicant abuses his right, especially if he makes an unreasonable request or if he repeats the request for insight into the same or already received record. ” The biggest accident with this member is that whoever information needs to give, the one who needs to look into the media record, that he appreciates whether the search engine abuses that right. When it comes to law-making, I'm more confident in the part of the human character that you have a ban on some behavior, threatened with some kind of sanctions from the most serious criminal over the offenses to the one perhaps at first sight the easiest, than the condemnation of your unacceptable behavior in the society in which you live. But the fact that everyone by nature will know exactly that when a search engine abuses, I don't want it to stand in any law, whether I vote for it or not. My colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, and I have proposed the amended text of Article 72: “The publisher has the right to reject the request for insight and to make copies of the record if the applicant abuses his right by repeating the request for insight into the same or already received record, or for a record which is freely available in an unaltered form on the Internet address to which the publisher has referred it. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7158	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7159	Thank you, President. I believe that the formulation of Article 72 is extremely correct and generally corresponds to what means protection of interest. But there's one problem and one dilemma. Minister, what if the court shows up as a seeker? For a court of law, we can't say that he abuses someone's right if he asks for information. In that case, we come into one big problem. If the court is searching for the information that is necessary and necessary, especially when it comes to investigations in a public prosecutor's investigation or in criminal cases, given the court's independence and the severity and delicacy of the case, especially where criminal cases are involved, then we cannot identify the applicant in court. Secondly, there is a question about this article when we talk about compensation for damages. It has been said that if the court rejects the proposal for a ban, the publisher has the right to compensation for damage caused by an unfounded ban. The court can't issue an unfounded restraining order. The court decides within the limits of the law. The court respects the law. So in this situation, the question arises – who can decide? Who is above the court who decides whether the ban is established or unfounded? The only one in charge of that is the court. There's no one above him. In this way, we will be in a position to threaten the independence of the judiciary. The SPS Group considers, from a well-intentioned suggestion, that it should consider the practical application of this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7160	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7161	Thank you, Madam President. I must express my satisfaction that this amendment has been accepted. In this amendment, we asked that Article 73 be complemented by protecting, in addition to the human dignity and the reputation and impartiality of the court and other competent state bodies and the independence of these bodies, because the independence of these bodies is an unimpeached constitutional category. It's clear to all of us, and we've talked here so many times about the importance of protecting human dignity, but it's also very important to protect both independence, reputation and impartiality of courts and other state bodies. We know that we have the authority divided into legislative, executive and judicial and each branch of government is independent and must have a certain reputation and dignity and impartiality in the work in order to obtain results. We've also seen very often that in the media they've raised a hack to one of these branches of government. I won't touch the court, and there was that. I shall cite as an example of the legislative authority when journalists are involved in the way they dress MPs in the Assembly, whether they wear open finger sandals, what kind of menu is in the congregation restaurant, and do not deal with the points of the agenda and the problems that plague the citizens. That is why I am pleased that this amendment has been accepted. At the same time, I'm taking the opportunity that the ministers were not there when I spoke about the amendment to Article 39, so I ask you to consult with your advisors, because he was rejected, and from the reasons given in the refusal, it results in acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7162	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic together. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7163	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, Article 74 deals with the publication of information relating to criminal proceedings, and he says – information from a criminal procedure that is under way can be published if made public on the main search, or if it has been obtained, or if it could have been obtained by a public authority under a law governing access to information of public importance. We have added a new position 2 which says - it is forbidden to publish information from the procedures conducted by the competent authorities, which precede the criminal proceedings before the court, which have been obtained in any way other than through public statements, or at conferences for the media of the competent authorities. In the principle debate, we talked a lot about the tabloids racing who'd rather be on the front page accusing someone. They all found, and so did Mr. Michael Davenport, that the data of the girl from the official investigations, and I don't understand why the government wouldn't accept this amendment that seems to be sorting out that part and bringing that particular question into order? Once again, I ask you to consider this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7164	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7165	Thank you. Given that the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend and Miss Dijana Vukomanovic, has already pointed out something that is considered an absolute respect for the presumptions of innocence, then we are in one field of identifying the problem how this problem is solved through system solutions. In any case, it is good that the data that are in the prosecution's investigation or in the investigation process are not covered by this article and that nothing that could interfere with the investigation or investigations should be made public through the means of information, because we have been witnesses both recently and in the earlier time period that the media literally raced over what will appear in the means of information, which these investigations will be undertaken, which will not, which will be carried out, which will not and thus we have come to the field of literally endangering the presumption of innocence. In any case, this should be a good system solution, as soon as any evidence carried out in the process can give rise to suspicion of whether the defendant will have the opportunity to influence witnesses, whether these witnesses will be subjective after communication with the defendant, or in any other way lead him in contact with potential witnesses who can also influence the course of the proceedings. One initiative can be supported here, I can say so freely, that a complete criminal procedure must be protected from publication in any way and that only a judicial decision with a comment should be made public through means of information, and that means that through a judicial decision everything that was in the evidence procedure is verified, because that is when the evidence procedure is concluded. They no longer have any of the institutions of the judicial system, the need to carry out evidence, the prosecutor, or the court. Therefore, the criminal proceedings should indeed be protected in this direction and I think that this should be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7166	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7167	If I may just give an explanation for this article 39. So, it says, by enrolling up to 5% of the ownership, and the proposal is more than 5%. This error is in the typing of arguments. So, with an apology, because if it wasn't for a mistake, they would have accepted that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7168	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 76th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 82nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a bearer, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7169	Thank you, Madam President. We have stated by reason of this amendment that we assume it is a mistake and now that we have received the Government's opinion, it just confirms that, I believe, it is still a mistake, that the government was wrong in interpreting this amendment, as well as in interpreting Article 8. The European Convention on Human Rights to which it is called in this explanation. So, Article 8. The Convention concerns the non-involvement of public authorities in the exercise of rights in respect of respect of private and family life, and this amendment refers to that part, i.e. the position in this article relating to political officials. If it remains as proposed, you are practically narrowing down, or restricting the right to publish information to political officials on those circumstances concerning national security, public security, the economic well-being of the country, etc. So we discussed Article 8 in which we confirmed that, when it comes to political officials, the interpretation of the right to privacy cannot be viewed in the same way as the other citizens, therefore, interprets widely. If it stays this way, believe me, Article 8 of the Convention does not apply only to political officials, it refers to citizens' rights in the most general sense. I'm sure you didn't want to restrict that right here, since we've already discussed Article eight, that it should be laid wide. Pay attention, you have called for Article 8. The Convention does not apply to political officials, concerns citizens, and this attitude applies to political officials, and if you read carefully, we come to the conclusion that data from the private life of political officials will be published only in circumstances concerning national security, economic security, etc., and this is not the case when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7170	You've wasted time and MPs, now you don't have a few seconds. Thank you. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The amendment, which added a new name and a member of 84 after article 84, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7171	I have submitted an amendment adding 84a, which reads - a person whose right or interest is injured by false, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted information, may be required by the one from whom the information originates, the sources of information, that it is as an untrue, incomplete or incorrectly transmitted recall or deny, as it is often called, of the editor responsible to publish. The source of the information may require the editor responsible to publish the denunciation of his untrue, incomplete, or incorrectly transmitted information. The source of the information shall be considered to be the one designated as such. If the source of the information is not indicated, the request referred to in Article 1 cannot be established, it shall be against the editor responsible. The injured may require sources of information, i.e. the responsible editor, to mark the published information as untrue, incomplete or incorrect, to correct or supplement, to declare that it does not have the evidence for the submitted claims, etc. The right to deny or recall was contained in one of the previous versions of the bill. I believe that it is necessary to regulate it with a general legal text on public information and media, and above all it is only recognised but not precisely regulated by the law on bonding relations in Article 199, which in itself opens up the possibility of contradictory application and one of the classic means of legal protection in the field of media law, which would lead to legal uncertainty in the process of achieving and protecting the interests of media lawmakers and natural and legal persons to whom the relevant information is published in the media. We believe that this would greatly contribute to further precision and easier use of the rights that have been transposed into the Law on Bond Relations, we do not understand why the Government is publishing this, and of course I really insist on it as a member of the Democratic Party, which in the previous two years has been on a false pillar of shame over the regime's tabloids, and we believe that the matter would greatly contribute to avoiding such things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7172	The amendment, which was added after article 84, was brought together by new members of 85, by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There's a word, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7173	Thank you. This is practically the same amendment as Mr Stefanovic's amendment. He was proposed by the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, who loves the minister to point out when he runs out of arguments, and then says the association and some others supported certain solutions, but here he did not find it appropriate to accept this amendment with an explanation that the right to appeal is not the matter of the bill. If it wasn't the matter of the bill proposal and our amendment is just introducing in this article, and it's still developing the right to recall, as the public institute, which, as we've heard, existed in some versions of the draft, finally didn't find itself here and we think it would be useful to have this institute that's new, maybe that's why it's not in all European regulations and standards that are foreseen as some minimum. We think that this is one step forward, that we don't have to wait for this to become part of the European standard, and European regulations, and then we introduce it into our legal system, and now that we're passing a new information law, we can also introduce a right to impeachment, which would further regulate Serbia's media scene and help to have as little false and false information as possible, and that citizens are properly and truthfully informed. We find the argument unacceptable, which the government refused to do so, she did not dispute with us at all why this impeachment should not be found as part of the law, and in some earlier versions it was thought that it could still be found. We don't think there's any obstacle to that recalling institute being found in law. By adopting this amendment and later amendments which discuss the publication of recalls in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7174	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7175	The impeachment occurred only in some of the first draft laws and was considered, including the very active involvement of European Commission experts. The view was that it was fully satisfactory, which is in line with European Regulation and standards, and provided for the right to respond and correct information. On the other hand, I have to comment, in no way have I mentioned any journalistic association at times when I lack arguments, because I could also understand that in the absence of your arguments, you are now mentioning one of the press associations, and I have never experienced it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7176	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7177	If we had submitted such an amendment, we would have been accused of being the worst censors. This morning we've been listening to all the tiaras about how censorship, auto-censorship exists in this country or I don't know what it is. This amendment requires censorship of writing and press freedom. With this amendment, you're actually asking that a journalist reveal his source of information to you. It is indeed something that is not appropriate and, of course, violates the basic postulates of freedom of public information and action of every journalist. So this kind of thing is totally unacceptable. Let's just say, dear citizens of all of you who are watching this, this morning we had an entirely single story from the same parliamentary group, and now we have a completely different story and we are asked to accept these things that are truly unacceptable. I repeat, if the SNS had put up with something like this, we'd be accused of being the worst censors, but I understand what you brought here in 2009, I assume you want to continue censorship in the media. I wouldn't want that at all, or anyone from the SNS, and that's why we're not ready to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7178	On behalf of the above member and article 87, the amendment was filed by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Nobody. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7179	Honored presidents, members of the presidency, respected ministers with associates. I have submitted three amendments to Articles 87, 89 and 91. It's about the same terminology, about the campaign. Amendments 1, 2 and 3 have been rejected with an explanation – the amendment is rejected for the reason that the usual terminology in the laws is a pre-election campaign. I'd like you to show me those laws, and I'll quote the laws now. The law on the financing of political activities is precisely said, I am also saying this because I participated in the preparation and voting of these two laws. The election campaign is a set of political entities' activities from election day to election day. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, article 50, says – election campaign. The same is said in Article 100. – election campaign. I don't think this is essential, but I think it would be good to follow the laws and not give arguments that don't comply with the law. If you don't think the amendment should be accepted, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7180	On behalf of the member and member of the 88th Amendment, the MP, Mr Alexander Jerkov, submitted. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7181	I'm the one who asked the minister about the law on pronunciation in terms of terminology.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7182	The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7183	As you said yourself, this doesn't essentially change things, whether it's a pre-election campaign or an election campaign. If that's the only point we've come to some little distraction, there's nothing else I can do but express my great pleasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7184	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7185	Your Honor, I've been quoting the laws. Personally, I think the laws need to be harmonised. There's no pre-election campaign in any law, just an election campaign. If that's what you want, I really don't mind. Personally, I think you might accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7186	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov was submitted to the 91st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which adds the title and members of 91a, 91b, 91v and 91g, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7187	I also don't understand why the government, i.e. The competent minister has not accepted these amendments. It is a precision of things that are not clearly accurate so far and are not thorough enough and directs us exclusively to the Law on Liabilities, Article 199. If you would accept this amendment, we would have clear deadlines to publish the denial, i.e. recalls, the time limit for the appeal for impeachment and the time limit for publication of the appeal on the basis of the judgment. So all of those things that, unfortunately, we also have things that cause the public and individuals who are irresponsible behaviors of people, especially in the regime's tabloids. We ask that this amendment clearly specify the deadlines for how many days, at the latest 60 days from the day of publication of the information, then the editor is obliged to deny, as a source of information, immediately, without delay, in the next issue of publication. That's all that was more or less in our practice, in the media, but as you know, in the last two years, in a rather unregulated atmosphere and the situation couldn't be precise. We therefore suggest that this matter be very precise and that it is known and that when the editor is obliged to publish both when the denials are made public and when it is time for the action to be filed and when it is time for the complaint to be made public in the media which has committed a certain legal breach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7188	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7189	As I was saying, as far as impeachment is concerned, that's what the working groups were talking about, and they only exist somewhere at the very beginning, on the first drafts of the law, but since we didn't accept your amendment, regarding the recall, it would be a little absurd to accept the deadlines. I'm not a lawyer, but I guess that would be legally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7190	Thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 91 by new members 92, 93, 94 and 95, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it would not make sense that, when the minister did not accept the law to enter the right to impeach, these members who define how the law and within which deadlines can be aged would be accepted. What I was about to say once again during a brief debate on this right, which unfortunately will not probably enter, but we will see in the voting day what the final outcome will be, I was absolutely amazed at the claim that this right to impeachment was found in the law, so that the proposer would be accused of imposing censorship. I don't know if, when it's said, it's read what the right to recall is, in which cases it's being realized and how it's being realized. You didn't say that. That's what the discussion here was told. This isn't meant for you, Minister. I didn't want to get involved in the discussion then, but here I am now talking about how the right to appeal was commented on as the introduction of censorship. On the contrary, if this institute were incorporated into this law, there would be greater security and protection and interest of those on whom information was transmitted or on the source of information. We believe that it is a pity that it has not gone one step further from some minimum European practice and standards, and that this whole institution is not entitled to appeal to the Law on Public Information, but I believe that this will happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7192	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7193	You said European recall practice. This law was in Brussels and we didn't get any objections. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is not a practice, but it will be one day. We're passing the law right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7194	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 98 by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7195	We're glad the Ministry accepted the amendment. He's technical. We have proposed that the word “insignificant, ” found in the Bill’s proposal, be replaced by“ so that it does not affect the truthfulness, completeness and accuracy of the information itself. ” I wanted to say this more for the public and other colleagues who may not have been able to read what the essence of this amendment is, but also to point out that all our amendments have been made to this law, since this last one is in the best interest of correcting the draft text. Somewhere the Ministry recognized, and somewhere, unfortunately, it didn't. It was not our intention to engage in any obstruction or to try not to adopt the law here, but rather to improve it, aware of our roles and strengths in this House, but here is some of our knowledge. Sometimes it's recognized, sometimes it's not. We will continue to advocate it, and we will discuss it with other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7196	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 107th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 137th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 142. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the amendment to Article 142. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7197	The amendment we have made concerns media privatisation. In Article 142. We have suggested adding a new attitude to Article 3 of the Law, which reads: “Only those legal persons who have been involved in information activities for at least three years, as well as legal persons who have been founders of natural and legal persons for more than five years, can participate in the privatisation of the media. “ The past privatisation of the media in Serbia was unsuccessful, as in many cases the media bought businesses and individuals who did not have the ultimate goal of the survival of certain media that they bought. These were often bought for reasons of good real estate, etc. Others bought media with the intention of destroying and shutting them down. Often, in privatization of the media, completely unprofessional people were involved, causing numerous privatizations of the media to fail. That's why we suggested that privatisation can be done by those people who have something to do with the media. I just want to say one more thing. You wrote that our amendment is denied due to incompetence. I counted in these amendments that almost a third, half of the amendments were rejected because of irregularities, purpose, integrity, etc. One sentence. I looked in the Serbian dictionary, which was published by the Serbian Matica, which means. I don't understand whether you haven't seen these amendments, whether you've looked at them superficially, because you've used a synonym for that word to be meaningful, incomplete, celebratory, etc. I don't know what to think about. I really looked into the dictionary because you used those three terms to reject the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7198	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic to Article 142. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 142. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 143 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milorad Stosic and MP Blagoja Bradic submitted. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 143. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 145th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on ELECTRONIC MEDIA You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Čapo, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Marko Djurić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Dubravka Filipovski, Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Boris Stefanović, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Đerić, Zlata Đerić, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanić, Saba Dazdarevrević, Enis Imajović, Risa Halimović, Ša Žažalić, Šažalić, Žaožalić, Miranović, Miranović, Mirić, Mirić and Mirić. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Slobodan Homen, written on July 30th 2014, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 9. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, together with the MPs Olena Papuga and Dejan Capo, together with the MPs Aida Ćorović and Jovana Jovanovic, submitted the MPs. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7199	Exactly what the government finds in the explanation that functional and financial independence of regulators has been established in this sentence. The idea of our amendment is, given that it has often happened to find that certain regulatory independent bodies were not sufficiently respected by law. It is our opinion, if the amendment is accepted, that from this passive finding we are improving the norm into an active finding, which implies that the regulator will actively deal with the defence of its independence, as well as that the ban on state authorities to endanger this independence. That doesn't change the point. On the contrary, I think it improves from a passive, neutral finding to an active one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7200	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7201	Mr Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Article 5, talks about the regulatory body for electronic media, and he says that the regulatory body for electronic media, in the following text: the regulator established by this law, is an independent regulatory body, an organisation with the property of a legal person exercising public authority in order to, and states, an effective implementation of a established policy in the field of the provision of media services in the Republic of Serbia, improving the quality and diversity of electronic media, contributing to the preservation and protection of freedom of opinion, expression in order to protect the interests of the public in the fields of electronic media, the protection of users of electronic media services, and in accordance with the provisions of this law, and in a manner appropriate electronic society. The regulator is functionally and financially independent from state authorities and organisations, media service providers and operators. The regulator's headquarters is in Belgrade, and I suggest that the regulator's headquarters be in Kragujevac and explain the following. The adoption of this amendment would be in full agreement with the declared goal of all political parties on the necessity of decentralisation of the country. Since the role of regulators is equally important for all broadcasters, I believe that for geographical and economic reasons, it is most acceptable for the regulator's headquarters to be in Kragujevac. The government has rejected the amendment and the explanation is the following – moving the regulator headquarters from Belgrade to Kragujevac would cost unnecessary costs for the state, but are not clearly useful effects to be achieved. The useful effects achieved by Mr. Minister, which I say to the Government, that everything we have advocated in terms of decentralisation of the state, which means that by decentralisation we are trying to create a political condition for all citizens of Serbia to, in addition to the obligations that we all need to have in this country, the same and equal obligations, to have the same rights and opportunities. I don't see that in the 21st century in the electronics era, the regulator wouldn't be in Kragujevac. It's not much to decentralisation, but it's showing the government's goodwill and intentions to make the next steps, by decentralisation all parts of the state interesting for life in the same way, in the same way and to give all citizens the same opportunities. Since this has been rejected, I am not complaining at all and I accept your decision. It's a matter of politics and it's a political decision. This is the second political issue to be opened with this set of laws. The first is a regional service the government refuses to open, and the second is a refusal to decentralisation. One is a political story and the other is when we need to implement it in law and implement it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7202	The 5th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7203	In my opinion, it is an illogical provision, because if you provide among the authorised promoters the Association of Film, Scene and Drama Arts and the Association of composers in the Republic of Serbia, and indicate that the profile of members of the Council can only be media experts, then the question arises why do you allow art associations promoters to make their proposals? True, there is a provision here -- and so on, but I believe that Mr. Minister who is an artist would not want to be under a provision -- and similarly implies that they can also be people of culture. I think it's very important that in a situation where, first of all, in electronic, but also in printed media, content from culture is almost gone, we insist that artists be members of the regulators, because it may be the only guarantee that they can influence the presence and quality of cultural programs in our electronic media. I think this question is important for culture as well as logical, so I would expect Mr. Minister to accept a amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7204	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7205	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the LSV Group has submitted an amendment to Article 9. It is related to authorised proposings, members of the Council. The government rejected the amendment for the reason that the proposed solution as it states in its reasoning – essentially does not change the said provision of the bill. We wanted certain views on national councils, national communities, churches and religious communities to be added, in addition to them, to the text and the branching, associations of citizens dealing with the protection of the rights of national minorities, as well as the protection and promotion of religious freedoms. We believe that the wallpaper on these issues is not only national councils of national minorities, of course, churches and religious communities, because we think that this amendment allows for a wider participation of the professional public in the work of the Council, especially the civil sector. In this way we think that this raises the level of media freedom and that it is all in line with European values, which are already presented in different ways in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7206	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the committee in charge accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic, and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7207	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, I have counted here that there is a similar amendment, and five amendments, to the same member of the bill, which is Article 14. The formulations are different in language, but the meaning of all amendments is the same. We could place him in the formulation that we offered, Zoran Zivkovic and I. We propose that Article 14 of this bill be changed and that – a member of the council is elected for a period of five years and can be chosen once again. We offer the following argument. As it stands now in this bill of law, I think everyone can only interpret that content in one way, which is that one person, for example, imagine that, can spend his entire working life on the council. We don't think that's right. The second thing, it seems to us, is that there is a time limit for the people sitting in that council, and our proposal is to say, twice a five-year maximum, maybe I could say once, because of course it reduces, this proposal that we offer, the opportunities for corruption. Imagine when someone takes 30 years, 35 years, 40 years in one place, and especially when it comes to this kind of body. There is no independent body within which there is an unlimited possibility of staying in that body, and I believe, gentlemen, that our laws in our country should be general, not biased, and not adapted to the interests of individuals. So please accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7208	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to this amendment, I would like specifically to invite the motionor to take a look at the reasoning he received from the government. The amendment with this content has been adopted, so this restriction we've just heard about has become an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7210	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7211	Only a formulation can be re-elected one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7212	Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7213	I have the right as an independent MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7214	By amendment, then? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7215	By amendment, of course. I'm always talking about the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I have not noticed and admit that our formulation has been accepted through the actual introduction into the draft law of another amendment. I am sorry, I am fully focused on trying to make good arguments about our amendments, and I am very glad that we have accepted the other amendment that they have proposed today, among other MPs, and New Party MPs. This has been an unrecorded case in previous congregation practice, and I think this is very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7216	Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7217	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just depend on what my predecessors said. The LSDV parliamentary group's amendment was essentially the same, only slightly different language formula. I think we've all managed to influence ourselves together, but this is how this thing is implemented as a legal solution, to make it impossible for anyone to be a member of the Board of Regulators for life and only to be limited to two terms. So, I find it essential that this amendment of ours is accepted, even though it's slightly different in language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7218	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ciric. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic jointly submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs of Olena Papuga and Dejan Chapoo together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic jointly submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 23rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7219	Thank you, Chairman. The LSDV parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 23 laying down a proposal for a strategy. We also wanted to respect the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which said in Article 62 that public information relating to the province level, it is envisaged that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities in the field of public information, is adopted in accordance with the law, a development strategy in the field of public information in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in line with the republican strategy in the field of public information. The amendment was rejected for the reasons you stated here, the celery. We think that what is not clearly defined in the legal solution does not have to be applied after that, because we believe it is really necessary to foresee co-operation and regulators and the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina in the field of public information in the preparation of a proposal for a strategy for the development of the media service, in particular what this strategy is brought forward for a period of seven years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7220	Olena, you don't have time. Only one has a point. You've exhausted the group's parliamentary time. Thank you. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Slobodan Homen. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7221	Thank you. Article 34 in the perimeter says "financial plan" and talks about how the regulator is financed, the body dealing with this part of the law. My colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, and I have submitted several amendments to each of these laws, and we have divided here, so that this amendment of mine is independent and it is a matter of attitude: "If the income difference over expenditure is negative, the missing funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment I have submitted says that this position is changed and reads: "If the income difference over expenditure is negative, the missing funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget by deciding in the amendments to the Budget Law for the current year or in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia next year on the position from which the missing funds will be paid." It is hardly possible to not accept this amendment with an explanation that it is understood in this position. Nothing is understood, because this is how we who need to control the budget are written, we don't know who will decide on the payment of the missing funds, the finance minister, the government, and from what positions these missing funds will be paid off from. There is only a basis that if the regulator lacks financial resources, there is a obligation for the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay off the funds. I believe this is an amendment that contributes to the transparency of public funds intended for the regulator in the event of a lack of revenue over expenditure. The second part of this amendment is more linguistic, verbal, and that's why I mentioned Alexander Jerkov, because she's an expert on it. So, say: "Web site" to be replaced by "internet page", but I know it's just as allowed as my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7222	National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Slobodan Homen. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7223	Article 53 speaks of the protection of copyright and related rights and reads: “The regulator makes sure that all media service providers comply with copyright and related rights regulations. ” Given that copyright and related rights are part of one of the important sectoral parts of Serbia's European integration, i.e. that it has defined in other regulations, i.e. what we have associations and organisations dealing with copyright and related rights, therefore, one cross-cutting topic, I felt that it deserves a language extension of this Article 53, and that it should read: "The regulator takes care that all media service providers adhere to copyright and related rights rules, in accordance with the regulations governing copyright and related rights, and when another institution or organisation has the authority to monitor the application of the rules in that area." The basis for the amendment is a cross-sectoral area, and I think it would be good if the Proposer would consider this amendment or try to agree with the committee, or whatever, extend the text of this member of the law, because it would produce problems in application because there would be conflicts of negative jurisdiction over the subject that is very sensitive and will be very, very closely monitored during the monitoring and screening of chapters that define these regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7224	Thank you. Members of the 67th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Karavidic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Goran Bogdanovic together submitted to the 67th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 78th Amendment, in the same text, were brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Slobodan Homen and together by the MPs of Olena Papuga and Dejan Chapo. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 80th Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Komic submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7225	Thank you. Article 80 defines the edge entities which cannot be licensed in the chapter by media service providers on the basis of the licence and its original text: "The holder of the licence cannot be: 1) the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the units of local self-government, 2) a company, an institution or another legal person whose assets are in general or part of public property, i.e. the founder of the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the unit of local self-government, 3) a political party". My amendment adds item 4) which reads as ‘the church and the religious community’, since it is quite logical to exclude both churches and religious communities from the right of the holder according to the same trail, along with those legal persons. I belong to that group of political parties or people who deal with public affairs, that I think it's a good thing that the Law on Churches and Religious Communities arranged this field, that it's a field of human rights and religious freedoms, but that we also have to be careful in the laws that touch this indisputable human right, and I think it should be in this law - and neither the church nor the religious community can be a provider of media service. Let me add, I also belong to those who feel that it is necessary to introduce taxes to churches on services and property, because they deal with the cash that is in the gray zone, so I think that in this sense it should be in equal view of everyone else. Each type of permit would mean a whole series of other regulations that are missing from us and which would probably be a problem, given the different financial status and the different influence of churches and religious communities in us and the official of the traditional church, and that is why it is better to exclude them from the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7226	The word has Dragomir Karic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7227	The Honorable Chairman, I would look back only a little on amendment 80 when it comes to paying religious community taxes. With regard to 1944 and beyond what all religious communities have suffered in Serbia and across this region, paying taxes for them is not good at the moment. Normally, I support that religious communities, not just churches, say religious communities, do not pay taxes, so I would disagree with my colleague, Mrs Comic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7228	Gordana Komic, on what basis? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. ) The word has Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7229	Thank you. So, once again, I am just drawing attention to the amendment's proposal for an explanation that we have received from the government. Secondly, the law in Article 72 specifically regulates the issue. Without a desire to enter into the essence of the amendment's proposal for a particular topic to be settled in a certain way, we have a purely technical question here, so if the amendment were accepted we would be in colluding with another member for which no correction has been proposed. So that's a good reason not to accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7231	You know how, religious freedoms are absolutely something that's guaranteed. Anyone can do what they want about it, and I have to admit that personally as a believing man, I couldn't possibly agree with something like this so that you wouldn't allow churches to have, or be licensed. The sooner you, on any of those media that exist, you can't hear anything ugly, or threaten any, even on the contrary, you have as many people as you want, people who require that kind of spiritual content. I really don't understand why if someone isn't a fan of it, if he's even an atheist, which I certainly appreciate, why don't you respect the other side who's willing to listen to something like that or at the end of the line you can turn the station and have so many other stations. So I don't see why religious communities would deny something like this, because I really personally enjoy listening and doing "The Letter of Love" and so on, and I believe that other confesions like to have their own station, so that something really like this is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7232	Mrs. Comic, you've re-applyed for the replica. I can't believe you don't recognize the replica. Please. All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7233	General, thank you. I truly understand the arguments and the decades-long suffering of churches in one-party societies as well as the need for Mirjan or any group member to be in media, so to speak, to contact those who preach, to spread religion, or who are believing. That's not what I'm saying. I made that clear. The problem is that this law includes the participation of public finances, and that is why I mentioned it. So, we here if we don't say that churches and religious communities can't be licensed on media services, then all those who normally pay taxes on services can't be in the gray economy, and users are entitled to media services, to ask the question of equality. It's a small segment. I do not agree that it is disputed that this article is not adopted in relation to Article 72, since in cases of such procedures, a delay in voting is made and then members who may be in colluding with one another. I am pleased to have a response to the subject, because I believe that there is a need to open a debate in society on the introduction of taxes, VAT, because of the huge amount of cash that goes through churches and religious communities and settle property tax when it comes to churches and religious communities. If most agree that I should not, of course, have no objection, being in the minority does not mean that I will not be right, but that topic is necessary for our society, because it is measurable and because it is a problem for many people who are looking for in fiscal policy that minimum of equality that is meant to be. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, once again at the opportunity to take advantage of the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7234	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7235	You know what, Your Honor, I find this amendment interesting to me, and of course it's good to open up this kind of controversy, but even in that most rigid communist period, it didn't occur to me to introduce taxes to church or church services. You know, party members who stand up for something like this right now would have to face it first if they hadn't charged a variety of tycoon taxes in years, and they want to charge the church now. It's really something that's inappropriate, and I think we should start by not paying people who haven't paid any taxes in 15, 20 years, and they've robbed this country, first their taxes to collect, and then we can only talk about these things that are really very sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7236	You, Mrs. Comic, want a replica. I know it's a little replica, but she's pulling one after another now, and I think it's unnecessary. You can't convince either side. So we don't want any more replicas. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7237	I thank you, I will say very briefly without wanting to shift the focus of the debate to the content of Article 72. I point to it not only because I wanted to show the technical, procedural problem, but also because in this article 72 there is a good basis from which the church and the religious community are actually contained as one of the possible actors who will participate in the media work through the license. We are not in that article right now, so there is no point in further discussing it, but the consequence of the existence of such a member, which I suppose is also the one that we are now talking about in the 80s, had no objection, in which he had no regrets, is that article 80 is not being arranged in the way proposed by the amendment promoter. So that's it and that's why I'm suggesting that we not accept the amendment to Article 80. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7238	Members of the 88th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted to the 92th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7239	This amendment, which refers to part of the text of Article 93, has already been mentioned in the previous article when I spoke about the use of the term in Serbian. Therefore, Article 93 speaks of advertising for public competition and it is perfectly logical to treat advertising for public competition and on the website. It is in the law here, in the bill of law, the term "web site", Cyrillic, which I suggest changes with the "internet site" without insisting that the amendment be accepted and with full awareness that the "Web site" is also allowed and that probably neither the lecturers, nor the language experts would have any problems, but other than I insist that the amendment be accepted, I simply think it is a good idea to have a debate here on the use of English terms translated into Serbian since it will be. There are laws where you have to leave in the original English term for a variety of reasons, for this debate is irrelevant, but there are many, just waiting for the law, where there will be an expression where we, like the one we've had in English, say "paiste", "copy", "tense" and more. So it wouldn't happen to us without any attention just to get it into the law. So the "web site" is of course tolerable, but it is waiting for us, so that it may be discussed whether "internet site", whether "web site", whether in translation, whether with a cartoon or without. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7240	Thank you. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Mirkovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Mr. Alexander Jerkov has submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 110th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic to Article 113. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7241	Thank you. I ask the chairman to acknowledge, that in the argument of this amendment, I must refer to the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the amendment to Article 114 without the intention of speaking against Article 106, but it is simply necessary because of my decision on this amendment. Therefore, the amendment refers to the appointed and elected persons and the 1st position is fine, and in Article 2 of the original text of the Bill of Law reads - Members of the Council who have been elected from the list of candidates who have been proposed by the single authorised proposings referred to in Articles 9 and 7 of this Law, shall be replaced by two members whose term of office ceases, who, on a proposal from the Committee responsible for Culture and Informing the National Assembly, shall be elected at the last election of members of the Council. I had a dilemma and to determine who these people were and to rephrase right, and my solution was to delete Article 113 of Section 2. However, the Committee on Culture and Information also submitted an amendment to that position and did so with an extremely clear text, so that I am withdrawing the amendment and my oral withdrawal, this amendment ceases to be the subject of debate and voting. In this regard, my question is – should then be amended to Article 114, which I said - Members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency continue to work as members of the Board of Regulators until the election of members under this law. If the minister believes that by amending Article 113's position and my amendment to Article 114 is too high, then I will also be prepared to withdraw that amendment, simply to stop being discussed and not vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7242	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Culture and Information submitted an amendment to Article 113(2). At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, a representative of the proposer accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic to Article 114. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7243	This attitude that speaks in the transitional and final provisions on the continuity of the RRA reads – Members of the RRA Council continue to work as members of the Board of Regulators. My amendment is that this part of the sentence remains, so - Members of the RRA Council continue to work as members of the Board of Regulators until the election of members under this law. This would include members who are not elected on the basis of Articles 2 and 113, and of course new members, as they will be subject to the obligations and rules of choice of single legislators under this law when they enter into force. Just please, since we have clarified Article 2's position on who will be and when will be replaced, since I know that of the nine members of the Broadcasting Agency, 2015, 2016 are when the two expires, and one member is unfortunately deceased, Svetozar Stojanović, so that he is second and we have three members of the council chosen in the last selection of the Committee on Culture and Information. Is it clear what's going on with the regulator without my amendment or not? If you think it is, I'm willing to withdraw the amendment so as not to debate and vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7244	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Public Media Services You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Anamarija Vicek, Mirko Čikiriz, Dragomir Karić, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićić, Borislav Stefanović, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Dejan Čapo, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imajović, Riza Halimi, Šaip Kamberi, Vesna Marjanović, Gordana Komić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vjeljinović and Zoran Babić. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7245	If I exceed the time of two minutes, I will use the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Since I long followed the state of the media scene in Serbia and was an active participant of the Kragujeva initiative, and participated in all public debates and debates, I was very happy when the Ministry of Justice adopted a strategy in September to develop a media scene in Serbia. Afterwards, we, active participants, came up with different information that was moving in two directions. The first course was that the media strategy would be changed under interest, under the influence of media interest lobbys, and the second one would remain in force, but would not be applied in legal solutions. That is why I have been preventive for the past few years, asking several questions to the Ministry of Culture and Information, whether a media strategy will be changed and whether media regional centres will be formed. I received assurances in writing that the media strategy will be respected and that citizens in their area through regional public services will be given information of importance to their lives. However, whatever media laws are in basic principles, especially the first two, quite good, regardless of your intention is excellent in all strategic directions, we also support this Government of the Republic of Serbia and your ministry, especially as regards the exit of the state from the ownership structure of the media, transparency of ownership and all other significant principles. What we stand for, that's what this culture ministry has been up for for for a few years, and now it's over. It's for the formation of six regional public media. For what? First of all, not only because of the strategy, but also because of the need of Serbian citizens. The European Commission and a series of European institutions gave a very positive opinion on the media strategy. The proposed text of the law in our opinion should be in spirit with a media strategy and the interest of all citizens of Serbia living outside the territory of the province of Vojvodina, and they are reflected in the receipt of timely and specific information from the area where these citizens live and work, which is covered by frequencies of regional public services, i.e. should be. The proposed amendment is in line with a series of CoE recommendations, as the closeness of the population to local and regional public services is essential. These services should be tailored to the needs and expectations of citizens. Local regional authorities should take advantage of a high degree of decentralisation and capacity for independent actions in providing these services. Decentralisation in the field of public services must be in line with the principles of consistency and unity of public policy application for the benefit of all citizens, coordination and territorial solidarity. It is necessary to develop a brand of public service companies so that the content is easily recognised in the abundance of other media content and services. If the law does not provide for the existence of regional public radio-television services, citizens south of Belgrade would be discriminated against because they would not be in an equal position. As far as the public interest is concerned, in the area of public information at local and regional level, the public interest in information is not smaller in Kragujevac, Vranja, Leskovac, Piroth, Nis, but in Vojvodina. The European Commission has recommended that the media scene should look and recommends that 10 to 15 regional public services in Serbia be in place. European experiences tell us that Austria has nine regional public services, Germany 11, Sweden 19, Great Britain 11, Denmark eight, Norway 11 and regional public services exist in Croatia, Hungary and Bulgaria. The ministry said in its response that this amendment is not accepted because the introduction of regional media services requires significant public funds that cannot be provided at this time. What I'm convinced of, based on an analysis of existing public funds, is that public funds exist but are not well distributed. I therefore ask the following questions: how much money do RTS and RTS whose existence as public service fully support, as a treasure of immeasurable national importance, how much money do they receive from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Then how much does RTS get from the subscription paid by Serbian citizens? How much does RTS generate revenue from other sources? How much money would it take to fund six regional public services? Whether there is a large imbalance in the incomes of employees who work in public service RTS and RTV, because there are also data that suggest that many have over 200,000 dinars of wages, but most do not. Are the average salaries in local and media with regional frequencies much less and how much money will they receive from the tax, how much does the ministry predict that money will be paid when the tax is introduced to three-and-a-half million counts in the Republic of Serbia? Please give me that information, so we can discuss on the basis of the number and see if there are any funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7246	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7247	You're talking about regional media services again, instead of using the right word, which is local television, which is being financed at this point completely from the budget. We need to make a deal on terminology. Nobody here shuts down public services, or regional services, and you keep talking about it. I say again, it's perfectly legitimate that you think the state should withdraw from the ownership structure of all the media and then seek an exception for six, seven, nine or 13 cities. It's your right. But compared to Austria, Germany, Sweden, at this point compared to their GDP, I don't think it's really to the end rational.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7248	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7249	Dear Presidents, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say that the SNS cannot support an amendment submitted to the First Article of the Law on Public Media Services, which is required to form and cover the work of six regional public media services. I wanted to give an explanation, but the esteemed minister has already responded somewhat. This law first and foremost regulates the work of public media services, i.e. RTS and RTS institutions, i.e. the Republic and rural public media services. So, the subject matter of this law is not regional public services, not because the SNS does not support their formation and, as the minister has already said, they exist as a way to provide better and timely information to the regional level, but because the current situation in the republican budget does not allow this to be officially and provided in a larger number. It should be noted that this is how the formation of six regional media services requires more definitely financial resources. According to the RRA, there are currently 48 regional radio stations and 30 regional television stations, mostly carrying out their task. I come from the Zlatibor County and we're from the interior, I can praise all the radio and television stations with the regional frequency, that they really do at the highest level informing the public and in our midst. This is why it is precisely aiding regional frequencies or these media with regional frequencies and their work that is of great importance in terms of informing local environments. We are sure that the public and journalists will understand why we reject this amendment and why we cannot accept it, but we are certainly seeking to decentralise the media space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7250	The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7251	I also answered during the amendment to the past law, but we talked the same about public services, so I'd just like to re-complete my colleague, Chiquiriz. It is impossible to have six regional public services that have never existed before, not 24. It wouldn't be right for the other districts. I just wanted to add to what the minister said a little while ago, it's very unfortunate to share the subscription, i.e. The tax, that cable operators at all regulate it with RTS because not all Serbian citizens are not cabled throughout Serbia, 67% of Serbia is cabled, 33% is not, so they would literally share citizens with cable and those with no cable and who watch RTS from the ether. The only logical solution is what the government has brought. I agree with the minister when he said earlier about the GDP between the Scandinavian countries and us, that it is a little bit in proportion, so it is simply impossible to have both public services and this number of local media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7252	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7253	Dear President, Your Honor, I'd like to speak to a dear colleague. You're kind of right, but you're mixing things up again. So we should define what a regional and public centre is. I'll give you an example of France. In northern France, the center of the region is Lil. There's a regional television center in the city of Lil. However, the regional television centre belongs to French national television. So, this regional television centre broadcasts every day a 24-hour programme for its region. That's what you want us to have, right? Every day between 12 and 12.30 p.m., it involves the national network of French television. The regional public centre in Lil is funded by state-run French television. The tax or subscription in France is 120 euros a year and must be paid when taxes are paid. French national television has five channels of its own. Free. What does that mean? If we assume that Nis should have its regional centre, the moment we have a strong public service that can financially support it, and the moment the tax is introduced in 2016, public service or RTS, which has its own correspondence, studio in Nis, is that right, in Kragujevac...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7254	Ambassador, speak to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7255	... So it's RTS who's going to have to do their own internal organization to build a simple regional public centre in Kragujevac or Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7256	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. You have four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7257	Thank you, Chairman. That'll do. Minister, I've asked specific questions about the money. I didn't get one answer at all, but I'll give it to you. By budgeting this year, RTS gets six billion dinars for its operation, plus it has money from subscription and commercial services. It is just over 52m euros and has 5,200 employees. Vojvodina's radio-television receives a billion and 678m, or almost 15m euros, and has 1,450 employees. Now listen to me well. Only 3% of it, i.e. about two million and 200 000 euros, is enough to finance the existence of six regional public services that would have up to 50 employees, i.e. 300 in total. On the one hand, we have 6,650 employees and 66 million and 756,000 euros, and on the other hand, with only two million and 200,000 euros. We can finance the existence of six regional public services. I don't see why it's not done. On the other hand, when in a year and a half, when all Serbian citizens are required to pay a tax, which will be at a maximum of 500 dinars, to three and a half million counts in Serbia, assuming that they are all paying, that would be at an annual level of one billion and 750m euros. We know the charging won't be that way. Make it 50%, that's almost 900m euros, and yet just two million and 200,000 euros, about, I'm talking about based on some parameters that exist on our media scene right now, is enough for six regional public services. That's why there will only be money, and therefore the argument that there is no money for the establishment of six regional public services does not stand at all. Another correction. I never talked about local public services today. I know exactly what I'm talking about. I haven't even talked about regional frequencies. I have not interfered with the status of regions and districts, as many colleagues do. I'd like to ask, Minister, to speak with the language of numbers. Look at the population south of the Danube. Over four million Serbian citizens. They'll give RTS a subscription. They ask 3% of them to return to them to have their regional public services that will deal with informing about their topics, of the importance of their lives. This bill says you can't. You can't, citizens, get 3% of what you give Serbia. I don't want to go to the other side and talk about how many employees make on RTS and on TV, because I don't want the topic going that way, and I don't think it's relevant. If you think it's okay for a manager to have twice as much salary as you and the MPs and to have a higher salary than the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to do a more socially significant job, more responsible, etc., I leave it to you for an assessment, but I disagree with her. What I believe is based on these amounts that I said the money has, that the money has not been allocated in spirit with my party's policy on decentralisation of Serbia, the media, financial, institutional, contrary to your position on centralisation of Serbia, I express my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7258	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7259	Thank you. In line with the general belief of DS and professional associations that have sent us amendments, we also believe, and this amendment is in that spirit, that it is essential to change Article 2 and that it should read: "The public media service referred to in Article 1 concerning which a colleague spoke is a republican, regional and regional public media services" and after Article 4, a new position 5 is added, which reads, "The regional public media services are public media institutions". So I repeat again, not the state, but the public media institution. Of course, this is in line with the Media Strategy and based on Article 45(1). The Government Act, the Government adopted the Strategy by 2016, in Part 3 of the programme function, literally stands – public service obligations and functions remain at the republican, regional and regional level. We believe that this would be, as we have heard before quite picturesquely and thoroughly shown and from the financial aspect, feasible and we believe that there is no way of regulating the market on the one hand to get the information. On the other hand, the inequality established by the existence of only two public services, one central and one duchy, with these south of Sava and Danube definitely being discriminated against and the least problem is regionally setting up public services, not 26, but much less, it would again be such information and what kind of possibility that things could continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7260	National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7261	The Honorable Chairman, I could accept this if there was a situation left that we would continue to assign frequencies, but we are going to the era of digitization. In the era of digitization, something like this is excessive, pointless, and there's no need for this kind of thing, because the program can be regulated however you want, given that digital television is. When someone suggests such things, then the basic question is who will pay for these public media services? You can see that it goes very hard with a subscription to simply take away from the citizens what is defined by law. You tell the citizens. I don't mind if, for example, regional media services, say, the Goldibor County, and then tell the citizens and Užica and Aryl, and who already falls, for example, that they will have to pay for that service from their own pocket, because it simply doesn't finance from the budget, it's funded by the citizens. If that's what citizens want, that's fine, but I don't think anyone's interested in it, especially when it comes to the era of digitization. What we need to figure out when we're talking about tv, so it's AP television, which is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as such a territorial continent. We don't have the Constitution defined regions. We have districts as administrative units, but they don't have anywhere near that kind of intelligence as there are provinces, so we can't even agree on that. That's why it's a good thing that we only have two public services, and for this rest, you know, if you really think that in the era of digital television it's necessary to have a regional service in each region, tell the citizens that they have to pay for it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7262	Thank you. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7263	Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not talk about the work I have proposed, which the Government has rejected. That is enough said by Mr Stefanovic and Mr Chikiriz. So it's the same subject, same amendment, same article. Only to the citizens of Serbia living in Šumadia, eastern, western and southern Serbia will I convince and clarify what has just been, for the last ten minutes, the topic discussed in this room. In the middle of next year, with a set of laws that are now being adopted, we will privatise, i.e. to get the state out of ownership, read between the ranks, the local self-government of all the local media that they founded. So, they'll be in the tender and they'll be privatized, so the local media won't exist this way anymore, that they'll be privatized and that they won't be financed by local self-government anymore. That's what the set of these laws says. The set of these laws says that the subscription will stop paying for the adoption of these laws and that everything that has cost Serbian Radio Television, both electronic programmes and three radio programmes, as well as two Vojvodina Radio TV programmes and three Vojvodina Radio Programmes, will be financed from the budget and that is what counterpart Chikiriz said. That's about 7.5 billion from the budget, and then they'll keep paying a fee now called a subscription, then it'll be a tax, and we'll all be paying 500 dinars for public service. Public service in the Republic of Serbia has been working on Serbian television, which covers the entire territory and is paid by those 500 dinars. Public service is also the Vojvodina Radio Television with its two television programs and three radios, which will be paid from the same 500 dinars. We ask that the public service, which is financed from the subscription, be of the 500 dinars in Shumadia, be in eastern, western and southern Serbia. My colleagues say it's not justified and it's not necessary. I think our MP group, and I see colleagues who discussed it, that it's politically bad, that we're making citizens of first and second order. Those living in Šumadia, eastern and western Serbia will pay the subscription and will not have the same rights, public information, quantities of public information and types of public information, because it is impossible to do and do time. We already see what it looks like, as Belgrade and Vojvodina will. That's the basic problem we're discussing right now. I think it's harmful and we're opening up a big political problem without need. Without need, we are making citizens of the first and second order and I think that the minister will vote for this amendment until the end of this debate, as well as the MPs living in Šumadia, eastern, western and southern Serbia and give their fellow citizens the right to have the same right as the citizens of Belgrade and Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7264	The 6th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7265	The Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, this amendment under number 6 refers to the public media service, i.e. the public media service relationship to the public. We have here submitted an amendment, relating to item 2, indent 5, that is, that the report on the work, which public media service is to be submitted to the National Assembly and to the Board of Regulators, we have proposed that the report be submitted to the APV Assembly as well, referring to the provisions of Article 62. The Law laying down the competence of the AP Vojvodina to establish that the APV, through its bodies in the field of public information, determines the public interest of the people of Vojvodina in the field of information, broadcasting, adopts a strategy in accordance with the Republic Strategy, provides for part of the funds or other conditions for the operation of public ballots in minority languages, establishes co-operation at regional level, etc. So, what the powers of this law are defined, when it comes to information on the territory of the Vojvodina and the proposed amendment, that the Radio Television Report of Vojvodina is also delivered to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, it is possible to achieve this Article 62. Law establishing the jurisdiction and authority of the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected with the conclusion that the bill was given more cellulently, whatever that means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7266	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Before I give my word to Riza Halimi, the word has been given by MP Dejan Radenkovic after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7267	Your Honor, I've tried talking to you, and I've imposed myself on this subject... I'm referring to Article 27. As President of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7268	I apologize when the conversation was, I don't know. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7269	Article 27. Let me explain what this is about. I'm asking that we be provided with normal working conditions. Only now do I understand former colleague Jorgenko Tabakovic, who has often complained that she is constantly blowing on her here as if we were in the Himalayas. I don't want Serbian citizens to get me wrong, but half my colleagues are here and they're cold and they're in pain and we all have problems. So somebody take some action, this isn't humane, if you're capable of anything. If you're not, it's okay. We will endure, stoically, how much we are able to do in these conditions. This isn't humane. I speak for many colleagues who do not have the courage to say. Please, as President of the Assembly, do something about it. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7270	I'll be honest, I can't do anything. In some parts of the hall, it is not cooling at all, and I don't think the citizens of Serbia would understand this well. If you think that I have broken some part of the Rules of Procedure, which applies to the technical conditions of work, we will be very happy to vote. I recommend colleagues who have a problem moving and moving to some front parts of the gym. There's no air in here, so we're running a session. Do you want to vote on it? No, I don't. I thank you very much. I really can't do anything about it. The word has the People's MP Riza Halimi, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7271	So our amendment to Article 8(1) is about the same content as the amendment submitted by the second parliamentary group. It's the same nature, and it concerns these differences in formulation, when it comes to standards, respect for language and speech standards. When it comes to standards in minority language, they are limited spatially, and is said in an area in which the programme is broadcast or in an appropriate proportion, quantitatively. In principle, I was talking about this problem. Quality is either respected or implemented or not implemented. When it comes to minority languages, you can't limit it to space and to quantity. That doesn't make sense. Since we didn't get an answer in your report, I'm guessing the same answer is the same as our colleagues' amendments. I think the word "cellistic" was used, that the solution in the law was "cellulistic". I really don't see what's more celery about it. As far as their speech is concerned, standards cannot be fully implemented and respected, but in my view, the artificial term of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, where it is said that in municipalities where minorities make up the majority and where they have provided for official use, can then use both language and letter. But I don't see why that's even when it comes to speech standards. That's absolutely unclear to me, and based on that answer you've given, it's even more vague. It's absolutely not clear why it's more cellular or meaningful. In point 6, we suggested that what I had already talked about was the problem that was expected after these radical changes in media laws, that information in minority language would seriously be compromised and that, in all likelihood, what was more secure and therefore the state reserved, preserved the right to have its own public service, then why is this not provided for information in the language of minorities outside Vojvodina? Now I'm talking about the space outside of Vojvodina, because the practice of this year is different. If there is already this public service for Vojvodina, and in other parts there is no, then why not provide for more serious and quality information to be provided by the minority information desks in the language. I really don't understand why that was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7272	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7273	Thank you, President. We have also responded by amendment to this sentence – in the appropriate proportion of national minorities in the areas in which the programme is being broadcast. The simple use of the language and letters of national minorities is regulated by a special law, and the words are appropriate in proportion to the appropriate proportion, and there is no indication of the proportion and how this is determined. I'd like to ask you, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has given 11 amendments, you've answered seven amendments with the word - celebular, and here you've responded - celebular. So, with one sentence of 11 amendments in seven, you've answered us that it's more celery or that it's more cellulent by law. Now explain in this amendment - the amendment is not accepted, because the solution is contained in the bill more comprehensively. You've answered us seven times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7274	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7275	I have to answer your question. I'll tell you a secret. So, the minister does not personally respond to all the 268 amendments, and the word celery means that we simply feel that our proposal for this member has already fully regulated the issue sufficiently clearly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7276	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamanovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7277	Thank you, Madam President. It is here, in my opinion, that the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which, in my opinion, has been unjustly given in response to the Government and the Committee that our amendment is not accepted because the solution was offered by the bill and is in the spirit of the law. I ask the question – Article 9 is said to be – the public media service is obliged to use Serbian language, Cyrillic letter and sign language as a form of communication between deaf and deaf people in the programmes. There are no languages and letters of national minorities anywhere. There's probably an expert in this area. Please explain to me, what has to do with the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, where absolutely no languages and letters of national minorities are mentioned? If you think attitude 2 is giving an answer to my question, I don't think it's absolutely serious, because there's only an indirect, not a decadent quote of the law. It says – the use of Serbian language is not mandatory in the programme for members of national minorities, but these programs can be titled in Serbian. If this means the implementation of the Constitution and the law, I'd really like to hear from the experts if it stands. I am firmly convinced that there is absolutely no respect for the Constitution or the law. The title depends on economics, depends on interest, if something is really interesting in minority languages, it can, which is not, be interpreted and that all our citizens can also follow it in their own language. But of course, there's not always such an interest. However, the interpretation is also based on this wording that you have indirectly made known that there will be a minority language programme not to be implemented directly by the Constitution and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7278	Thank you. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7279	Since RTS and RTS are legal entities, this amendment suggests that regional public services also have legal personality status. A little while ago, a colleague from SNS had a very nice talk about French experiences, and it's all true. Namely, what are the best European experiences? Regional public services operate somewhere within national public services, and somewhere they exist as independent legal entities. With this amendment, I'm not offering any other solution, I'm just asking them to be what RTS and RTS are. On the other hand, as regards funding, European solutions are to finance public services from the budget, from commercial services or from competitions for certain projects or by combining these three methods. So, in previous laws, you've provided for all these forms of funding, which is good. Now I'm just asking, since there's enough money for regional and public services now, and with a tax it's only going to be, that we simply accept the request over four million citizens south of Belgrade and that again, the citizens of Vojvodina would not get the wrong idea, no special benefit from RTV with regard to information of local importance will be given to the Vojvodina, because simply there are 44 municipalities in the Vojvodina territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7280	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7281	We have brought to the Assembly a draft law on public media services that defines two public media services, one is RTS and the other is RTTV. You keep talking about regional services that are in no way considered in this bill. I fully understood what your idea is, but here we give suggestions and solutions to the functioning of two media public services.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7282	Thank you, Minister. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7283	Thank you, Madam President. Article 13 adds a new position 3 which reads – regional public services produce and perform audio, i.e. audio-visual media content on at least six television and six radio programmes on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The 4th position is also changed – RTS, RTV and regional public services products and publish media content as an electronic edition on the Internet. Position 4 so far becomes item 5. We continue to believe that this bill is contrary to the media strategy and what colleagues were talking about, the adoption of this amendment would reduce the discrimination of Serbian citizens south of Sava and Danube, i.e. south of Belgrade that would not be in an equal position. Minister, you know very well, or should you know, that when you come to the National Assembly and the MPs propose amendments or amendments to the law, we are now creating a law. The fact that you in the government have imagined and think it is irrelevant what we are telling you, which you in the beginning disagree with, speaks or do not understand the nature and purpose of the National Assembly, or think it is irrelevant, because in the beginning you do not accept it, that we do not talk about it. It's up to us to try, and it's up to you to refuse, as you do all the time, but don't tell us then—you know, we're starting against it, so what do you explain to us? We have to try to do this. No matter what you're a minister, we respect you personally, you understand, but you are now a representative of the government that has brought its court to these changes, but don't think about the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7284	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7285	We don't think of a process in any way. I think you could see that by the amendments that were adopted. Here we simply face opinions and a view of what the possibilities are at this point and what is most complete. I know that's not my favorite word, from the explanation, but here I am.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7286	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7287	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 13, which speaks of public service and which are public services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, gave the amendment that despite RTS and RTTV and regional public services products and publish media content as an electronic edition on the Internet and that they are a public service. One of the reasons I got when I refused is that tv has to exist because it's acquired right, and I'm voting for it to exist, because public service can't perform the same quality in the territory of the entire Republic. That's why it's good that Vojvodina has a TV with one TV channel and three radio channels. That is what I am asking, because of this quality of public thought, information and public service, and for Shumadi, eastern, western and southern Serbia, but one of the arguments was – because there are many national minorities in Vojvodina and they have their own editorials that satisfy their constitutional rights guaranteed as a national minority. Then I ask, by shutting down local television, by shutting down public services that were in the position of local self-government without the existence of a regional service, what are we going to do with national minorities south of Sava and Danube, what are we going to do with Vlassi, Bulgarians, Albanians, what are we going to do with their rights? Where will they please theirs? According to Minister Tasovac, it should be in RTS. So RTS will open the newsrooms for all national minorities, and then not allow regional services to exist for 4.5 million Serbian citizens under Sava and Danube, who are regularly paying and fulfilling their obligation to subscribe. That's a little illogical. I ask you once again, Minister, you have the opportunity to make a proposal, and I appeal to my fellow MPs, because by voting and accepting the amendments, it becomes a law, to accept these amendments and allow the citizens of Serbia and Šumadija, eastern, western and southern Serbia to have the same rights as they have to do with the rest of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7288	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7289	In Article 13. The bill confirms the state of play and I fully support it, RTS should broadcast two TV programs of national importance, which I fully support, three radio programs, I fully support, TV two televisions, three radio programs also, fully support. I ask the amendment to add a new position that says that each RJS is primarily south of Belgrade, but also for the needs of Vojvodina, provides media services with at least one television and one radio programme in the region for which it has appropriate TV and radio broadcasting permits and to add another position that it says – RJS provides media services as an electronic edition of the internet. You ministers tell us that we keep talking about RJS that don't exist. Well, that's why we're saying they don't exist, that they exist. That's why we're talking about there's no south of the Danube, that this is the need of citizens south of the Danube who pay for the other two public service subscriptions. He'll pay his fee, and he won't have his RJS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7290	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7291	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In Article 15, I propose that the Board of Regulators take a decision on the conditions to be met in the competition by interested radio-television services for obtaining RJS status, to discuss competitions for obtaining RJS status, to choose the best bidder, to grant RJS the right to provide media services after obtaining the appropriate permission to provide media services in accordance with the law governing the field of electronic media. This is the key thing about remarks today that we're being followed by digitization, etc. As an MP from Kragujevac and Šumadija, I don't mind that if the seat of one RJS is in Kragujevac, that RTS and RTS get the right to be in Kragujevac RJS, means I don't force any other TV, no other TV or radio station, I'm just interested in having a television that will regularly report to us everything that matters to people's lives, citizens in that region. That is why, Minister, we will probably also talk about the other amendments, so regional public services are not shut down because they are not intended to exist, and I am asking that what you predicted in the media strategy be in the law, that we accept it all and that we all vote for it and that indeed this set of media laws in the final form gets its best form for the general benefit of all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7292	On Article 17 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Hope Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7293	The President-in-Office, the Honored Minister, Article 19 refers to the work of the Management Board of the Public Media Service and, among other things, to the adoption of a report on the work and operation of a public media service to be delivered to the National Assembly and to the Board of Regulators and to the public. Our intervention on this amendment was to deliver this report to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the provisions of Article 62. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, given that, as I have already instructed in one of the previous amendments, when we also insisted on reporting that this report be submitted to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, it is fulfilling its powers in the field of information and I see no reason why the ministry has refused again with the famous formulation that a more comprehensive proposal has been made in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7294	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Eliva Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Laszlo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7295	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we spoke in detail about the importance of media laws for national communities in the debate in principle. The media area is certainly one of the most important areas for the preservation of the identity of minority communities. For this reason, it is also extremely important to bring together a set of media laws with the National Councils of National Minorities, i.e. with the competences or powers of national councils in the field of notification. It is of paramount importance for us at present or present, as well as in the future, to avoid any conflict or possibility for different interpretations on the one hand of the Law on National Councils, and on the other, laws governing the field of media, education, official use of language or culture. For this reason, respect for a decision by the Constitutional Court of January of this year is also extremely important. The Constitutional Court assessed the agreement, i.e. the disagreement of certain provisions of the Law on National Councils of National Minorities with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Among others, the Constitutional Court has assessed certain provisions of the law relating to the powers of national councils in the field of media. The Constitutional Court has dealt with all the competences of national councils in the field of media. Therefore, with competences relating to public media services, and on the one hand in the power-related work, it assessed the constitutionality of the powers relating to the competence of national councils in the procedure of the appointment of management committees, programme councils and directors, or responsible editors of public media services. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court also assessed the competences of national councils relating to the possibility of affecting the work of public media services. In that decision, the Constitutional Court found that certain provisions of the Law on National Councils do not comply with the Constitution, and above all with provisions relating to the possibility of national councils to influence the selection or appointment of members of the Management Boards, Programme Committees and Directors-General of Public Media Services and in part to the procedure for the appointment of responsible editors of the programme in the languages of national minorities. On the other hand, in one part, the Constitutional Court found that part of the authorisation of national councils relating to the appointment of responsible editors of the programme in the languages of national minorities is in accordance with the Constitution. As I noted, the Constitutional Court also appreciated the constitutionality of provisions that regulate the possibility of the influence of national councils on the work of public media services. The Constitutional Court has estimated that these provisions are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment concerns part of the power of national councils in the process of appointing responsible programme editors in the languages of national minorities at media services. This power of the National Councils Act provides for. The Constitutional Court has established the constitutionality of this power, and the adoption of this amendment will establish a procedure in which national councils will be able to exercise this authority. Therefore, this amendment sets out the obligation of the Director of Public Media Services to obtain an opinion before the proposal to appoint responsible programme editors in the languages of national minorities from national councils. This will establish a procedure for respecting one of the rights arising from the National Councils Act. I would like to use this opportunity, indeed briefly, to draw attention to the other part of the authority of national councils they have in relation to public media services, which will not be regulated by this law, but it is regulated quite incorrectly by the Law on National Councils and I hope that it will also be regulated by the new law on national councils, which is part of the authority relating to the work of public media services. This law creates, to our satisfaction, the possibility of national councils being influenced by the work of public media services, in Article 4 paragraph 4 of this Law, when the legislator will determine that the ban on only illegal influence exists in relation to public media services. In the Law on National Councils there will also be legal influence, i.e. the possibility of legal influence on the work of public media services. Our expectation is, I would like to say this to the public representatives of the ministry, Mr Minister and the representatives of the ministry, when we are working on a new law on national minority councils, we will certainly insist on this second part of the power of national councils in relation to public media services, since that is what I and the president of our parliamentary group have said in detail, the Constitutional Court has also found that they too have powers to influence the work of public media services by national councils in accordance with the Constitution. Of course, I want this opportunity to thank you for accepting this amendment. In this way, we have solved an important aspect of the right of minority communities in the field of communication in relation to public media services. The other part remains that we hope to solve together when we pass a new law on national councils or amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7296	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, your time is running out. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 25th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7297	The amendment to article 25 of the bill I have submitted says that the number ten is changing by number five, concerns the years of experience of candidates for the office of director. I think this amendment has given us a wider possibility that a greater number of professional, young people should report and compete, that by limiting to 10 years of experience, as required by law, we minimise the potential number of quality candidates not to slow down the quality of those who have ten years of working experience. They're going to compete anyway, but I think this amendment would give young professional people a chance to say something about this area, so they can compete. That was the only reason. No, in order for unprofessional and under-realized people to compete, but also for young people who have a lot of quality and expertise to give them a chance to compete, and for those who have 10, 15 years of working experience with these characteristics, they will compete anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7298	Thank you. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7299	Thank you, President. I find it really unacceptable that the selection of RTS programming board, TV, is done in the way it is now foreseen. There was still a different procedure under the current law. These changes have led to a change, first of all, in so much that there are no more MPs in the composition of the Programme Committee, which I think is acceptable, but what I consider to be in the extreme line of unusual and unacceptable, and after the Government's opinion I am truly surprised, which is that for the first time, the National Assembly is in the role of the promoter, that the election function is carried out by the Management Board of a public institution, in this case by public service. So, if the Assembly has an electoral post as a carrier of sovereignty, it elects the government, elects judges, elects prosecutors, and cannot elect members of the Programme Committee, and the government's explanation is that it would affect their independence. Well, there's no greater guarantee of independence than when you're elected by the Assembly. So, the Management Board will be able to replace members of the Programme Committee whenever it wants. I guess they should be on their own right now on public service management. So, I'd like to ask, I'm surprised the Constitutional Committee accepts this, but I'd like to ask the Proposer to explain that logic to us. I expected a different explanation for one, for reasons of efficiency or something else, but the independence of the members of the Programme Committee is now much more questionable than to be chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7300	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7301	When choosing, therefore, the Management Board is also responsible for the quality of the programme. Here we could get into a situation where, on the purely professional side, the Assembly becomes responsible for the quality of one of the public service programs. Here to see clearly where the responsibility is, so that was the basic reason. I don't know if I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7302	The word is made by MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7303	No, I still don't understand it, because the Programme Council is scheduled to give an independent opinion on the quality of RTS or RTS. In this case, we will have a board of directors who will impose their opinion on the Programme Committee. So, you may not have personally, I know that you haven't written an explanation, but the government has given as an explanation that the reason for this is to ensure their independence. I mean, they're absolutely not going to be on their own like this. I just don't think it's known in practice, I'm telling you, the Assembly isn't responsible for judges' judgments, and we choose judges. So it is unacceptable for me that the Assembly can choose judges, you as ministers, and the Programme Committee cannot thus guarantee their independence that they can independently decide on the RTS programme and give one opinion that would improve the programme. They're about to upgrade what the RTS authorities suggest. You know, we also choose the Protector of Citizens. So I really don't see the logic there.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7304	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7305	Just to clarify, therefore, the National Assembly is proposing 30 people, 30 candidates for members of the Programme Council, and then the Governing Board, meaning, of these 30 elections 15. Only if it is not a problem, so – the committee responsible proposes to the Governing Board a list of 30 candidates for members of the Programme Council that reflects the territorial, national, religious, gender and other structure of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7306	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7307	I must comment on this minister's argument. As he explained, I don't see the need for a program council at all, it can be done by an editorial college of public institutions. So, the Programme Council should be independent of the Governing Board so that it can perform the role provided for by law in its full capacity. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to accept this amendment in order to ensure independence in the work of the Programme Council. Otherwise, there's really no need to exist at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7308	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7309	Thank you, Madam President. So, there really isn't, I mean, even in our legal system, it's impossible for the Assembly, for Parliament to propose to anyone, and especially to the administrative bodies of public institutions or any other institution. I think if we accept this solution that we, as Parliament, kind of degrade ourselves. We're degraded the very institution of the Programme Committee. Mr. Djurisic said exactly, then there is no need for it to exist because then the Management Board can decide what the programme will look like. The essence of the Programme Committee is to be independent of the management bodies of television, and the election in the Assembly provides them with more independence than any other choice. So it is amazing that the Assembly should be a proposing and that the Governing Board should have an election function. It really doesn't exist anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7310	The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7311	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, as regards this amendment and fellow Members who have submitted the amendment, I absolutely support the Minister and Ministry in this proposal for the Assembly to elect 30 members who will propose to the Management Board for the Programme Council and to be people who are waved from the profession and who know what television is. So absolute support and we're going in the right direction as far as it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7312	Thank you. On Article 29 of the amendment, together with the corrections, the MPs of the People's Republic of Slovenia have submitted Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shajip Kamberi. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Here you go. I don't know if you don't sign up. You have to sign in. I don't know if anyone's gonna sign up or not. We're going back, of course, so we don't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7313	All right. We had an amendment to Article 29. The bill and, of course, this is about how members of the council are proposed, and to enable national minority councils to make proposals in this issue. Under the whole of this issue, media laws on opportunities to involve national minorities more actively in achieving the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights. I think it's quite right to allow what's required by this amendment, that's the essence, but unfortunately, the government has rejected it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7314	Thank you. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7315	Thank you, Chairman. If the ministry had done what it predicted in its media development strategy in Serbia, we would have regional public services, and they should have all the organs necessary for their functioning. In this amendment, I have proposed that members of the programme council of the regional public service be elected by the Management Board of the Regional Public Service. Only because of the citizens of Serbia will I say, of course, when obtaining permission to work a certain public service it is clear which contents of this television or radio station should be broadcast, from cultural content, sports, serious social topics, weather forecasts, etc. But since I have suggested that members of the Regional Public Service Management Board as an analogue solution that exists for members of the RT Vojvodina Management Board should have a place in the territory of the area of coverage of regional public service, they should also, as experts in their fields, develop in those free terms a programme that would be very interesting to citizens from that territory, such as a good show that is also seen outside of the forest, "The Forest threshold", broadcast by Kragujevac TV, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7316	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and dr. Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7317	I think we should wait for the minister, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7318	We don't have to do business, really. This is the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7319	Okay. The essence of this amendment with the text – deleted, is to exclude the fee for paying TV subscription as a way to finance public services. Here's the minister. Why are we looking for this? Not only was it a pre-election promise, but it was also for the sake of integrity, which is today a popular word. I think it's completely unnecessary to introduce a new tax, and the tax is a kind of tax, on something that, with an explanation, guarantees the independence of public services. This does not guarantee public service independence. The judiciary is financed from the budget directly, so that does not mean it is not independent, or unless it is independent, funding is hardly the reason for lack of independence. Therefore, we had long periods of time in modern Serbian history, when public services were financed directly from the budget. I mention, again, in 2001, in 2004, without any influence or with very little influence, there is always some influence by the authorities on the independence of these media and we all agree that it was some golden time of public service independence. Other sources of funding, and above all, funding from the budget is quite enough to get the funding to be sufficient. Second, a tax that is 50 euros a year, times 3.3 million electricians. That's 165m euros. I've consulted with people who know that, that to finance both public services is enough than 80 million. Then what's with the 85 more? I've got 10 more amendments on the subject, so I'm going to make a further argument to continue on the subject. I don't think there's any reason to get into that trap that it's some kind of EU custom, it's true there's a tax as a solution, but there are countries where it's not there. The government is responsible for the media being independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7320	Thank you. You ran out of seconds, too, while I was still talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7321	You mean this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7322	Two minutes and plus the 15 seconds you've had and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7323	Expired for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7324	Absolutely, we all understood each other. I know you do. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7325	Otherwise, I highly appreciate people saying that during the "Sabbe" campaign, it was a golden period of our journalism. This is what all the journalists felt on their skin, especially those who were in prison for God’s justice. Let's tell the citizens something. The product of a subscription that would not have been invented by the SNS by now, has been invented by someone before. We see how far he got the citizens that I'm RTS that people didn't want to pay for it. Dear citizens, we have no reason to deceive anyone here. There are three ways, related to RTS. One of them was this subscription, and we can see it wasn't going well. The other way is a tax that's being introduced. The third thing is to shut down RTS, or you have something else to do, to go to the budget, and the third thing is to shut down RTS and we don't have any public service. I don't think it's in anyone's interest, but it would just be insane if someone were shutting down the public service and we didn't have one such medium. We have two solutions, or there's going to be some kind of subscription, i.e. A fee that is predicted and that can no longer be, and it's a good thing that you've defined it by 500 dinar law or that it's on the budget? It can't, because the state is pulling out of all the media. Therefore, there must be some moduso to fund RTS. What's scary to me, that's how RTS has so far worked in the era of this subscription that you've been introducing, has led to people's anger, and you can even read on social networks, unfortunately, that people have come to ask that RTS be even eliminated. I could never accept that, and by erasing what you're asking to delete, you're asking for RTS to be abolished, because there's no other way, how do you think you finance it? How do you plan to provide her with independence? Then tell the citizens openly that you want to abolish RTS, and I don't think it's in the interest of the whole society, including the people themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7326	The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. On what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica) I don't think you're mentioned, for replication, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7327	Of course it's pointless to accuse anyone of wanting to shut down public service, RTS and tv. Of course, there are four other sources of funding planned next to the tax in this article, and therefore there are no threats. I repeat, RTS also existed in 2001 to 2004. You mentioned "Sablja", I'm proud of that action and I promise you that will happen again, maybe I won't do it, I wish I could, but it will be created...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7328	Mr. Zivkovic, please respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The word is from MP Sasa Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7329	I am sure that an opportunity should be given to this law, and an opportunity should also be given to the Public Service with a new management that works in very difficult conditions and should help them at this time, above all, because of the number of people who work in the Public Service and at RTV itself, so that I absolutely support the Ministry for not accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7330	Thank you. The word came under the amendment, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7331	There's a people's proverb -- which is a smart thing to be ashamed of, and I wouldn't quote it, but if someone was proud of what was going on then, and I'm going to connect, of course, right now to this amendment, and then it happened that the journalists had to go and talk about what they were going to write. They literally had to go to the conference and come to the briefings to tell them what they were going to write, and those who weren't obedient usually shut down the media or, let's face it, they'd be arrested. You have an example of a colleague from Kragujevac who was 20 and a few days in the justice of God in prison and never came to him with an indictment, but if you want to repeat the period when who knows how many people were arrested, and then you made it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to get their money out of their pockets that you had to pay those people there, God forbid it ever happens again, and thank God you'll never be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7332	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7333	Article 37 provides for the introduction of a tax, the development of this 500-dollar theme, I said that if we knew that 3.3 million were counting in Serbia, that it was 165m euros per year, if we consider that, say, 25% of the owners counted to get some relief for some reasons, that 25% remained 125m euros, and I just talked to people who knew the area, who told me that public services needed 80 million. My question is in this case - where's the 20? Why do we have to steal from the citizens all the time for some taxes? We say we cancel the subscription, bring in the fee. We're reducing unemployment, but we're actually increasing the number of people on the bureau. We're talking about opening up all the secrets and keeping the contracts in safes. These are things that are unnecessary for this law. Of course, we are both MPs of the New Party in this House who have contributed to the improvement of the law and I thank the minister for accepting the amendment that some of the other MPs and us together have submitted. This is proof that we do not want to create any obstruction, but precisely to improve this law, not by introducing a tax, but by financing from the budget by fixing 80m euros in dinar equivalent or by already making the Budget Law, 60 for or 62 for RTS, 18 for Vojvodina, it is the same guarantee of financial stability as the subscription that is bound.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7334	Time. Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7335	Here, a misunderstanding can be made here, and because you base your figure on a five hundred dinar figure, and the law has very precisely constraint that it's a limit, it's the maximum number of taxes it can be. During the transitional period this period when it is financed from the budget over a year and a half, costs will be optimised and exactly how much needs both RTS and RTTV are and will then know what the amount of tax will be, but what I am pleased about is that there is a full consensus here in Parliament on the necessity of public services.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7336	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7337	I just wanted one piece of information, for example, that HRT has a budget of 200m euros a year, so it's not exactly accurate that it has radio television with a much smaller number of workers than it has RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7338	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7339	It is the turn to explain to Serbian citizens that they pay RTS in every variant, even now that it is on the budget for the past year and a half, because the budget is also filled with taxpayers and it is again in a way, the citizen singles out and pays RTS. I am simply calling on all those who are now insisting that this can remain on the state budget, and then say you are against EU recommendations. They recommend that the state must withdraw from the media and we adopted it, among other things, which is why we are commended. So if you don't want a tax, and we see that the subscription went very badly, the tax is otherwise binding, so you just have to pay it, tell the citizens that you don't want RTS and that you want to shut it down or you think of one, I don't know what kind of system to survive, but this is one single system, or to be on the state budget, or that there's some kind of subscription, or a tax or simply to shut down RTS. I believe it's not in anyone's interest to shut down RTS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7340	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic reported on the basis of the amendment, you have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7341	Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I would only like to intervene on what Mr Djukanovic has now said. Please, neither one of us is anything, and of course regarding our amendment to Article 37, he didn't say at any point that he advocates that the Public Service doesn't exist, that RTS doesn't exist. The minister understood us very well, because the minister here earlier said that he was very pleased that in this assembly, if I understood it correctly, there was absolute agreement that RTS should exist. The Honorable Chairman, only to be understood here, even if a fee for the Media Public Service is abolished on the basis of a previous member of the 36th, we have other sources of funding. In point two, it says well – from the budget funds. Therefore, nothing changes to RTS except that we are against the tax and we believe that the financial independence of the public service will not be guaranteed by the tax. On the contrary, our subscription experience is such that if citizens notice that, for example, this public service is in the hands of the government, which was the case all the time while there was a subscription, they will simply respond and they will say – we will not pay. Gentlemen, that is why we say that the responsibility for the independence and independence of the public service depends primarily on how the Government treats the Public Service and we are asking for the experience from 2001 to 2004, where, just like here, there were funds from the budget, that we try to repeat that practice once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7342	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The People's MP Sasa Mirkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7343	I would not agree with some colleagues in the O.R. that it should be observed in this way as my colleague spoke in front of me for one simple reason - RTS in the past few months, since the new management came to RTS, there are mostly many new shows, a different programme, they started producing a lot of independent programs. The other thing is, don't forget that we sit here all day talking in the Assembly, and RTS broadcasts it. It is a television that needs both Serbian and Serbian citizens in every way. Therefore, it is necessary to help in every possible way and not to be convinced that you do not need a tax. He needs a tax. Could he have found some way to get rid of it to cable operators, that's another story. Probably the ministry, when it looked, is right about the distribution of payments, that it cannot be distinguished that one citizen pays the cable and another citizen pays the ether. For that reason alone, we need to support the Ministry as far as this latest law on this media set is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7344	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7345	For the sake of the truth to the citizens, why did I think you might want RTS to shut down? By the way, I'm glad that you're doing this declaratively, but you've proposed an amendment to delete article 37, and in article 37, it's been defined as funding the core activity of RTS and you've asked to delete it, and you haven't offered any alternative. Now I hear from you here that you might want to continue some budget financing. Well, it is the first complaint from all journalists and various associations that it would violate the independence of RTS if the state of Serbia continues to finance that television from the budget. So be honest, then, say you asked to delete this, and you didn't offer a single alternative, and that's why I thought you might really want the public service to shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7346	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7347	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am very fascinated by some discussions from my colleagues. Often they used to say, well, the world hasn't begun since the SNS came to power. I agree, Serbia has existed much longer than the SNS authorities. The way public service is financed is the crucial thing for him to be independent, not to depend on the Republic of Serbia's budget. We all know that, but don't, for God's sake, ask you more period 2001-2004 to point out as the greatest liquids of the democratic revolution, because even during that period, the session of the Serbian Parliament was abolished. It is, though some are headlong, that it was abolished from March 2003 to September and the final fall of that government in 2003. You then invented that due to the state of emergency, the state of emergency should be lifted, and the state of emergency passed on May 1st. The sessions were until September, and there was no transmission. Are those the fluids of the democratic revolution? Is that media independence? And they provided budget funds, which is the problem. At that time, anyone could order the public service to work, who was in power, who had leverage, to have the finance, to do whatever he wanted. Now this law is finally coming down and that story is coming down. He can't take it anymore. The representatives of the opposition, the representatives of the former regime can work hard, I don't mind any constructive discussion, I listened carefully, but let's take a real look. Serbia has never had a better set of media laws in its history than today at this session of the Assembly, and tomorrow we should vote on that if, of course, there are enough MPs to support this law. All parts and the international public dealing with this and the local public whose personal interest is not threatened by this law say this is the best set of laws. I ask you to go back to the discussion and say what was really in the past, where we have gained experience too, but you too that it should not be done and what bad laws are and to admit once that someone in this government is doing better than some previous government, much better, much more efficient, much faster, much more honest and much more in the interest of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7348	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Prime Minister Ivan Tasovac spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7349	If we talk about ways to finance public service, we recognize three ways. We tried one. It's a third-person subscription. In doing so, I don't think the number of numbers you mentioned is correct, but nothing really changes this. The second one's a different budget. The third option is tax. We've tried these variants, and it hasn't worked very well, and the tax is somewhere the most widespread at the moment as a form of funding public services everywhere in Europe. So this is the result of working groups working on drafts and broad debates and consultations with European experts and everything else. What I think is very important, is that in the next year and a half we're going to apply exactly what you're proposing permanently, and that's the budget. Based on the full analysis and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and all, this is the most sustainable way. Now I'm talking about the economic aspect. It is another thing that I absolutely believe it is also in terms of freedom of the media, i.e. freedom of public service, that is, the possibility of them being freed from any political influence is absolutely the best way. I'm telling you again, please don't bid at this time with the numbers, because it's very clear in the bill, it means up to 500 dinars. We could draw a bill now for 200 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7350	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7351	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, I would like to say three things purely for clarification to all of us who are taking part in this debate. The two of us have really suggested that Article 37 be deleted as a whole, but in Article 37, all attitudes concern public media service fees. Gentlemen, for Article 36, we did not suggest that a member be deleted as a whole, but we only suggested that only item 1 point 1) be deleted, and that means fees for public media service. Gentlemen, this means that if we cancel the tax, which we are actually proposing here, the following sources of funding for public services – point 2) funds from the budget, point 3) net users of commercial exploitation of content, etc. I'm just asking you to be precise here about what's proposed here. The second thing, about what Mr. Sasa Mirkovic, the MP, and not this Sasa Mirkovic, who performs on behalf of the government right now, is that there are new programs on RTS, of course, but just because the programs are new doesn't mean that public service is no longer independent of the functioning of the executive authority. I think the main court on the extent to which public service is independent of the executive power has just given citizens of Serbia, where we heard from one MP from the ruling majority here two days ago, I think of Mrs. Vukomanovic, one data and I am sure it is correct, because Mrs. Vukomanovic mainly uses such data in her research, that 75% of Serbian citizens do not pay. One part certainly because of the economic situation, but another part because Serbian citizens have estimated that the public service is in the hands of the government and will not give money, gentlemen. The third, last thing, and I will end it, Mr. Chairman, when we talk about 2003, it is true and I agree with Mr. Arsic that the direct transfers of the National Assembly session in early 2003 have been lifted, but, gentlemen, the transfers have been lifted within the state of emergency. Why is the state of emergency in place? Because the Prime Minister of this country was killed, gentlemen. I guess we should also think about it when we're discussing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7352	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, I gave you ten seconds more. You don't have any more time as an independent MP. Prime Minister Ivan Tasovac spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7353	Fully aware of the reality and the amount of the subscription, we are leaving that subscription model over the third person and that is why the TV subscription is being lifted. In the transitional period, when it will be financed from the budget, and as you said, it has proved to be a good and independent model, what different opinions exist, and when it stabilises RTS, I fully believe that it has a direct and direct relationship with its viewers. That level of interaction must be established. Maybe then the citizens will say they don't need public service at all. So is tv. It seems to me that this is now absolutely the only possible model. First of all, we're giving the budget a year and a half to stabilize the finances. Secondly, a tax is introduced as the most widespread model in all of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7354	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here in this house again are false. The occasion was that TV was lifted at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the assassination of the then Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, the introduction of a state of emergency, which was advertised unconstitutional in the meantime, but I am now asking a simple question – and what can MPs do? There's nothing I can do. The state of emergency is the suspension of a part of the Constitution. Even our rights have been suspended by this state of emergency, as much as it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7356	Mrs. Comic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7357	I don't remember the state of emergency until September 2003. And you should have. Probably because you couldn't have done anything else with the opposition at the time. As I recall, precisely because TV broadcasts were lifted at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a parliamentary group, or at least a group of MPs belonging to the Social Democratic Party at the time, cancelled the confidence of the then government. You can nod all you want, when it started to shake, when number 126 started falling below, then the National Assembly's session was restored. But if these are the fluids of democracy, which I pray you, please, don't teach us democracy any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7358	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7359	We have to tell the citizens the truth. It was not only during the "Sablje" period that the TV broadcasts were cut off, they were suspended later, and that was precisely from the MPs whose list includes the proposings of the amendment. At that time, they played us a recording of the assembly session. So much for that democracy. I am very pleased that the applicant for the amendment has finally admitted that he is actually in favour of the budget financing of RTS, as we see what he has proposed in the amendment. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia that it means that we have state television, and then we would have TV from the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is financed from the budget. But then I don't understand why they cut it when we were in 2000. Why would they shut it down so they could do public service? Then let us also be told that they are not exactly for the EU's recommendations that the state withdraws from funding all television and that they are against journalists' associations that will be the first to jump at our necks as the state affects RTS if the Serbian government is the funder of the same television. I'm glad they're admitting it now and some Serbian citizens know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7360	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7361	I've reported on the previous amendment, Mr. Chairman. I really don't understand why you don't have the same treatment for all the MPs in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7362	Mr. Nikolic, you weren't in the system. If you were, you'd get the word, just like you've got it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7363	I was in the system, showing me here. That's how much I can tell, because I've finished a little more schools than some of them who've given amendments here and who only write two words -- it's deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7364	And the secretary tells me you didn't. Mr. Nikolic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7365	Please take care of yourself next time, otherwise I'll answer your hand. I really wanted to comment on these brilliant amendments given by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7366	Mr. Nikolic, we're having trouble with the system today, and you may not be registered. And the secretary suggests that you weren't in the system, because if you were, you'd get the word, just like you got it now. Do you want to speak by this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7367	Not according to this amendment. I'll be waiting for the brilliant inventions of Proca the Finder.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7368	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7369	The amendment concerns Article 38, which has a rubrum – the obligation to pay taxes and paradigms is an example of what the best laws look like. In the recession, never good from the debate if, on the one hand, you have an attitude – this bill is the best, every amendment is terrible and the proposal is even worse and vice versa – this bill is the worst and every amendment is great. Unfortunately, there will be more time until we bring it down to debate on the subject. Article 38, which defines the payer’s fee, states: “The tax liability is any natural and legal person who is the beneficiary of the electricity measure per housing unit or business space.” You no longer need a measure of electricity. This is a member who's left behind from the payer's subscription. What will build a tax payer, will work to submit their data on the record list and in the next article, 39, says exactly what everything must contain who is a payer. There's no electric counter. A public media service will be paid from the budget for the next year and a half. There's no electric counter. In my explanation I wrote on purpose – if you leave this member, then you tell all of us, the tax is the same as the subscription, since we will pay over the electric counter. And it's not. So I ask you to delete this article, because you can write anything instead of an electric counter. The way the registration system will be established is a public service obligation. The third person is completely out of the system. I agree absolutely with the system being arranged, whatever. I know how hard it is to give a good message about whether to pay public service by subscription, tax or budget and that the reason is much more complicated for independence. But, please, erase this. It can't be the basis for him being a subscriber and getting information from there. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7370	Time, Mrs. Comic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7371	Thank you. I absolutely support the arguments of my colleague, Komic. We're listening here as the subscription was collected over the third person, and now, my God, it's going to be a tax and it's not the same and these two things have nothing to do with each other. And then you put in Article 38 that the obligor is every legal or physical person that the user measures electricity per unit or business space. So it's a member that absolutely cannot be found in this law. The next member is talking about what needs to be kept on bond records. Unfortunately, that's where the ED number is mentioned. So that says that the public service doesn't think it's doing anything to get a charge. So, a year and a half, this time the law provides, is just enough time to establish the records of the taxpayers who need to pay the tax, and not just take this record that exists in Elektro distribution now because then I don't see the need for this year and a half. We've got a record. Let's get a tax in here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7372	Thank you. Minister of Government Ivan Tasovac called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7373	Let me explain. So, the user of the electrical criterion serves only for personalization to have a database. What do you say we get a tax in here right now, and how do we estimate the amount of that fee? It takes the first time to determine over the past year and a half as long as there's time... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Let's say, 500 dinars. No, no, I just set an example, because you can't do the math when we put a number up to 500 dinars, and I don't believe that you and I are competent at this point to agree on a number. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Yes, because you are Minister. (President: Please don't throw from the bench. I think we've explained why this is, and I don't think it's a good idea to introduce a tax right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7374	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7375	Thank you very much. Article 38, as we've heard, proves that it's just changing the expression, otherwise the system remains the same and that the subscription remains over the count. That's a bit of a reminder. Back in the '90s, it was called a TV tax number, so we have here a formal return to the '90s in a very bad way. I repeat that there are better ways of funding, I repeat that there is a responsibility of the government to the independence of the public service. Like this, it's a farce where the government says -- no, no, no, it's independent, it's a tax, it's an independent income. On the other hand, the same authority is appointed by the manager, the director of that public service, so it is very possible for them to set up an informant or an informant for the director. I fully agree that RTS has been much better in the last nine months, of course, except for a political and informative programme that is, of course, catastrophic, as it was before that, but there are a lot of new emissions. Even the choice of reruns, the ones that go before noon, is better than it was before, and it should be commended. Let's say, "Greek in Straws" goes now in the morning, and in the evening, of course, "Happy People," as it was before. It's completely unclear how you think Ministers, to convince us that what counts again is part of the law, proves that there is no third subject and that we have moved from subscription to tax. It's simply inexplicable, as it is inexplicable and when you say the law is precise, Mr. Minister, that it's up to 500 dinars. It would be accurate if 500 or 426 were said, and when it's up to, then it's inaccurate. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7376	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7377	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have reported on this amendment, and I want to announce to the public that the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will not vote on these amendments given to this Assembly by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, because it is a real shame to spend the electricity pressing these buttons. Even these papers, which have been used to write these amendments that are not, because each paper is deleted. Yesterday we had 95 such amendments, where it says it is deleted, today we have a dozen of the same authors. My understanding and understanding of the amendments is to correct, integate and supplement the law, that the idea of a minister to think about it, to fit, as far as possible, this novelty into the legal text, improves it, and that Serbian citizens are able to act tomorrow in any area on which we bring the law in a much better and more quality way, to go where we all imagined, and we got legitimacy in these elections, which is a step by step towards the EU. We have come to an absurd situation that those who were in favour of joining the EU by yesterday, by their behaviour, by giving these amendments actually do something that is completely contrary to those values that we are seeking and which are in force in the EU. Giving such an amendment, without any idea in any way, if you don't like this, then you have to give an alternative. Then you sit on the assembly bench, because he hates you to get up, you don't respect the minister, you don't respect the chairman, you don't respect the other MPs, you don't respect the Serbian citizen's end line and you casually talk about the 1990s, some golden period when you were an unfortunate case of the Prime Minister. You're saying it was ideal back then, and nothing's wrong with this right now. Well, if it's wrong, why did the SNS get 50 per cent of the vote in Serbia? Why in the last election, when we participated in a coalition led by the SNS, did we get 50%? Why does the president of our party, Aleksandar Vukic, enjoy 70% of the confidence of Serbian citizens, following more serious public opinion research at this time? That and in reverse proportion, you'll never experience it, and I'm glad you're giving these amendments. The more you write them, the smaller your ratings will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7378	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7379	Articles 106 and 107. The previous speaker not only didn't talk about the agenda point, but he broke his dignity in my opinion because for who knows which time, although I don't have a bad opinion about my fellow MP, but I think he made a huge mistake, and you, especially, because you didn't interrupt him and we've heard again one lesson about which amendments are good, which are not and which are offensive and which one you imagine, someone writes to delete something. When someone else writes something that can't be fixed, it has to be erased. I don't think it's right for this kind of thing to be here to listen and to be measured again by what a MP can do and shouldn't do. One more thing, the laws of physics say that something standing can't move backwards. So we haven't opened any chapters with the EU. How do you think someone's slowing you down when we're standing? Give me some seriousness. Think about what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7380	Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7381	I might even support a amendment like this if something like this were really wiped out, but if you offered an alternative. But you didn't offer any alternative. You want in some way to deprive RTS funds. Pull yourself together, say what you want. Do you want it to be state television, but then explain to the people of the EU why you asked for it, because it can't do that anymore. Or you want it to be a public service. If it's a public service, citizens have to pay for it in some way. Or do you want to shut down RTS? You need to define yourself. It is simple, though Serbian citizens pay RTS in every variant, even if the state television is and the government pays from the budget, the budget is filled with taxpayers, i.e. All of us. Whatever you do, someone has to pay RTS. But what I'd like to ask you, Minister, is very important especially now that we're going to the era of digitization. You know, the question is whether all Serbian citizens will be able to have a digital signal, but you know how someone will pay that tax and whether the state is ready to give all people a digital signal, that's a very important question. I'd like to ask you one more thing, it's been happening, I know a few examples myself, let's say I know people who don't have a TV at all at home. They just don't want to watch TV, they threw out the TV, they got their subscription neatly. How are we gonna solve this if you still have people who don't want to use TV, don't watch TV, and they get a tax to pay for RTS? How are we gonna handle this situation? I'd like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7382	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Minister, I know you had a question, but you have no option under this amendment, so I'd like to ask you next to answer. You don't have time, you don't have a chance for a replica, and you don't have a National MP Gordana Comic, either. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7383	Let me just answer the question. So, the deadline for digitisation is 17 June 2015, and what you said about people who don't have television, no law from the European Union is foreseen. Someone here, as I say, referred to the health insurance story, but it's just not meant for anyone to have a TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7384	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7385	We just had the convictions that the electrician had nothing to do with this tax, and then in article 39, where the public media service is listed as keeping records of the payer's fee, etc. Two places mention the ED number, it probably means the number of Electrodistribution, or some distribution code, so that's another clear proof, even those who can't figure it out, even those who, with all their capacity, can't understand the basic reality, and that's that the tax is still connected to electricity, or the electric meter. It's clear as day, and that game of words, whether it's a tax or a subscription, it's a completely irrelevant thing. It is a tax that is introduced to Serbian citizens additionally, because they have, through the subscription, shown what they think about, not so much about the programme outside of politics and information, but what they look at through the information and political programme from those who now hold power, for which I can't figure out what the time from 2001 to 2004, when they didn't exist as a party at that time, as I remember, or perhaps they were in another party. Now, that's what they're supposed to do with themselves. Generally, we are asking for the removal of this member and for the public service Radio Television of Serbia and the public service Radio Television of Belgrade to be financed from the budget, in a way that is very simply explained and this way could be understood by anyone who is either not stupid or not malicious. I don't think there are any bad people here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7386	Minister Ivan Tasovac came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7387	I repeat once again, the EDB number is exclusively to create a database and the most rational way to get to that database, i.e. that RTS and TV can then start charging taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7388	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Dragan Nikolic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7389	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have reported and, of course, this amendment will not be accepted or voted at all in the voting day, because one of those in a series of pointless ones who bring nothing new is just trying to confuse the public of Serbia. What I'm trying to say, and what the previous speaker tried to explain highly intellectually, is that there's no difference between a subscription and a tax. There is a huge difference between a subscription to a TV that is paid monthly and that, after a year from not paying the statutes, you cannot press charges. As far as the tax is concerned, the tax is something which is binding, something that doesn't go out of date and something that people have absolutely obligation to pay. If they do not pay, then, of course, there is interest and it is impossible to avoid the application of the fee, as it has been possible so far, because you had a suffocation with the courts, because you had a lack of graduate lawyers who represented RTS, and at one point even RTS gave up on the complaint, given that the situation in Serbia is very economically bad. Therefore, the difference is huge and Serbian citizens should know, when this tax is introduced, there really is no playing with it, it will have to be paid. How to get the records, to my house, to Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's house, of course, will not be a secret. We'll sign up and we'll tell you how, and some others will have to go through the EDB to be there, maybe even in the vineyards or wherever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7390	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlic came forward. I'm sorry, Mr. Krlic, it is that I gave you my word, but I have to give my advantage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the MP Vesna Marjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7391	Excuse me, Mr. Krlic. Article 107, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to support the example given today by the President of the Assembly, warning MPs not to declare whose amendments are meaningless anymore. Yesterday we heard there were a lot of them. It is simply your duty, if the MPs themselves have not read the Constitution and the laws of this country and the Rules of Procedure, to remind them that it is the constitutional right of every MP to submit amendments, and whether they are meaningless and numerous is no place for anyone here to assess. So, please, really, for three days at each exposure, it's repeated. The President of the Assembly has rightly warned today. Please do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7392	Thank you. I hope that all MPs will strive to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and respect their fellow Members. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7393	We just had a real triad of reality and intelligence, we had an explanation of what today's reality in Serbia is just over this example of paying for a TV subscription. We heard from gentlemen who have a sense of reality that 75% of Serbian citizens do not pay the subscription because in public service they recognized the support of the Serbian government, i.e. recognized that link between the party in power and public service, which says 75% of Serbian citizens, by your logic, support you. We saw it in the March elections and it was very clear. It's just amazing, yesterday there were 14 of you in this room, and 16 of you were ministers. So 100% of Serbia's citizens support you, you're not even there for the formation of a single government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7394	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7395	You know, when such a great genius modernises Serbian political thoughts from the vineyards tells us and submits an amendment, and not to give any alternative, only the question arises – so why does he submit such an amendment when they have introduced a TV subscription? The party I once belonged to, and speaking of belonging, it's true, we used to belong to a pretty big and strong political party, today we're even bigger and, thank God, the people rewarded us and we're in power, we lead the people, unlike you who were once in a party, and today you're in a nonexistent. I'm asking you, what did you introduce your timely subscription to RTS? Why didn't you leave it to be state television and controlled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Answer us simply. You're the ones who introduced it then, we were against it then, and you gave the citizens a subscription because you told us it was democratic fluid. Now that we've seen that that didn't go very well, that citizens won't pay for it, and RTS somehow has to finance itself, and you're opposed to everything that affects the state, at least it's declared that many of you are opposed to the state affecting the work of the media. Then we're proposing a tax, and now it's not a good tax. I ask you nicely, define yourselves men for what you are, are you for government television, are you for public service to all citizens, are you to shut down RTS? The fourth option does not exist. Please tell us what's the alternative if we adopt this amendment of yours and delete the entire article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7396	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7397	Article 40, which is to be deleted, states how the data for the single record jointly handled by RTS and RTTV, is to be collected by the payer to report to the public service a change in the data referred to in Article 39 within 15 days of the beginning of the change. It's a shorter deadline than when you move. The point in this article, and in some others, is the government's explanation of why this amendment should be rejected. The reasons for Article 40 reads - the amendment is not accepted because this provision is necessary for the implementation of the law. Find me one member of any law on the globe that is not necessary for law enforcement. So, this board of government is absolutely at the level of fake music from the Nish tour bus. It's completely pointless... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7398	Mr. Zivkovic, if I have warned other MPs to respect, I have now asked all MPs to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and not to express such qualifications, and therefore I ask you to respect that. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7399	An attitude has been added that warns of the handling of personality data. I beg you, when we understand that this should be entered into a member who defines who handles personality data, then we should remind ourselves of the unnecessaryness, the senselessness of Article 38. Radio TVs Serbia and TV are collecting data from the debtors. He can't have anything to do with a number. We can have a completely unnecessary problem with handling personality data, because you put in article 38, and in article 39, you say that public media services collect on a written request from the debtor. Incidentally, by mistake, there was no point in data. It is not permitted for RTS and RTS to communicate directly with electricity after the adoption of this law, inadmissible. It doesn't exist as a third party anymore. That information can't be on the market, because a member of the 40th commits you. We ourselves are obliged to ask for a written request from the debtor. Those who are bound by the tax will provide you with a ‘ED’. This can't stay. We are unnecessarily creating a problem and a place of doubt that personal data will be handled in an unauthorized manner. The third party ceases to exist. Here you could write anything then, because you can't take data from the power distribution and it's clearly in article 40 where it's said – we're addressing a written request for data. Delete this article in 38th and leave no doubt that personal data will be handled in a legally prescribed manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7400	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7401	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, we have conducted similar interventions in the same position of Article 2 of Article 40 relating to the unique record of bonds, which is jointly handled by RTS and RTS. We have suggested that it stands here for RTFs from the APV territory, precisely because it is the essence of this amendment that the bond records, which represent a single database, which is the hand of RTS and RTV, for investors from the AP Vojvodina territory, which is conducted electronically, etc., that the tax represents public income and, in accordance with the regulations governing the area of public income, users, in this case RTS and RTS, must keep a record of the debtors because it makes payment and forced payment. We've been denied this amendment. The refusal states that it is not accepted for the reason that the solution contained in the bill is more comprehensive. Since Mrs Comic's amendment has been accepted, it should probably explain to us that the more comprehensive amendment proposed by Mrs Comic is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7402	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7403	In Article 41, the way in which the fee is paid is explained. Since we're against that tax, it's perfectly natural to ask to delete that member and that's the logic that I think everyone well-intentioned will understand. But again, we have one very interesting explanation for the rejection of this amendment. Therefore, in Article 41, the reasons for refusal are deleted – the amendment cannot be accepted because the said member has established a way of paying a fee, which is legal matter. That's genius. So we suggest that the tax be abolished, and the reason not to accept that amendment is to repeat it once again – because this member is determined the way in which the tax is paid, which is legal matter. Well, every letter, every single character of the interpretation in this text is legal matter, as in the previous explanation, whether that article is necessary for law enforcement. Of course it is necessary for law enforcement, because at the beginning of this paper it writes – the bill, and it will probably become a proposal tomorrow. Of course everything in it is necessary for law enforcement. So, farce switching from subscription to fee over the counter in exactly the same way, which, of course, has nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture and Information. This has more to do with finance, so there's no reason, Minister, for you to defend this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7404	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 41st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I will read only part of the article to which my amendment applies. There is talk of how to pay a fee and it is said that the funds collected on the basis of the tax are paid on the sub-account of RTS and RTTV open to the Treasury Administration. The funds paid in the area of the Republic of Serbia outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina are the revenues of RTS. The next position is – funds charged in the area of the AP Vojvodina territory are allocated by 70 per cent of the funds paid being allocated to the Vojvodina Radio Television and 30 per cent of the funds paid is allocated to Serbia's Radio-Television. I suggested that the funds charged outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina, I don't understand this formulation, but come on, it doesn't matter, they share 70% of Serbia's radio-television as a roof public service in the Republic of Serbia, and 30% for the regional services that I advocate, because when we shut down local media by self-government, our municipalities and cities south of Sava and Danube, Shumadi, eastern, western and southern Serbia will not have the same quality and the same level of public service and satisfaction of public interest as in Vojvodina. I note, that RTS as a roof service throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we south of Sava and Danube will pay 100% and watch as much as it can produce the programme, and in Vojvodina it will watch just as much as we do, but it will pay 30%. I suggest, and I don't have a problem with that, but I have a problem with the fact that south of Sava and Danube in Nis, Vranja, Leskovac, Šapcu, wherever, doesn't allow public service to be formed by justifying that there is no money. The money is decided by us, the National Assembly, the People's MPs, not the Ministry. You're making proposals, we're in charge of the budget, not the government. The National Assembly adopts this act. I would ask you, MPs, especially those who come from Nis to support the amendments in the voting day tomorrow and give you the chance that there are regional services, that people south of Sava and Danube who will have the same obligations and we have to have the same obligations and we have to pay that fee all, absolutely, I am in favour, but give us a chance that we all have the same rights, whatever part of Serbia's territory we live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7406	I thank Dr. Obradovic. The People's MP Marko Djurisic came forward for his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7407	I would support a colleague from my parliamentary group and his arguments, but I would also like to point out that the minister tried to deceive us a little earlier when he said that the electrical number records would only be used to create a database. So in this article, point 5. The RTS shall provide the template set out in Article 2 of this Article on the obligor who is the beneficiary of the criteria and electricity per unit, i.e. the business space, which is located outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So you become a liability if you have an electric counter. That's clear. So, you're not a liability because you're listed as an obligor by RTS or RTS, you're a liability because you have a number. And you told us that the count records would be used to make the base. So we can talk about it in Article 39. But why in Article 41 is it said to be delivered to the obligor who is the beneficiary of the electricity measurement per housing unit. So we want to clearly separate that the tax in the future is charged, that's our idea, but you're making this one charade and you're saying it wasn't what it was. Yes, these are all the solutions that were related to the billing of the subscription. There's no mention of an electric counter anywhere. That's the past, that's what we break with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7408	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP general, Dr. Janko Veselinović, just tell me what time you're using. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: I use the time of the parliamentary group. All right, you got three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7409	So, on this amendment, I would like to establish the material once again and prove that by not accepting this amendment, the government confirms the following – on March 25th, when, then, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic promised to cancel the TV subscription, he did not say the next thing – I will introduce a tax, and instead of 500 dinars, you will pay the fee and base for that being that you have an electric number, as it has been so far, and that will be the only basis for paying that fee and a point. So in that sense, the citizens are deceived. You ministers now testify, we accept a law that will allow Serbian citizens to pay a fee instead of a subscription, the basis for this will be an electric number. In the same amount of 500 dinars, with their salaries and pensions 10-15% less, at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7410	Thank you. To Article 41 of the amendment... Did you want to follow this amendment, Mr. Minister? You have your word, Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7411	So this sounded very effective, especially with this part of a 500-dollar tax. I repeat again, it's the maximum tax rate and once again I say this is the most rational way to get to the database. The second option is, how? To introduce those Swedish detectors that were in the old Yugoslavia, nonexistent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7412	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7413	Thank you. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to be democratic and open to some constructive debate. I've repeated that a few dozen times today, and if we don't scare the citizens of the creature, there won't be local media, you'll all be paying, you're afraid of electric numbers, you hide them in your homes. I don't know what kind of messages are being sent to the citizens this time. The minister has also mentioned several times, and I will also insist that it is one way of making records and that it is the beginning. And that there are, of course, a number of sublaws that will be more detailed in the regulation of certain provisions, and it is our job to, in addition to passing laws and overseeing, control how these laws are implemented. Is there a necessary sublegal act to follow how it is implemented? Now, our obligations will be that everything that isn't defined this time and what you've heard and what's in the way of the opposition standing in the good part, we try to get through the sublegal act to regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7414	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7415	Minister, just one proposal to agree on something. The tax is maximumed to 500 dinars, right, but the salary that citizens will receive and pensions will not be sufficiently minimalised in the next period. So we don't know how small the salary and pension will be paid by citizens and whether they can pay that tax of, say, 450 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7416	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7417	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I only wanted to comment on what my fellow respected Mr. Janko Vesenovic said, which is that the tax will be paid and that the tax will be paid by all those who have electric numbers. It is simply not true and serves to create a hysterical atmosphere in this assembly and to scare the citizens of Serbia. In fact, an electric counter will only serve as a rapper to determine who has electric currents, and by logic, it can also have a TV receiver and a radio receiver. But there are statements that have been used in the previous period and will be used and beyond, that where you have an electrical number in an auxiliary facility, in some warehouse in a country house, where you don't normally live and where you don't have an electric number and with that statement under material, criminal and moral responsibility you commit to and declare that you don't actually have a TV receiver there, that you don't receive any signal and you won't be charged this tax. It's just for the public. Otherwise, this is another one in a series of pointless amendments. I have the right to say that because each of the MPs has the right to make an amendment. But I, too, as a MP, can tell if that amendment makes sense, whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense. When it doesn't make sense, then you say it's pointless. Therefore, these amendments are "expunged" without any idea, without any innovation, any addition, giving new ideas, for me can only be qualified, in one word, and that sounds right in the public of Serbia – these are pointless amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7418	Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7419	Article 106. The Honorable Chairman, you were required to warn the People's MP. It has already been pointed out several times that amendments by MPs cannot be characterized as pointless, so that the Government would not accept a certain number of our amendments. It means the government would be pointless. I have never said that the Prime Minister or the Government is pointless, which has accepted our amendments. Why would proposing amendments accepted by the government be pointless? Why would someone create a hysterical atmosphere so they say that instead of 500 dinars, citizens will pay 500 dinars of tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7420	Mr. Veselinovic, don't turn a breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica. I'm begging you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Yes. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 41 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7421	Mr. Chairman, the Serbian Renewal Movement absolutely has full awareness that public services should be financed. The fact that those in Europe are financed either from the budget, or from a competition on projects, or from providing commercial services, or by combining all three methods. We don't even have anything against this solution, because in any case it goes to the burden of Serbian citizens. Since analyses have shown that only 3% of the funds would be needed to finance six regional public services from the current level of payment and what is allocated from the budget to two public services. I suggested that the RTS account allocates that amount to 10% of the funding on six regional public services, which would be slightly more than 1.5%. And for the sake of honesty, for the sake of the public, I've made a lapus in a discussion rather than a billion and 750 million dinars, I said the euro, so this way I apologize. Now what am I proposing this for? Because the example is working on a television average of 26,000 dinars. The public should know that even at the public service of RTS and Vojvodina, the average earnings are not very large, but they are better than this average and because that average would improve if the parameter was low television. If we take, say, Kraguje TV, there's an average profit of 32,400 dinars. Journalists who work there and who, if there were regional public services, would be satisfied with that salary in the competition. I believe that the material position of these journalists needs to be improved. Here I go. Like, there's no administration there, just one lawyer. They don't even have a driver. Only three porters before retirement, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7422	Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7423	Article 42 provides for reliefs, i.e. exemptions from the obligation to pay a fee. But since we're pushing for the tax to be abolished. When there's no tax then there's no conditions to release from something that doesn't exist. So, the essence of our proposal is that, and the government's argument that it refuses is once again absolutely the top of legal thinking. It says - the amendment cannot be accepted because the said member has identified the issue of legal matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7424	The word came from the Government of Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7425	I'd just like to explain. Article 42 provides for a full list of persons who will be exempt from paying taxes, which I think is very important, from the beneficiary of the right to financial welfare, pensioners with a minimum pension, persons with disabilities, not to list everything now. So we are fully aware of what our citizens are in the situation we have been trying to make a tax, as a kind of European practice that has proved to be best for public services, to adapt unfortunately to this very, very difficult time in which we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7426	People's MP Marko Djurisic came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7427	This is interesting. This article 42 discusses the possibility of tax exemption, as the minister said. We've been listening to colleagues say someone who doesn't have a reception signal can come and write and get rid of the fees. It doesn't exist in this article. It doesn't exist. But there is a need for documentation to be released if there are multiple electrical numbers and then says that person should bring in documentation that consists of evidence of property ownership, proof that no one is using the facility. I don't know which organ in the state gives you evidence that no one uses the facility. And evidence of electricity consumption, I don't know what that evidence needs to be, what is proven by electricity consumption, but it's interesting to talk about electricity consumption as well. So not only the electric criterion, but the electricity consumption, I guess if you spend less than 200 kv, then you'll be released, because you don't live there, let's just say, on an arbitrary basis. I beg you, separate the subscription that was paid over an electric fee. This is how you compromised the whole idea of a tax, because everything that is related to the documentation and to the payment and release of the subscription is connected to the electric number.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7428	Minister Tasovac called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7429	The main difference is that before, the subscription was charged by the EPS, and in this case only the database is used, and the tax will be charged by RTS and RTS as a public service.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7430	National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 43rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7431	In Article 45, he says – funds charged by fees, etc. Since we are against tax and charge, we are against all members of the tax concerned and, of course, it is handled in the simplest way by asking for the amendment to be deleted. We did it in this case, and we'll do it every time we get a bad enough law. If I were to remind myself that in the principle debate, I said this was a good set of laws and I would agree with some who said this was the best set of laws in Serbia's history, except it's not good enough. It could be better. There is no need to miss the opportunity, that when something is very good, not to make it great and that is the meaning of our amendments, as it was in the case of the Privatisation Act. So tax is not necessarily a solution. It is dominant in the EU, but many things in the EU are dominant, so we do not apply them. For example, Kosovo's recognition, say, of sanctions to Russia, so we don't apply. There are also countries in the EU that are against the recognition of Kosovo and against sanctions on Russia, including some of them, a solution to finance public service that is from the budget. The explanation of why this amendment should be rejected is very interesting, so it says – public revenue is the means of public revenue and can only be used to achieve public interest. Who understands, it's an honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7432	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it is one aspect of this law that is not dominant but, therefore, it is domestic cinematography and the abolition of the provision that 1.5% of RTS revenue from subscription, i.e. in this case from the fee is paid to the Serbian Film Centre for the Development of Domestic Cinematography. This may not be a dominant issue for this law, but it is crucial for Serbian cinematography. I believe that by not adopting this amendment, we are putting a blow to this very important work of art that should be at the heart of the Ministry of Culture and to you, Mr. Minister as an artist. The explanation, of course, is also amazing. It is said – an amendment is rejected because RTS revenues are used exclusively in the public interest of public service. I am now asking - is domestic cinema in the public interest of public service, and in addition not only is it in the public interest of Serbian citizens, but is it in the commercial interest, given that showing domestic films certainly increases advertising revenues? You, Mr. Minister, I see today and one of your associates, during the debate in principle, said we should not worry about Serbian cinematography because of our accession to the Creative Europe programme. On the site of the Ministry of Culture, I read the competition and conditions of the competition for the creative Europe programme, where under the notes, item 5 says – an open invitation does not apply to co-finance cinematographic achievements. Everyone knows that when the issue of cinematography, or the creative Europe programme, that there are no means for film production, there are no. They exist for the development of the script, for film festivals, for the support of artists but not for production. So, my question, Mr. Minister, how will the film or Serbian cinema be financed in the future?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7434	Thank you, Miss Marjanović. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7435	It sounded very nice in the previous law of these 1.5% that stand out for the Serbian Film Centre, but for the sake of truth, you should say that there were never any preconditions and that one single dinar was not transferred to the Film Centre. Looking at the difficult situation that is in cinema as well as in all other areas in our country, this year the Ministry of Culture and Information has allocated three times as much funding to the Film Centre as it was last year and in fact the largest funds for the last ten years. As the last thing, I have just mentioned, so you did not correctly interpret, so the adoption of this set of media laws is a prerequisite for Serbia to join an audio visual programme as well as under a creative Europe programme, and for the sake of accuracy, it should also be specified that Serbia is the first non-EU country to have already joined the Creative Europe programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7436	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Unfortunately, Mrs. Marjanovic, you have no right to a replica. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and guests, it was necessary to submit two amendments to Article 45, and this is the only example for today's debate because we had to specifically analyse all those members of this bill that kind of referred to a new tax issue. In Article 45, it's not all about the tax, so we decided, here's what I suggested here, that Article 4 and Article 5 of this Article 45 be completely deleted with the same explanation that we had for all the members of this bill regarding chapter four of the financing bill. Now, compared to this article in our 45th amendment, I now have only one brief comment on the situation, also on the explanation that came from the Serbian government. I agree with the reasons on our amendments are not identical or not the same case as with Mrs. Papug, that the wholeness, purpose, synonym, etc. No, we have really different explanations and there is one creativity of the author of these arguments, but here's an explanation for my amendment to Article 45. It says – the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution has been introduced into the text of the bill to ensure that public revenue is spent. Among other things, it was the European Commission's request. I conclude this, if something appears to the legislator as a request from the European Commission, then it necessarily enters into the text of the bill. Since the European Commission is not only dealing with the issue of media, information and culture, but is one EU institution dealing with a number of policy areas in almost all possible areas, then I wondered, if the European Commission asked Serbia... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Serbia imposes sanctions on Russia, do we have to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7438	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 51st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7439	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, is here talking about a report on the work and business of the Public Service. According to Article 51. RTS and RTV submit once a year to the National Assembly for consideration, the report. We were just asking for this amendment to be added, that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina is also delivering a report simply referring to the provisions of Article 62. The Law establishing the competence of the APV, and we believe that this proposed amendment, namely the TV report that should also be submitted to the APV Assembly for consideration, allows this law on the competences of the APV to be complied with. Here the ministry has rejected this amendment with that famous sentence – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the solution is contained in the draft law more comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7440	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7441	Because he is the founder of one and the other Public Service Republic of Serbia. That could have gone behind the wrist.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7442	Thank you. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7443	Thank you. The amendment was happily accepted because it was in the original text – for consideration it was delivered to the National Assembly. The National Assembly cannot consider, the National Assembly can only decide on something and fortunately that we understood about the amendments, but I remind you of this amendment, which has been accepted, that the National Assembly cannot propose either. We will have a problem with the procedure within the National Assembly on the amendment submitted by my colleagues to propose members to the programming committee. The National Assembly has an electoral and legislative function, except that it has a supervisory post over the government and all others. So we will have to find, if we can at all, the procedure that we are proposing, because the basis for this is not in the Law on the National Assembly, nor in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, nor in the Constitution. As we do not have to consider anything, since we have not entered into the law of the debate session of the Assembly, we must all discuss what we are discussing to decide in some way, to reach a conclusion, to vote on the law, to vote on the amendment, to choose a person in any sector for which the Assembly is competent to deal with election functions, or to deal with election functions within the National Assembly itself. So, please reconsider the amendment until tomorrow, until the vote, as I ask you to consider once again tomorrow until the amendment which deletes a member from having an electric number is binding. The right to be a taxpayer of taxes can only come under this law because you have a radio and a TV receiver. He can't because you have a number. Except that the way the data traffic between Elektroprivreda and RTS can be very problematic from the point of view of the Personal Data Protection Act, because the Elektroprivreda of Serbia gives you this information at the request and can tell you on the basis of what, why. Please think about it by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7444	National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 53rd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7445	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, speaks here in article 53 of the implementation of the supervision of the application of the provisions of this law, which should, under this proposed law, be carried out by the Ministry of Public Information. In our amendment, we added a second position in which we said that the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina through its bodies in the field of public information, in accordance with the law, is controlling the law governing the area of public information in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Let me remind you again that the proposed amendment is in line with the provisions of Article 63. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, which empowers the Autonomous province to oversee law enforcement as a confidential business, which regulates the area of public information in the territory of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. This amendment is not accepted with the reason that the solution contained in the draft law is more comprehensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7446	Thank you. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7447	Article 54 provides for criminal provisions, as well as in any law on harassers, for the fines of 3,000 dinars will be punishable for a violation for a natural person who does not report a change of data, in accordance with Article 40(4). It is, then, who doesn't report a change in the number through which the current comes to his television. The fine of 10,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of a legal person who commits that serious data breach in accordance with Article 40. Of course, this article is also proof that here from a single subscription, which had an apparent kind of volunteering, is now being introduced here. It's a matter of constitutionality of this law and we're going to run a constitutionality assessment and it's a matter of some interpretations, which we just heard, that doesn't run out of debt for this cab. Is that in accordance with the law on bond relations, which implies obsolescence within a year, but it's not a topic today. The reason for the refusal of our amendment to be a member of 54th is, of course, still the highlight of legal theory and practice - the amendment is not accepted because without clear sanctions, the law is unthinkable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7448	Thank you. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7449	Article 55 provides for the same fines, of 3,000 dinars for a natural person and 10,000 dinars for a legal person. Also, if someone does not report a change in their electrician within 15 days, they will be fined 3,000 or 10,000 dinars. The explanation is the same as for the previous position - the amendment is not accepted because without clear sanctions, the law is being devised. This law provides for the introduction of a tax on 1 January 2016. I guarantee you that it will not be introduced, only today and for the next year will we have the confusion that we have passed this law, or those who vote for it, because on January 1, 2016, it smells like a pre-election time, when surely the demagogue rule will not introduce any new taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7450	Thank you. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7451	Thank you. The amendment concerns transitional and final provisions to a member, which reads: ‘RTS and RTV are obliged to form a single register of taxpayers of fees by 01 October 2015 and make a decision on the content and form of a single fee payment form and a single tax exemption form’. Since I belong to those who cheer for better quality public services, who think it's a process in which we all learn and we all change our skills, whether we work in a public service or we work in the Assembly or we are users of the program, I encourage it to be a good program. As these laws were announced, my amendment said that this deadline of 1 October 2015 was replaced by "1. June 2015," because it makes sense when you want a good process, which is promised by these laws, to be launched as soon as possible. However, after the debate, I have no problem saying that I misjudged and that my amendment should have been read – by 31 December 2015, to extend, not to shorten. Since I can't stand amendments that can't fix the text in any way, I'm withdrawing this amendment and it stops being a subject of dispersion. He won't be voted on. I will ask you, since this is the last time I address the debate in particular, to pay attention to the position of Article 1 of the 59th, which concerns the obligations of the National Assembly and once again on the role of the National Assembly, which will propose something to someone based on a public competition that will also be called upon by means of the acts to be brought forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7452	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 60a. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7453	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have added this Article 60a. We wish it without delay, and no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law, it provides the means to rebuild the facilities and equipment of the RTV destroyed by the bombing in 1999. For those of you who do not know, and perhaps many do know, the TV or the building on Micheluk, which had three studies, equipment, produced various programs, was, unfortunately, destroyed completely in the bombing in 1999 and has been producing a program for 15 years and broadcast it into ten languages for two networks from inadequately rented space. It is a former building called "Naphtagas", which, as far as I know, was not even "Naphtagas" without any real possibilities for adaptation and capture of purposes. I don't know if anyone's ever had a chance to sit in studios in that space? These are practically converted former offices into studios, where the reflector hits your face directly. The lease for such an inadequate space since 2008 has cost this house nearly five million euros to date, and bringing in the site's purpose in Miseloku, which looks frightening and reminds us of the ugly days, would solve the issue of space for development for the next 15 years, creating conditions for the introduction of modern production technology. I must point out that in these conditions, too, RTV produces a quality program, a diverse programme, given the circumstances in which it works, and that this problem would be very necessary and urgently solved, in order to virtually equalize itself with RTS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7454	Prof. Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 61st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7455	Thank you, Chairman. How much time do I have from the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7456	You have two minutes per amendment and 35 seconds left. So a total of two minutes and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7457	Okay, you'll give me these 20 seconds. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7458	Sign up again, so I can count your time from the beginning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7459	So, with this amendment, I proposed that an inequality be corrected in which Serbian citizens are put against the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens and against all the legal principles that put citizens in the same position. With this amendment, I proposed that the owners of the radio and TV receivers, who under the Broadcasting Law regularly reconciled their obligation and paid radio television subscription to public broadcasting services, freed the obligation to pay a fee for public media service up to the amount of paid radio television subscription in the period from 1 June 2013 to the date of entry into force of this law. So, this proposal gives the opportunity to correct the injustice and that the subscription paid from June 1st... Why was he taken on June 1st? Because the former Deputy Prime Minister announced on May 23rd that TV subscription was lifted and that the TV subscription had fallen and that in 2013, out of two and a half billion dinars, everything in the amount of 379 million dinars was charged. The biggest damage was suffered by citizens who paid TV subscription. Those citizens who did not pay a TV subscription, compared to these citizens, remained in a privileged position. With this amendment, Minister, we suggest that it be corrected, that this inequality be removed. In your explanation, which you have given why you do not accept this amendment, you say the amendment is not accepted, because it was an invitation to further disregard for the law and in the signature and seal of Alexander Vukic. The same man who announced the termination of the TV subscription, tragically. So once again, accepting this amendment would be an invitation to further disregard for the law. So, further non-payment of the subscription. What, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7460	Your time is up. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7461	I want to join my colleague, Veselinovic, and give us all a chance to correct an injustice by adopting this amendment. So, the majority of citizens did not pay the subscription and I believe that the Facebook notice of Mr. Vukic, from May 23rd, certainly did not contribute to the payment of the subscription in the period from June 1st to today. Citizens who paid the subscription, I'm among them, since the minister didn't want to share with us whether he was paying. I've brought my electric energy bill for the last month, you can see 500 dinars was in charge. So I didn't have a debt. I also paid 500 dinars for this month, even though on the day we paid for the debate and announced the suspension, I paid as a responsible citizen. Now I'd like the minister to tell me, no offense, in one comic book that went out in the daily newspaper yesterday, there are two animals laughing at a citizen who regularly paid for a TV subscription, which I am from these two animals. I won't be offended, but I think all those who've been paying the subscription in the last year... (President: Do not show any cartoons in this home. I'd like to ask you. Who am I insulting? (President: It is not appropriate for this high home. Who have I offended? (President: If you don't think you are, go on. Here you go. I think they can only be offended by the people who paid the subscription. I think it's necessary that we adopt this amendment. I don't understand how adopting this amendment would be an invitation not to continue to respect the law. So, we will, once we adopt this law, cancel the subscription. That's what we've established. We just want those who paid the subscription in the period from 1 June 2013 to today, then the funding was from the budget, the minimum number of people paid that subscription, so that these people wouldn't feel, as the chairman thought it would be offensive, as I described, to be rewarded and not to pay the fee until the amount they paid this year and two months. So I don't see how accepting this amendment is an invitation to disobey the law. I think it's not paying the subscription and everything that's been said in the last, not just a year, but two and more years ago, by some, that it's not supposed to pay the subscription, that it's bad, that it's an invitation to disobey the law. We want to protect those people who have respected the law until today, so that we can respect it in the highest number and when we adopt this law and when we want to pay the tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7462	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7463	Thank you, Your Honor. We have now witnessed an incredible hypocrisy by certain MPs, whose former political option has just introduced a television subscription. She insisted on the television subscription, although Serbian citizens, in part, did not pay for it. Instead of taking some measures then, possibly to put an end to it, they let it all go and allowed the RTS system to collapse, even if someone had become that animal, don't God, maybe they could thank you just for your missed policy and how to finance RTS. Right, this may be a kind of injustice, but I'm sorry, it's not our fault, but it's your fault, who introduced a system like this and brought all the citizens of Serbia to get a public service that wasn't essentially that and that they got something that's supposed to be a debt, and it can't be charged. We need to secure public service funding. I asked you today and I ask you to tell us – do you have an alternative to how to fund it? If you don't have it, don't criticize it just for the sake of criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7464	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Veselinović, you do not have the right to reply, because the presentation of the speaker was not offensive to you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 61. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7465	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, feels that we do not violate, how can I say, the respect of the citizens, who have paid regularly, and now wonder what will happen to them, or what treatment they will have, if the non-payers are given the debt so far because of the non-payment of the TV subscription, and the bills continue to arrive, i.e. until last month, that it is mandatory to pay. In that sense, in order not to drag something like this forward, we have inserted a 61st member in which we say – it is authorized TV to take over in the territory of the APV to carry out the collection of unpaid fees from natural and legal persons. According to the Law on Broadcasting, RTS was responsible for the reminder of irresponsible subscribers and their possible complaint. Since this job is unfortunately very, let me use the word "smulliedly done" and such an inefficient system of billing has actually collapsed. In line with the solutions set out in the draft law, especially in Article 41, paragraph 10, according to which the TV on the APV territory is in the future leading the payment procedure for the unexecuted fee obligation, it is celery, we thought, that it would enable TV to make sure that the unpaid subscription is charged, because we still don't know what will be the fate of those who haven't paid, or how it will all look in the eyes of regular payers, who still have a higher percentage in Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7466	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7467	Thank you. I want to thank the representatives of the ministry for accepting this amendment in front of the SNS. At the same time, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation during the preparation of this bill and during the discussion at the National Assembly. I would also like to thank fellow Members of Parliament who have really made a significant contribution to improving that original bill. Although many flat-rates and insults could be heard during this discussion, especially directed to the ruling majority, let's forget it, let's introduce the citizens very briefly to a few facts. We have discussed some 220 amendments on media laws. 23 amendments, mostly opposition, were adopted through an extremely constructive debate, particularly on the Committee on Culture and Information. I would like to inform the citizens that last night at 22:00 we held a session of the Committee on Culture and Information where we discussed these amendments, where the representatives of the ministry and opposition and the MPs were indeed involved, and that it was working hard. These last four days we have really worked hard, all fellow MPs, all the congregation services, and I especially thank them on my behalf and on behalf of my party, and I think that such dedicated and effective work can help the Serbian government to endure this very long, hard and hard way. Tomorrow, according to this discussion, we will vote on all five reform laws, the Law on privatisation and bankruptcy and a set of three reform media laws, and thus we will be counting one big step forward on that list of steps waiting for us towards the path of European integration and improvement of the standards of life of citizens in Serbia. Thank you all again. I especially thank the citizens who have been paying great attention to this session for the last four days, this extraordinary session, and once again I thank my colleagues who have tried to be as constructive as possible within their borders. Dear colleagues, I think this is the only way to improve our own image of the MPs and the Serbian Parliament as the highest home in Serbia with a polite debate and argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7468	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7469	Dear MPs, I would like to thank everyone who participated in this debate today in detail. I must say that some of the moments of this debate were far easier than the debate we had, specifically with the prime minister throughout the process of preparing these laws. Around many points, specifically about the fee, he was extremely opposed. Simply, the facts presented by both the professional public and what is the best European practice simply resulted in us having a bill, one of the laws, a tax at the moment. But speaking of the details, I really think that today after all this day we've lost sight of actually, that we're bringing a set of reform media laws here. I would just go through the most important items briefly, which is, firstly, in the Public Information Act and the media, as a roof law, the state comes out of ownership in the media. Full transparency of the ownership structure is established. Public interest has been defined in the field of public information. Protecting media pluralism, project co-financing. In the Law on Electronic Media, full compliance with the EU directive in audio, visual media services and also creating complete preconditions to move on to, or preconditions for digitisation. We also have a law on public media services, so it seems to me that this set of media laws has created a framework for us to have better information, that we can give citizens far more quality information, that we can provide all media community members and all journalists with better working conditions. Thank you again for all the criticism. Thank you for identifying how many new and important things there are here, and I hope you vote for these laws tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-01-0.u7470	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 2 August 2014 starting at 9.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you very much.
