ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8588	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will try briefly to explain, or explain, what this bill is about. I'm going to have to go back to the beginning, which is February 2, 2010, when a contract was signed to obtain or to make seven million cards for our insurance companies, at a price of 5.16 euros without VAT. You know when she was 2010. It's 2014, and none of it's been done. We came into a situation two months ago, when we barely avoided the parties or parties that were obliged to draw up these cards and implement everything that was concluded by the contract, came with a warning that they would file a complaint and would have to collect those commitments that existed in the contract, i.e. they would have to charge about six million euros on the basis of contracts they had and based on what they had done so far. And what have they done so far? They, referring to the 2010 contract, acquired the repromaterial, the necessary technique, able to fit in and make about a million and 150 thousand cards. The cost of all this is about six million euros, and everything in the contract is not respected. For that reason, we're going to see what we can do. Because they can sue us, they can block our account, they can take down six million euros, and they can do it by law, and they can do it on the basis of a contract that's closed. I will inform you what we have managed to do from this situation: not to file a lawsuit; not to block our account; not to take down six million euros to which we were entitled; that instead of what we had, we get a million and 200,000 cards free of charge for the most vulnerable social part of our population; at a price of 5.16 euros, starting in 2010, we have reached a price of 2.96 euros. Let me remind you that four contract annexes have been made so far to extend these terms, but nothing has been done in the meantime. So this price is going to be much less. It saves itself from 5.16 to 2.96 minus million and 200,000 cards that we give to the most socially endangered. That's the point everyone needs to know. The deal is that this price of 2.96, when it starts, let's see if it's even lower and no one makes money on that card. Citizens will just pay as much as the price of making that card real, with nothing. Let's see what we can get with this card and get out of that card the maximum that exists for our patients, for our health system and for our entire state. What guarantees this card is a better insight and control of the payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance, a reduction of the abuse of all spending in the health care process, the achievement of the maximum security of personal data of the insured persons, a better insight of the healthcare provider during the treatment of insured persons and a greater ability to control the work of the physician. It's just part of what we're going to get. What next? What are our savings related to these cards? With these cards, we took the analysis to do, so that we wouldn't be doing analysis, what we get, what we lose. Here's what we can get. It is that each year the Republic Fund replaces about 2.2 paper books because of the necessary data changes in the book. It is a change of compulsory contributions, termination of employment or completion of education, change of address, last name, added part for overu stamps. Every year, the Republic Fund spends about 6.5 million stamps on the overa. The total cost of the Republic Fund for the replacement of paper books and stamps is about 45 million dinars, and the introduction of a new health insurance card will no longer cost. It will also be a huge savings for employers because each year the process of the stamps costs close to 400 million dinars. Then we went on - in the number of insurance carriers and members of their families, which is 3 million 480 thousand, minimum, or the number of overs that go annually. That's two overtures, because that's when the stamps change. We went on time to spend that 10 minutes is the minimum of what we spend there, then the number of hours, then the average gross payment, and all of these are the parameters we've been looking at that we can save on. We have an agreement to implement them by the end of 2016 and to replace all cards in the health system of the Republic of Serbia, because we want everyone to be able to plan their budget as much as anyone thinks, but those four hundred, four hundred and some dinars as much as that book, to give people enough time to plan that expense to replace that bookbook, not counting on the million and 200 thousand cards that we give to the social...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8589	Minister, one suggestion. They're asking MPs for a microphone to install.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8590	... which we will give to the most socially endangered. So that would be the shortest thing about this bill. History of how it went and what it was that we managed to do to act out of what we found and what we were forced to do, that is, by preventing that lawsuit and blocking accounts and by taking down money. Of course, that is where all the factors that you all know are going, there is a binding and electronic recipe and everything we seek, that is to approach the system and the countries of the environment, and the countries of the EU that have this long ago, Slovenia since 2000, means, and all the other countries that exist in this or similar system. Well, that's briefly what I think is the essence of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8591	Thank you. Is there any word from the committees in charge? I have to take a physical look like this because a lot of people already signed up. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? We've already got reports. The first is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8592	Dear President, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, of course, the NS parliamentary group will support your proposal. I'm an MP who rarely praises the ministers, but I must commend you honestly for all this engagement you've shown since the election as Minister of Health. What we expect from you specifically today in response, Mr. Minister, when it comes to this topic is above all, you told us that the contract was concluded on 7 February 2010. Obviously, this contract with the company where there were 5.16 euros for one card is unfavourable, and are there elements to say one bigger or less corruption, and have the competent state authorities set out to investigate this contract, because it is illogical for anyone who listens and now in TV transmissions and your and my exposure if one card in 2010 was 5.16 euros, and now you have managed to download to 2.96 euros you see a huge difference? The same firm so how could it be cheaper now, and who signed such a harmful contract for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What I would also like to ask you, that is, you mentioned that the citizens of Serbia, or the ministry, will then distribute to the most vulnerable citizens of Serbia a million and 200,000 cards. I would like you to explain to us later only by what criteria will they be divided and which group, will it go through the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, through the Centre for Social Work in Local Self-Government, but I simply think that the citizens of Serbia deserve to know what are the clear criteria for these millions and 200,000 citizens? Also, what we heard from you, the replacement itself will individually amount to 400 dinars. At today's rate of 400 dinars is about 3.2 euros, which, when taken away from the total number of health insurance companies in Serbia, is a very significant sum. There are six million leftovers, and you can see how serious and significant the amount that citizens will pay through this project alone to replace health books by the end of 2016. What I would also ask you, Mr. Minister, which is what I was saying and when some other ministers sat down and explained some other drafts of the law, is one of the procedures that we have in general, and if in health and in other areas, and if this replacement health book is simply going to go in that direction to reduce red tape, it's going to mean a lot, not to mention famous cases of only families working in private companies, such as the procedure is exhausting so that they can exercise their rights. I would take the opportunity to simply ask you for another population, and these are health insurance companies that are provided through agriculture. It's one group that unfortunately doesn't have its own, let's say, prominent representatives here in parliament don't even have unions, which have huge problems. I will remind you and I will ask you for this period by the end of 2016 to try to propose to this home changes in the insurance of farmers. Why am I telling you this? One piece of information is frantic, Mr. Minister, that today every other insurance officer living in a registered land does not have a health book. That's the information that has to worry everything, especially the information that's also started me up to talk about this story, is that we've even had an attempt to kill a man in Sapac in a village PIO near Capca on July 30th of this year, where the man just got debts that amounted to over half a million dinars for his family. Why is this so important and why I want to bring this to you and to the citizens of Serbia today? Mandatory farmers' health insurance has started somewhere since 1986, from the former Yugoslavia. And then, unfortunately, until about 2003 or 2004, it was quite anarchical, and above all, those people who lived in agricultural holdings were getting into that fund, local community reference. There have been various mistakes where, for example, children who were in permanent school, students, then people who went to military service also entered this fund. What was tried to bring order is to amend the law since 2004, when it was made during the first Kostunica government, when one decision was made that was of exceptional importance, which is that if we have registered holdings, when the landlord paid all the contributions and when he verified the health book, others who were members of the registered land were able to verify the book. Unfortunately, by the arrival of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in 2008, this decision was abolished and since then all full-time citizens in one registered land had to verify their books individually. Now, Mr. Minister, if I tell you the information, and this is very important for the citizens of Serbia, that today 2014 for a full-time citizen who is provided through agriculture, insurance on an annual basis is 30,000 dinars, compulsory health insurance, plus those and pension insurance amounting to about 60,000 dinars. If you look at the situation of these people in agriculture in previous years, you come to the data, which I said at the beginning, that every other citizen in the country has an untrusted health book, and there are debts that are in local tax administrations of over 500,000 dinars for an average four-member household. What's also a matter of concern is that today, if I live in the country and I want to verify my book in my local pension insurance branch, they're asking me to verify first that I've settled my obligations for the previous years. If I haven't settled them, Mr. Minister, and I haven't used these medical services, no one can retroactively ask these people to pay their debts for something they didn't use without being able to verify the book in 2014. This is a serious problem that farmers from the Sword, Pocerina, Shumadija, Pomorava and, of course, our colleagues in Vojvodina face. These are things that your Ministry, in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs, must move more seriously in front of this Parliament to help these people, because the biggest problem will be for the state we have, I say once again, thousands of people living in the country who, unfortunately, cannot achieve even elementary health care, because they can't even verify a health book. That's my biggest reason and today's announcement, one request to you, knowing that you have the energy to run these things. I hope that in this time period, by 2016, this problem will come to an end. In any case, New Serbia's parliamentary hole will support your proposals. I hope that this question too will move very quickly and that it will come here for the plenary before the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8593	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8594	Thank you. Here's just a few details, so it doesn't go unexplained. The most socially endangered, of course, it will be the most socially endangered by official data, not by anything else but how our country has the Ministry of Labour that it has. Socially most endangered by their tables, by their characteristics they will receive these books for free. The process of replacing these books will not damage anyone in particular, i.e. patients, health workers, nor the system at all, because there is enough time and it will be determined so that once we do this thing right, that all the data in that health book is what I said, so that we do with what we're talking about, to connect this to the health information system, and that we finally have one real picture of what's going on, how it happens, and only then can we see where we are and what we're doing and whether we have any results or if we don't have it and what's even going on in that system. As far as farmers are concerned, I have to say that two or three weeks ago, because of the illogicalness that you've been talking about, we launched an initiative in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour to find the best solution, especially around farmers, whether there are half a hectare, a hectare or 10 hectares, that it has the same price. Our goal is for all people to be taken care of, to have that security, that if they happen to be able to ask for help, not to think about this. So that's already been noticed, the illogicalities that exist, and we've formed a group that's considering what would be the best solution to that. I hope that with the help of everyone... Not only say - you know, there is a problem, but to come up with solutions and good examples from the environment or from the EU, to deal with other people's experiences as soon as possible, so I hope it will be. That's one of our priorities. They were in one zone that was there, but it has to be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8595	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8596	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Health Insurance Act. For our citizens, this is an extremely important problem and many are interested in what we are going to agree today and what it is to achieve with these changes. Namely, as you said, the 2011 Law has set a three-year deadline for the replacement of health books. Now this deadline is precise and it is December 31st, 2016. There was an opinion that without an electronic health book, we cannot take a step forward in the information electronic system, and I would say that without a strong and regulated information system, we cannot introduce an electronic health book, so I would just point out what it means and predicts the introduction of an electronic health book. What is certainly most important for both patients and employees is the integration of health institutions of the Republic Health Insurance and Pharmacy Institute, which will make it easier to work both for employees and for patients who will be able to achieve their rights more easily and more quickly. Of course, there is an electronic recipe, because it also provides for the delivery of prescriptions from the selected doctor to all pharmacy institutions where the patient will be able to pick up his treatment without coming to the selected doctor, which will mean that the time to wait is much shorter, and the doctor chosen can only be used to correct the treatment. There is savings both in time and in paper, and especially in medicines, greater control of prescribed and raised therapy. Indeed, it is not a small figure, as 100m euros are projected on an annual basis. There is also the EU's demand for reform of the health system and greater accessibility of this particular health system to patients, even easier to exercise patients' rights. I would repeat once again what you said about the public, because there are great dilemmas, that the card will not contain information about provided health services at the health institution, nor can there be data on prescribed recipes or other insurance obligations. That would be what benefit is in the very card we're going to be, and what are the problems we're facing? Well, first of all, I'd point out the incomplete and missing information system. These solutions are expected in 2014 and by the end of 2015. The introduction of an information system into a healthcare institution was supported by the DILS project, the project of providing improved services at local level with support financed from the World Bank loan, with the support of the Ministry of Health. It's got one piece of equipment. Education has been done in health institutions, and much remains unfinished. All that remains to be found is donation medical facilities or local health facilities. Today we have the situation that it is necessary to regulate the information system completely, to complete the start, because delays are obvious, and it is necessary, and that is our recommendation in adopting future legal solutions to highlight the security of the funds to implement the envisaged programmes, and to enforce the laws because it is precisely the economic situation and the biggest problem in the delay of the laws. Another problem would be the price of an electronic health card right now. We heard it's about 400 dinars, maybe smaller. The poorest citizens, about 1.2 million, will receive a free health book. It is mainly those citizens who exercise the right to health care under Article 22. The Serbian Renewal Movement expects a fundamental reform of the health system aimed at providing all citizens with the possibility of health insurance so that they can use health care in the right way. Members of the SPS and DHSS believe that much greater problems than the price of an electronic card are systemic failures. We expect that they will be corrected, and we look forward to the emphasis in the Health Insurance Development Strategy by 2020 – general insurance towards the goal should be pursued, which for categories which are unable to pay for health insurance contributions, is done by another entity, such as the state budget, i.e. the Ministry of Finance as the manager of budget funds. In fact, whether problems will arise in obtaining an electronic health card and health insurance and other citizens, other than those mentioned in Article 22. The Health Insurance Act, for which the State will provide, i.e. that there are other vulnerable groups? In fact, 400,000 citizens, which is 5.5% of the population, have no health insurance. What do we do with them? Electronic health card and health insurance can only wish for a category of population to be held as agricultural health insurance. We believe that there are major system failures and they need to be resolved as soon as possible, because everyone who is unemployed and has few countries, although not engaged in agriculture, is the largest number of them and is now in the category of agricultural health insurance. Because of the economic situation itself, accounts have accumulated and these citizens have not been able to use health care. Generally, when examinations and necessary therapy were required and other services were sought in private health practice, and they remain in debt longer. What's going to happen to these citizens? Just in comparison, when this Electronic Health Card Act was adopted in 2011, the state offered a solution for them. In the first group, for these agricultural insurance companies, it was a debt reprogramme. They were obliged to pay their contributions quarterly in 2012, 2013 and 2014, thus obtaining the solutions in 2015 when the commitments are met. A small number of farmers have just used this solution, i.e. A small number and it is a seemingly short-term service, because no actual debt is written off, the interest that is being accumulated, and health care has not been used. So they should pay for something they didn't use. A similar problem is with the second option offered by the state, which is the category of starting the payment of contributions. The interest goes, and the citizens only pay the principal. However, here I would refer to one third category, and we believe that the greatest illogicalness and the current problem are citizens with agricultural pensions. It's mostly about women in charge of retirement contributions, and they've had health insurance for years through a husband who's been in a working relationship. This way, established health insurance has been going on for 30 years. Only last year, when there was a connection between the PIO Fund and the Republic Health Insurance Institute, debt and interest were established for health insurance, and believe it or not, this decision has been applied since 01.01.1986, meaning almost 30 years. The truth is that since then there has been no signed application by these citizens, i.e. A citizen, an individual, even most of them didn't know it was due. It's just that it was the PIO fund policy. However, the solutions came about the need to pay off the PIO fund. Citizens wondered what it was about, how someone without their knowledge and consent could commit them to pay their pension, which also withdrew the fact that they were in charge of pensions, duties and health insurance. Citizens' submissions for pension insurance were also rejected by second-degree commissions, and we need to apply these rules as soon as possible. It is clear that a key and essential reform of the health system is necessary. In the voting day, SPO-DHSS MPs will vote in favour of amending the Health Insurance Act, extending the health card to 2016, because we believe that until then we need to overcome these problems that we are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8597	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8598	The Honorable Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of Health, representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the World Health Organization, on the basis of its specific criteria, has four models of the health insurance system. Always in previous times and to this day, the question arises – what is the best model? What are the models of the health insurance system? Bismarkov, Beveridžev, Semashkov and entrepreneurs, that is, private. Based on what postulates does the World Health Organization share health insurance systems in these four models? These are the following postulates: on the basis of funding, based on governance, decision-making on insurance rights and obligations, based on the generalisation of the population, based on solidarity, which is both significant and based on the planning of further development of the health insurance system. Bismark's system practically implies funding based on contributions in terms of a certain percentage of employees, and we practically have two categories. It's employers and insurance employees. Who's in that steering position? These are the holders of these insurance – employees, employers who make contracts with organisations that provide certain health services. Based on research into the European health consumer index for the last 14 years, with one restriction, Bismark's health insurance system is recommended. On this scale, the quality of health care, which practically covers 35 European countries, is the first place in the Netherlands with its 850 points, and as we know and how we faced that truth, we are in the last place with 451 points. Holland has Bismark's health insurance system. In order to somehow increase the quality of their health services and to reduce costs, they are within their mandatory health insurance, which implies the comprehensiveness of the population and practically implies a maximum degree of intergenerational solidarity, regardless of which they are the best in Europe, as regards health care, in order to reduce the pressure on their Health Insurance Fund, they excluded a certain category of their insurance companies from the mandatory health insurance system. It's all those who have, it's the 2002 data, more than 31,000 euros in annual earnings. They all practically enter one parallel or alternative form of supplementary insurance and practically this parallel or supplementary vision of voluntary insurance covers all outpatient services and short-term hospitalisation. As representatives of Bizmark's health insurance system, Germany is still present in the immediate, or closer to our environment, Slovenia. Unlike this Bismark insurance system, Beverly's health insurance system is financed from the budget. Representatives are the United Kingdom and certain small countries that have extremely great economic power, and that is where Denmark and Norway are primarily thought. We also have, in practice, one comprehensive approach to the population, the same maximum intergenerational solidarity represented, but unlike Bizmark's system in the Beveridz system, as far as management is concerned, all that management function of waste in the country and its certain organs. The Semamack system is part of the Beveridz system and is related to Eastern European countries that had in their previous development a socialist system of arrangements and which did not recognise private health insurance systems. An enterprise or private health insurance fund is most manifested in the form of U.S. health insurance. It is practically based on a private initiative, on volunteering, and of course we do not have all the comprehensive system associated with the population. Of course, solidarity is not present. Employers at the highest percentage in the United States have so-called The primary and secondary plan where the complete system of health insurance or part-time insurance covers employees, their employees, and their families. But what's the problem with this corporate system? In the United States, 16% of the population, it's somewhere around 50 million people are not insured. So the big problem came up and the problem with the health insurance system was the subject of the latest presidential campaigns in the United States. As a result of this non-solidarity, in September 2009, the U.S. Congress's House of Representatives with a close majority passed the Health System Change Act, so that on 22 March 2010, the Senate decided on a new law on human health protection in the United States. So since 2010, for the first time in the history of the United States, we have one general coverage of the population, as far as health care is concerned. We can see from this that practically those who have had the dominant private health insurance system are moving towards some degree of socialization. What's the best system? It's hard to say. What I said earlier, based on the results of 2013 and the report of the European health consumer index in the first place, is the Netherlands. The Netherlands has this Bismark health insurance system, where above a certain annual income is excluded, from the opportunity, in their population, 25% of the population who earn more than 31,000 euros annually. And they practically, in order to disburse the health insurance fund, which encounters two huge problems, have to solve it this way. What are the basic problems in today’s health insurance system? It's the first demographic disorder, the population old. The percentage of people over 65 gets bigger and bigger, and absolutely with it, the presses on health insurance funds are growing. On the other hand, it's increasing so-called. In theoretical literature, moral hazat. What is moral gambling? It is the immoral behavior of individuals in relation to the possible costs of health care, as the individual does not pay out of his pocket but pays for a particular health insurance company. In recent years, the last ten years have begun with the introduction, and this started in Singapore, with the introduction of appropriate savings medical bills. What does that mean? The individual does not have compulsory insurance but practically saves, so in case the need for a particular medical service arises, he pays that health care service based on that account. But if there is a risk of a long-term illness, based on that individual savings medical account, these costs can't be refunded properly. So these medical savings accounts are combined with some other health insurance systems. I wanted to give a brief theoretical representation for health systems, where we had a question in the past, which is the best health care system? Should Serbia change its health insurance system and be the Beverly's system? There's no clear and accurate answer. We have this recommendation, as I said, by the European health consumer index that maybe it's a mild advantage of Bismark's system. We faced our reality, and we said it openly and openly. As for our health care, we are in the last place, based on research into the European Health Consumer Index. The Executive Director of this project, Mr. Arne Bjomberg, has been in our country several times, and as I have heard, should become an adviser or one of the health ministry's advisers. Also, Mr. Johan Her Quist, president of an independent private company in Sweden, was also our guest, and in contact with these people, we have seen what our guidelines for the development of the entire health care system are, at the same time, a part called the health insurance system. If we see what indicators are worth a certain health care system, then we can safely say what we need to change. This European Health Consumer Index has 48 indicators that define the health system of certain European countries and are grouped into six groups. These 48 indicators are defined on the basis of 1700 questions, 1700 answers and 1700 estimates that have their numerical value. We have a ranking of the health care system in Europe, based on this numerical score. The first group of these indicators are patients' rights and information. What is Europe asking of us? Simply put, it requires: a patient seeking a particular health care service should have the possibility that if he is to go to a certain hospital online, to come, to enter the site of that hospital, if it is a surgical intervention to see how much surgery he has on the annual level, what is the outcome of the treatment. There's a demand for transparency and publicity. So, first group, real patient information. Second group, access to treatment. These are those famous waiting lists. Third group, treatment outcome. The outcome of being a particular health institution public and transparent. The fourth group, the range and availability of medical services. The fifth group, the pharmaceuticals available to us for the treatment of certain diseases and the sixth group, which was introduced in 2013, is a prevention from its eight indicators. Based on what I've said, one word is going through all these groups - the public. Publicity or transparency. That's what we're asked to do. What we are doing, what the Ministry of Health is doing and we are trying together with the Ministry of Health to monitor, is that what Europe is asking us to do is we are starting to implement in our terms. The Republic Health Insurance Fund has given a work plan and has given some plans to be implemented this year. For the first time, we are now meeting with a vision and plans to be met by the end of 2014. It is something that is absolutely in line with all this previous Europe is asking of us. At the beginning of the year, the RFO adopted the Health Insurance Development Strategy by 2020. The Alliance for Human Rights, the fight against corruption and healthcare fraud has been formed. The Council for European Integration and Harmonization of our Health Insurance is formed with the European one. These are some longer-term plans. What is related by the end of this year are the introduction of an electronic recipe, electronic instruction, electronic appointment of the examination, electronic health records and electronic consultation of doctors. Pharmacotherapeutic protocols should be established for the treatment of 200 diseases at primary healthcare level. A new model of captainship, meaning financing or a new model of captainship at the primary level of health care. As for hospital financing, the health budget of the Republic of Serbia is two billion euros. Of that 60%, or one billion and 200 million wastes on hospital treatment. To rationalise this, a new mechanism is being introduced to finance hospital treatment called diagnostic related groups. The education of our doctors, do we still send patients, small or large, abroad? Isn't it cheaper to hire these foreign experts to come here and educate our younger doctors? The term digital hospital is being introduced. This practically implies what the European Health Consumer Index requires of us. Practically, we're on one path where we need everything that's been wrong before, to leave behind. I treat this as the beginning of a comprehensive reform of the health system of the Republic of Serbia. The SDPS parliamentary club in voting day will vote to change this member. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8599	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8600	I would like to thank Madam Chairman, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. Today we are talking about an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which, by emergency procedure, came to the Republic's parliament and a small crackdown. This is not a law that comes in order of urgency, so what is meant to be done is extremely and out of the ordinary procedure, we are proving in the Republic Parliament that it can become an easy rule, so that it should change the way the documents from the government come to the Republic Parliament, because there is no need to keep saying that something is an emergency procedure, so vote it out to be in regular procedure, so it no longer goes by emergency procedure. This bill requires that one member be changed in the current Health Insurance Act where time is extended to verify health books and is said to be replaced by the words “31. December 2016’. It's something that should go undiscussed, by automation, because only a little shift in the deadline for making and implementing a decision that has entered the law. Since it is evident that the majority of the assembly will adopt this, and there is no other way to adopt it, because in 2014 it stands out in a few months and it is impossible to replace the health books with new books in two months, so just so that we can take over power, we could not do it, because for citizens, I will explain what an electronic health book is, what it is, and what it is, an electronic recipe and what it is, is it just some innovation from the West and the EU's conditions on the road to EU accession, one of the conditions that we have to meet or really gives some benefit. So, all of you, dear and respected Serbian citizens, are aware that when you go to the doctor's office, you take out your file, you go to the doctor's office, he fills out that chart after the checkup, fills out the prescriptions, and then you go to the pharmacy and you pick up your prescriptions and the treatment your doctor prescribed. In the meantime, you have to look after and take care that your health book is certified, signed and stamped, or stamped, so they call it in the people, because without it you won't be able to get into the doctor's office or you'll be able to, but you have to pay for the full amount of examination, laboratory analysis, diagnostic methods and everything that's in your healing process to be done. So, it is necessary that it be a valid certified document, and that overa in translation means that either the state instead of an employer or an employer depending on the legal basis of health insurance paid contributions that were 12.5% up to three months ago, it is now 10.5% because the decision of the National Assembly has reduced 2% to the Republic Fund i.e. Serbia's health from contributions and transferred to the Pension Fund, but I'll do that later, a few sentences. That overa guarantees that you are the i.e. someone for you or your employer paid contributions and that you have the right to use the money of the Republic Fund for your healing and all that you need in the healing process. It was started in 2006 when some of the health institutions in the RS started in 2006 when it came to the process of commuting the health care institutions, there was the former minister's lady, and these were famous dils programs one, two, three, I don't know how many of them there were, where with the help of the European community's money, these computer equipment was purchased and refurbished and purchased and equipped to be able to move to a higher level of communication in health, one higher level of work aimed at saving time and saving money, that all of this I said was that the procedure when you went to the doctor's office, so that there are no charts, that there are no papers, that there are no recipes, that there is one card as a new ID card, which is now plastic with the chip, where you're going to end everything you're going to end with that card. What do you get? If we leave the office, avoid wasting time writing medical records, avoid wasting time writing prescriptions, avoid duplication of work, avoid your harassment and waiting while the doctor fills and wastes time especially what is important and all the time that will not be spent on writing and administration, the doctor can devote himself to the patient, because now we are all aware when we go to the doctor to spend two-thirds of the time scheduled for our observation writing those records and one-third to listen to us, measure the pressure or hear our troubles, which is why we came to the doctor. That's what an electronic chart is for, it's to avoid bullying both doctors and nurses, on the one hand, and on the other hand to get more time to examine and treat patients. That's a condition. It's an electronic cardboard benefit. On the other hand, when you go to your pharmacist to take your medicine, there is no danger of losing, abuse the recipe, but simply by reading your bar code on the book, the pharmacist enters your electronic records, see which therapy is prescribed for you and you get the cure. That's the second advantage. What does it look like by the Republic Fund? There are no rows, waiting, and nervousness at the medical records. There are so-called. central servers, where all patients, i.e. All insurance companies have their own data, where they have data on the payment of contributions and where you automatically receive information that you have been paid contributions and no more going to local branches. It saves time. Save energy, avoid anxiety. What is very important – the Health Fund is free to do the job for which it is paid. It is an analysis, a way of funding, the finding of new benefits for patients and the monitoring of the flow of state money that is reflected in the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. It is the basic function of the Republic Fund, not to hit stamps and sign stamps, but to monitor how Republic money is spent, how insurance money is spent. It's our money used for our treatment. What do we have now? We now have to get into this problem in 2006. In 2008, Mr. Minister, you have bad information from your associates, so I'd like to ask you to come in with accurate data in the future, so in 2008, a tender for the purchase of electronic cards was launched. For your information, since I can see that he was reacting to incomplete information by a colleague, that tender was won by the Banknote Office. So there couldn't have been any malfeasance. Three or four contract annexes have been made since 2008. Yes, it is true that the price was 5.16 euros, but in the annexes of the contract stands, and they are still being applied, they are not changed, so as the price of raw materials, inputs, plastics, chips falls, so the price of the card to the Republic Fund will also fall. In the first half of 2010, the Banknote Agency notified the Republic Fund and the Ministry, I can't remember the date now, but there is a minister who can confirm whether this is true or not, and said it could be taken over. But we have one problem. Since it was in the euro, the Fund cannot work with the euro, it is working with the dinars and it took a little longer for the government to make a decision and that is the famous price of 500 dinars, which is the government's decision of 2011 or 2012, it doesn't matter. Only then could the Fund in its dynamics, and dynamics said that the view town for the application of the electronic card would be Valjevo, because it's a medium-sized branch. There are three types of branches in the Republic of Serbia: small, medium and large branches. I assume you know that large branches are cities where clinical centres are due to the volume of work, which is Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. It's four big branches. Valjevo had a network system up until then. So, the stories that health care is unable to accept a new electronic card, that it cannot enter this new project to facilitate work in the office, are not correct. Absolutely all health care facilities, maybe some infirmary doesn't have a computer, but these computers aren't as expensive as they are now, they're even extremely cheap, so it's not a expense. The only cost to pay for the introduction of these cards, besides cards, are readers who, believe it or not, cost 60,000 euros for the whole territory, which is a meaningless sum if we go from what money the Republic Health Insurance Fund has. So those cards were supposed to be in Valjev first. In 2013 the pilot project started in Valjevo for a simple reason to see if there are shortcomings, what happens in real life when it is carried out in action. Of the 100,000 scheduled, 600 cards were distributed, which is inconceivable. Word is, it's going to be harassment for insurance when they take out the cards. That's not true. It can come to your home address, like any plastic card you get from the bank with that code, because yours, i.e. Our data is in the central database of the Republic Fund and it just needs to be personalized, as they say, and that you get it at home. No bullying. What kind of benefits are they when we introduce them? They say 60% of Fund workers will be able to do what they're paid to do, not verify cards. People won't be harassed. What are the savings? Mr. Minister said it was 35 to 45 million spent annually on exchange cards, those we have, these books. And plus one or two to three million euros, because we won't pay through insurance all those recipes, instructions, charts, used in Serbian health care. That's the so-called. paper gallery or paper confection, whatever those people call it. So there are no more charters in use. And that's an advantage. That's what people need to know. Now we hear the new price will be 400 dinars. All right, according to the contract, the price of the instructions goes down, so it's gonna fall. And I'm now asking the Ministry of Health -- the finance minister three months ago in this room convinced us that they were made by the involvement of the Republic Fund and the Ministry of Health in the rational spending of money. I would ask that when we talk about state and health money, we don't talk about savings. We're talking rational spending. Saving means we didn't do something. We need that money, as responsible people, to rationally spend so that we can expand the scope of the insurance, so that we can lift the drug lists, so that we can end the participation. It's a rational waste. What kind of health savings? We can only behave more economically. At that time, it is said that 300m euros, or 34 or 35 billion savings, that there is no need for health care to use money anymore, there are stenograms, that it goes where it needs to go, it is for pensions this time, although it does not matter where it goes, it is spent within the Republic of Serbia and that if there is a need for a republican budget to intervene and supplement it. Now I ask – why do insurance companies who pay for insurance and who ask for health care services have to pay extra for the card? Don't they pay for it with their oscillation? Why doesn't the Fund pay the card? On the committee, your secretary of state said it was the National Bank, i.e. The banknote-making office, donated to the Fund and the Ministry 1.2 million cards that should only be personalized. At the same time, respected colleagues, there are 500 million dinars in the budget of the Republic Fund in the position of paying these cards for 2014. This means, if we now have a decision by the Ministry, we hire those 500 million dinars and we print in the Banknote Office, because there's no need to call a new tender, it's a state-run reference institution that prints money, which is best done, which can do it right now, there's no tender, this tender is over, which works at the lowest price because the prices of the imput have fallen, so we'll have that if and by your political decision the Serbian citizens have to pay extra for these cards, we'll have two and a half million insurance companies who won't pay. In that case, we'll cover all pensioners, socially endangered, I hear we'll finally get that social ticket, so everyone who has a social card gets free of charge. Although, I think and represent the position of my parliamentary group that it must be free. It's the one who gives insurance and insurance services how they're going to organize. That shouldn't be an extra cost. That can't be paid extra. Why do we pay the same thing twice? There's no reason to do that. I expect that, when we talk about details, the ministry will consider our amendment, because this is about all of us, our fellow citizens, and finally starts to deal with, here, a colleague mentioned the DRG group, the diagnostic related group. We need to introduce this, but we can't introduce it in payment mode, so I don't bother my fellow citizens, Serbian citizens, to explain to them how Serbian health works, that we're working on buying out a plan not to pay an effective service, we can't do that when, say, one simple information for diagnostic related groups we have a sick day that's the average value of everything that's being spent on a patient who's lying in the hospital and the usual procedure. We have a steady day at the skin clinic, neurology, the infectious clinic, and cardiosurgery, which is impossible. It's more expensive here, because there are more expensive impulses, and we want to come in here and pay by service with a sick day like this, then we're going to make our healthcare facilities go to waste. They won't be able to bear that financial cost, because they don't have a battery, they don't have any additional work to draw funds from, the only means it's the Republic Health Insurance Fund. We gave up, and now I'm going to repeat that sentence I spoke three months ago, we gave up three hundred million euros in health care, because we're told that everything's going to be okay, and we have a problem in low-inhabited places, especially south of Sava and Danube, where we don't have enough doctors, where we can't cover the whole territory, and instead of hiring money on that side to increase our capacities and hire people who sit on our desks, we don't do it first, then we're making a law that gives us the opportunity to send people about their cows and their sleeves, about their spending, and to finance their own specialisation, specializing how anyone wants and has the money to pay cardio, vascular surgery, anaesthesiology, everything that's deficiting, and here is the story that this is going to give young people a chance to specialize. Yes, in deficits, not in all branches, so please seriously consider our suggestions. It's normal to vote against if you don't support our amendment. Your bill says by 2016 it should be done, I think it's too long a period. All you have to do is personalize the cards, the Fund can do it without harassing people and getting people into the Fund. What your associates need to do, Mr. Minister, is to do a unique programme for health records, because in the country of Serbia we now have that each institution has tenderly ordered its appearance of a health chart, it must be a uniform, with levels of availability and authority whether it is on the primary, secondary and territorial level and should be given to work by the Fund, because in 2009, it received more than 100 electronic engineers because of what needs to be done now. The introduction of an electronic health card into the Fund has both brains and associates who can do it. Equipment, servers, parent servers, I know about Nis, and you know about your cities have been standing for four years at the Institute of Public Health. Can it be networked? Yeah, well, we're in the middle of something right now, so we go to Google, and we can't have the Fund and the infirmary networking into one server, just in time for business. Although there are people here, I'm a dentist, who knows a lot better electronics than I do, that I'm not talking about maybe putting it on a personal map, but well, that depends on the level of availability of confidential data, and I don't want to go into it and discuss it. So that's what you should do and end it by 2015 with respect to our amendment, which is where we expect colleagues to support it for free, let's not let, dear colleagues, that people pay double, pay for health insurance...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8601	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8602	Now they're paying for the change of cards. This goes to the burden of the Republic Fund i.e. to the burden of budgets filled with citizens of Serbia. With the hope that you will consider our amendment I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8603	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word has been given by the MP, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8604	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, dear colleague Professor Djukic, Professor Vekic, Dr Vicko, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today we are talking and changing the deadline for replacing health books and it is nothing new in Serbia. Unfortunately, the Serbian administration is very slow and we have changed in this parliament and the validity of passports and the validity of ID cards, but what I have voiced on the Committee on Health and Family, and even now in this plenary session, that is, I will read to you, it is a harsh violation of the law that this Assembly has passed. Namely, the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, Official Messenger No 57/11, pursuant to Article 52 of this Act, was obliged to replace, no later than three years after the date of entry into force of this Act, the provisions on insurance, as well as special instruments for the use of healthcare provided for in Articles 112 and 2 of this Act with a health card. The law, my dear gentlemen and friends, was brought to the session of the National Assembly on July 28, 2011. It was published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia on 1 August 2011, which entered into force on 9 August 2011, since it started to run three years and on 9 August 2014, the deadline for replacing the insurance documents has expired. For the first time in Serbia, the legislative authority has been caught breaking its own laws. I would like to ask the first question of the President of Parliament, the President-in-Office, what was more important, that in August of the month you did not schedule a session, given that I received information from the Ministry of Health that they had sent amendments to the law in time, that I had received information from the Director of the Republic Fund that the request to extend this deadline had been sent in time, why did the President of Parliament not schedule the session at the time so that we would not violate the laws that we had passed? What kind of message are we sending to the citizens? The legislative body, the Serbian Parliament, has only violated its laws. We're three or four weeks in a legal offense. Is someone gonna answer for that? One very specific question, I quote, and I repeat that on 9 August 2014, we should have had the last deadline for replacing health books. I repeat, it wouldn't be a problem, we changed passports and ID cards, but why didn't you schedule a session on August 1, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, but you waited for it to come...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8605	Mr. Milisavlevich, will you let me just answer? So he doesn't schedule a president of the National Assembly, schedules a government and says "Article 250." - at an extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly shall work on the pre-specified agenda submitted by the applicant for holding an emergency session. The order to consider the agenda item cannot be changed without the agreement of the proposing representative at whose request the extraordinary sitting is scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8606	The Honorable Chairman, you and I have been in parliament a little longer and you know that 84 MPs can always sign a session, they don't have to wait for a cabinet session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8607	So the president can't do it again. You have referred a question to the President of Parliament or the President of Parliament why she has not failed. He can't schedule a parliament speaker, they can schedule either the government or 84 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8608	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the question...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8609	I apologize for proposing 84 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8610	Once again, I ask the question, since we are first in a situation that our legislative system has not registered, which is that the legislative body that passed the laws has entered into violation of these laws. These gentlemen here are not guilty. As an opposition, I'm going to say they're not to blame. You have to say who's to blame? So someone in parliament, the legislative body, didn't schedule it on time, but come on, I guess that'll be a theme in the next few weeks that's coming. I want to go back to the subject of replacing health books and despite this first introduction and the recorded violation of the law that we passed in 2011, the second question that goes on about health books, a year and a half ago we had an announcement when the Minister of Health was Mrs. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, you weren't the minister at the time, but the Director-General of the Republic Fund was Professor Babic, and then it was announced that the health book would cost more than 500 and some dinars, that was something 5.2 euros, which was now a little stronger price than 500 dinars, which is the price that is now significantly lower, now registers a price of 400 dinars. This seems very unserious, I think the state is sending a bad signal back to the citizens. That's when it took 500 dinars, now it takes 400, at the end of what you give, just to give something to get us some money in that Republic Fund. I am sending a message on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, let the citizens of Serbia, not a million and 100 thousand who will receive free medical books, but that all Serbian citizens will receive free medical books. I'm sorry that there's no one here from the Fund, since the Fund's administration boasts that it has a surplus, that it works very successfully, to tell them that those people who collect our money that we spend a month on our health insurance. If they collect that money, then it is normal for them to separate those funds and to print out those health books, not to burden the Serbians. Mr. Lonchar, you and I are probably 400 dinars, but 90% of Serbians live badly. And you and I are in one contact every day with patients and you know that 400 dinars is a big money for those citizens who have no reason to be once again in one of 400 dinars burdened to take out this health book now when I personally think that the fund is like a house that collects money every month from these citizens to issue this one medical ID and, like all banks, to send mail to all the insurance companies' home address. The topic that is much more important to me is not 400 dinars for a health book, a much more important topic for every citizen in Serbia is what Serbian citizens have of their health insurance, how many months does it go into the Fund, and what do they as insurance companies have of that health insurance? Are our insurance companies satisfied with the treatment system? Are our insurance companies and our citizens happy when they come and when someone tells them - so you don't have a guide, so when someone tells them - you should go to another hospital, and someone else's hospital and say, "Yes, you have to wait a month and a half for a specialist to examine you, perhaps then, and maybe not in two months?" Is at this stage of some health care reform, when inspections are scheduled, when you send a primary health care patient that he can't do adequate diagnostic preparation for the diagnosis, are our citizens satisfied with that? I don't think so. A colleague spoke “European Health Consumer Index” and our position on the entire list. I think the Republic Fund is one alienated formation from the health care system. Different health ministry officials have been trying and trying to make some moves, however, it has all become a concern with the Republic Fund. I believe that a citizen should know what he has from health insurance, that with his new health book or this old health book, he can, although he is from Subotica, come to Vranje and be treated, that with his health book, he can exercise his basic Constitution guaranteed the right to make a diagnosis, to provide him with health care, and not as he is now, only in emergencies. We need to enable Serbian citizens with a health book to choose who they will be treated with. If you're a good doctor, they won't go to the Director General of the Clinical Center, but they will have to have the right to go to your health book with their insurance and do it. Serbian citizens pay a substantial amount of money every month, so I ask a question on behalf of the citizens, since I'm here on behalf of them, what happens to money that if they, God forbid, don't use it, and many of our citizens don't use it, what happens? Can we make a health insurance reform, so that, as in many countries, if you don't use and you don't charge your bill, your book, and you've been paying for months, that you withdraw that money, not that the Republic Fund is one bottomless register, and that it just throws money into it and that citizens don't know what they have from that health insurance. I think it's a much bigger subject than 400 dinars. Four hundred dinars eat darkness. We're against it, it's supposed to be a free health book, but this is a bigger topic, this is a topic that makes the administration change, makes the Republic Fund serve citizens and that we need to take more care of how that money is spent. So far, that money has been spent without control and not domestic. You're almost there, but I'm telling you since I'm a 21-year-old doctor, I know that many institutions bought and spent that money from the Republic Fund unnecessarily, that they bought some appliances they didn't even know how to work, let alone work on them. It was important for them to take a commission and be satisfied and say it in their small place – here, we have a laser, we have a magnet, we have this, and basically it was a percentage, it's important that I have 10%. Unplanned money was spent on our citizens, our taxpayers. We need to create a competition, that with our health book we have the right to treat where we want, that the insurance house is fighting for the insurance company, and not like this - I don't care, I don't want to change anything, which I change, I get two billion euros every year, every year Loncar or Komićka or Milisavljevicda will pay me a month from receiving that money and there's no need to change. Dear gentlemen, we need to change on behalf of the citizens ourselves, that the insurance company, the Republic Insurance Fund, is fighting for the insurance company, to fight to secure it, to introduce another to two insurance houses, to have two, three health cards to be offered, to fight for the insurance company, and that if it is Professor. Milisavljevic is a good doctor, that you, as one of the insurance companies, are asking to make that contract with my healthcare institution and that the patient can come to me, and not like this -- whatever he's doing, whatever he's doing to you, it's radio, it doesn't matter, we're all satisfied, some money comes in, it's not bad enough, it's not so bad, we've got some other stuff. Unfortunately, the health care system in Serbia is not working. I hope you will have the courage to get more seriously into the health care reform process, and this very serious field, which is health insurance that taboo is the topic of generation. For the last 20 or 30 years, it's a gray zone. There's a vaccine affair out of that gray zone that hasn't been solved yet. Many coins are used incorrectly from this gray zone. I think we need to do this much more transparently and clearly to do it for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. When we talk about the health book, there were a lot of comments on social networks. I'll pass on, since I'm more than actively using Twitter, that people have suggested that there's a possibility that on ID chips, the same data is put in place. Is it necessary to make double expenses or is that impossible? That's another question for you. The second question asked by Serbian citizens is how to allow insurance to be made if a medical error is made or his health is worsened during treatment, how does the insurance house compensate our citizens who have suffered damage? You've had almost different situations where you've had to act and send health inspections to some medical institutions. Dear Minister, here's a tip. Although it comes from the opposition, I don't think it's bad. It is necessary to establish a treatment protocol in order to enable insurance companies with their health book to demonstrate clearly that they have a clear guarantee of the state that it protects their human and patient rights, to create a treatment protocol. When you make a treatment protocol, you say – Serbian citizens, for your health insurance you have it, and that, a health care package of health care services is being looked at in these and these things, you can be treated in these and these institutions and treatment protocols guarantee that I am a patient and his lawyer has steps on the paper whether or not someone has committed a breach, whether it is an ORL area where you come if it is an infection of the throat or if it is an operation of the tonsil or if it is a middle ear burning, that clearly knows the steps and procedures from getting into the hospital until the exit and that such a same protocol is respected from Saturday to Vranja. Serbia does not have it and many medical mistakes remain wrapped in court now. It can be commented in one way or another, and in many cases the citizens are compensated and damaged for it. A colleague talked about the last place and about a lot of parameters that "European Health Consumer Index" listed in his two-year report, so I ask what the Republic Fund will do with its resources to make it clear why we are the last? We are, unfortunately, the last because of many severe parameters, and this is a high degree of cardiovascular disease, a high degree of mortality from cardiovascular disease. Last time I said that, according to the Institute of Public Health, every day in Serbia, 15 of our citizens die from a myocardial infarction. What can I say about the great increase in cancer, where we are absolutely ill with the treatment of these citizens, that they do not in many situations welcome air therapy, that they are suffering from an operational programme, that they are struggling to obtain a pathological remedy? These are the things that the Republic Fund and you as Minister of Health must put as the target of which Serbian citizens are the most sick and what health insurance you must do in this preventive programme in the fight for our insurance companies, for our citizens in order not to, in order to fix the rating on the "European Health Consumer Index" scale, but what is more important, to preserve the lives of these people. If the preventive checkup in women is early detection of breast cancer and preventive breast examination, let us allow all institutions in Serbia, not only Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis and Kragujevac, to have the ability to work both mammography and papanicola and others, but also to do so by the centres in Babusnica, the centres in Vrana, Ruma and other environments in our country. Like this, we close our eyes to a very difficult situation in our health care. Our nation is getting sicker. We want to go to Europe, we want to reform, but we need to understand that these are the most important parameters that suggest that we have to work more seriously. One question, both we as opposition and you as ruling parties, is that we are in favour of joining the EU. I don't know if you're following, I suppose, and I hope you're following, that now it's the current European horizon of 2020, which includes the health sector, the insurance sector. Can you treat yourself in any city, part of the EU, with that health book that Europeans are introducing? I know there's a possibility that we can, and that's why I'm initiating a meeting like this to let the citizens hear it, to hear the media, to hear you, to catch the buckle, and to show the reform of the Republic Fund right now. So, if I separate a monthly amount of money, the Republic Fund, under this EU programme, has to guarantee me that amount of money that I pay, that I can also treat myself in France. If the cost of that treatment is higher, and she is higher, the Republic Fund will cover that money that I have paid, and I will pay extra. These are the reforms Europe is doing. Let's do them, too. Let's do it in Serbia first so I can take my medical book and get it treated in Subotica. That's not possible now. Now it's only possible, citizens, to be treated in Subotica if you're from Nis, if it's urgent, you have a car accident or you have nosebleeds or a appendage attack, then the doctor won't return you. So, they're going to say, you have to have a direction, etc. I am interested in what the Republic Health Insurance Fund is and what did you, as the Ministry of Health, do in pre-accession negotiations with the European Commission, with the EU? Chapter 28 refers to the health sector. I sincerely hope that it will at least force the Republic's health administration to take more seriously the reform of the Republic Fund. This is the kind of Republic Fund Europe doesn't know. This is the kind of Republican fund that's been alienated from the citizens, the citizens don't know it. So, this is a small country in a country that spends two and a half billion euros a year, which is a very serious financial institution and which must be much more closely monitored by the ministry, and what I want to be much more closely monitored by our Assembly Committee on Health and Family and the Assembly itself, the Members of Parliament themselves... I will slowly finish my presentation, that in the last term, as chairman of the Committee on Health and Family, I was prevented from attending certain second-degree committees of the Republic Fund, although as chairman of the Committee on Health and Family at that time and as a MP, I have a legislative role, I have a representative role and I have a control role. Any MP can exercise control of your work, the work of the Republic Fund. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, we forgot to protect the institution of the Protectors of the Citizens, and that we are the People's Messengers and that we control them, not that they control us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8611	Thank you, Dr. Milosavljevic. I'm just saying, I've been tolerated enough, but from 20 minutes, you haven't been able to talk about the books and the law that's on the agenda, maybe two minutes. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8612	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1), have been broken. You have now allowed Mr Milosavljevic, although I understand the zeal of the political struggle, although I understand the zeal for some attitudes to be promoted, but you have allowed him to humiliate the dignity of the National Assembly, to do in his speech a criminal act or to humiliate or humiliate all health workers in Serbia. What does it mean to conclude that it is important for someone in Serbia to take a commission? The commission is illegal. If there is and if you have evidence that someone in Serbia has taken a commission, it is necessary to report this commission to the person who took the commission to report for a criminal offence. Hiding a crime is also a crime. If this is what the MP said wanting to give at the theatre of his speech, and there is no evidence that one in Serbia from fellow health workers, doctors, health directors, hospitals, really took a commission, at this point further humiliated one honorable profession, one human interest of doctors, doctors. He humiliated all health workers in Serbia because there is no name and last name who took the commission, who did it. We are tired of humiliating some professions and some honorable occupations because of the bad things individuals do. I'm not saying that everything in health care is ideal, I'm not saying that no one has taken a commission, but we have to say by name and by name who it is, so that not one honorable interest of a doctor, the doctor humiliates by such a political act and if he has any knowledge of who took the commission, and he's hiding something like that, he's doing a crime. I think you've been in a situation where you've had to warn a colleague about such statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8613	Time. You're right. I should have warned. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No) Thank you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Milisavljevic, you do not have the right to reply because you cannot replica the Rules of Procedure. Would you like a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8614	Dear Chairman, I think you've violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think my colleague insulted me, bringing me up in a political jargon, he twisted it out of fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8615	Mr. Milisavlevich, if I've allowed you to speak out of subject for 18 minutes, now I will not allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure and use it as a replica. I don't think I've broken a member of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8616	First of all, I think we all agree here on the state of our health system and none of us are satisfied with the state of it. We agree that he has to change for the better, because too much time has passed and we don't have much time to do it. I can't understand if we say on one side -- we're late, let's work, when we go to work, then we say why we go fast, why we go like that, but well, I hope we find some satisfying form of how to make changes and the basic thing is that they have a result. We can now look at and comment on both the system and how it is at the moment, how it was and what the vision was, how it was going to be. There's a general problem here, I'd like you to understand that. We'll have a hard time changing the system unless we have a good insight into that system. If we don't know how much it costs in our system, if our patient has no idea how much his treatment costs, then we'll have a hard time changing the system. If we're trying to make a difference, to make it better, to do it, and we're not moving from the core, if we don't start from ourselves, if we don't create, if our citizens have no idea how much money is spent on their treatment, we won't have the strength or the energy to go and do anything, because you'll have people who are against it. It's the basis for everything. In order for us to have that, we need to have an information system and we can get into it at any moment and see what's going on. I don't want to remind you how much money has been spent so far with the aim of making the information system. Here, you tell me where he is yourself. He's gone. But I'm not going back. We're working on it, and it's all done. We take credit, we take projects, we take everything, and it must contain about five items, for example. It's all done so we do three items, we have an excuse for them, they're done, but the system can't function without two other items that aren't even running. And in that case, everyone is happy, and those who gave money to those three items, they're done, and these two aren't even mentioned, they're not done, and the system isn't working. Now you need from all that's been done, because the huge money's been spent, to tie it all up. It's like having branches and now you have to put them on one tree and that makes sense. Without that, we're gonna have a hard time getting results on everything we're saying. I think that's the basis and we need to focus on it and help figure out where we are and we need to change first to change anything. Because without a foundation, we won't be able to build a house, no theoretical chance. There are various suggestions, there are excellent suggestions, but you have to have the basis for where you're going to go to implement it, and that's what I'm telling you. This information system, from which you can draw everything and know how much service it costs. As much as it costs in a state institution, as much as it costs in a private institution, and that's what I've been saying for a while now, that when a patient goes home, he needs to get a reform, not pay for something, he just needs to get a specification of how much his treatment cost. Because he's going to change his mind, he has no idea about it. He'll change his mind, sit down with his neighbors and drink coffee and wonder how much it cost him that he was two, three, five, ten days in the hospital and what was done to him. They'll look at all this differently. And so do we. We'll ask ourselves to know how much it costs. I think that's the point, to build a base from which we can move on. As for the price of health books, I just want one principle to be respected, which is how much they cost in making it to be a price. And nothing else. We don't have any other philosophy, one thing, and that's what I'm gonna stand for. The other thing, since 2010 and the other, nowhere in the contract has been mentioned that one single book is given free of charge or to go to the burden of the budget. It wasn't mentioned anywhere, in any contract, in any annex. And we know when it is, how it's signed and everything else. As for ID cards and a proposal to go to ID cards, I have to remind you that underage people don't have ID cards, that we still have people with paper ID cards, and that it's a special system that exists in the MUP, and then we have that conflict that can still get into privacy, or the database that you can have. It's not real, it's not possible, it's not real. You mentioned a few countries in Europe, but which are the founders of the EU, which are members from the very beginning, is currently in the system that there is an electronic card, on the one hand, that electronic card is the chip that applies to their country, and on the other hand that applies to the EU system. It exists in a few countries, but I'm saying, these are countries that are far ahead of us, which are more developed, which have a built-up system. If we don't focus on our options, on the situation we're in, and everything, I don't see which one of us would like to make it possible for all of us to talk about what we're talking about, to get it, but I'm asking you one thing, when we have such suggestions, let's give examples of where it is. Just where it already exists, where it has come to life, and where it is good practice, but I'm saying, try to compare it with countries with similar population, with similar development and with the budget that exists. What would be the reason for everything he can from the budget, anything he can from the Fund not to go? No one would be happier than us. That's our goal. But we have to be realistic. That's one thing. The second thing, you keep mentioning the Fund, the alienated center and everything. Last time I said it and now I'm saying, the Fund can't be a estranged center and the Fund can't make a single decision without the Ministry of Health. That's the law, not because someone wants it or whatever. Please appreciate that. Therefore, the Fund can have good ideas, suggestions, it can have everything, but it will have to wait for the decision of the Ministry of Health. Now I'm telling you, not you, but anyone, who I said any of the press or anyone can at the Health Ministry, that there's an open door for everyone, for every tender that's going on, let alone for the Commission in the Fund. Now I say in front of everyone, whoever's interested can attend any commission. What's so secret? What's the problem? So, I think it's the only way that these citizens, unfortunately, who need help, are to see that we're really thinking about them, and not that we're here to talk nice, and they don't have anything or that we're going to get some points and stuff. I don't think they'll have any of it, and we'll feel bad if we don't do it in that field to make them feel better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8617	I thank Minister Lonchar. The People's MP, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, came forward, but you have no right to a replica, Mr Milisavljevic. Article 104 says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the delay relates will have the right to replication. This condition is not met, because the minister is not a People's MP, except where I, as the chairman, would estimate that you might have the opportunity if he expressed himself offensively in his presentation. I listened carefully to the presentation of Minister Loncar, not a single word was offended, nor did I give an incorrect interpretation of any MP’s presentation. So you don't have the right to a replica. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the post: I report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. After the injury of the Rules of Procedure? What member? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: Turn on my microphone. Article 104.) You've already instructed Article 107. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: Turn on my microphone, Article 104) Article 104. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8618	I don't know how you quote members of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8619	I can read from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8620	Yeah, but it wasn't me. How do you read what I'm going to call myself?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8622	I think you should have warned the minister, given that it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that I was out of the picture. I think the health minister came out of the picture, didn't talk about health books. You should have warned him to return to the agenda. I want to tell you, you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8623	The minister responded to everything that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8624	Mr. Becic, please let me say it. I fight for the right to say, for the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8625	Mr. Milisavljevic, the minister has the right to speak, to explain the law that is in the procedure, on the agenda and to answer the question asked by the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8626	Let me finish. At least you're one of the nicer and more cultural presidents. I've tried to tell you twice about health corruption, and I've been robbed twice. I'm still honored to insult the medical profession. I'm asking you, what about the health ministry tender that accounts for more than 150 million dinars, what about that cancelled tender...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8627	Mr. Milisavljevic, you're really breaking...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8628	... What happened to that canceled tender? What about Galenic and Bromazepam? It's a crime. [[off microphone.]] They're not doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8629	The word has a folk letter from Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8630	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the esteemed Health Ministers of Mr Loncar, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our club, of course as well as the citizens, is pleased to accept the preparation for this session, because every topic related to the health system, reforms in the health system, for good steps towards improving conditions for better citizens' health and how it is a subject that intrigues the ordinary man for whom we are MPs here in these benches and we have a good task to pass quality laws to implement health care. It has already been heard, although it appears to be a topic of technical nature, we are moving actually a term for correcting or special regulation for health insurance, i.e. to achieve health care. It's just a technical nature, but it is a step further in setting an essential goal for better health care. One of these goals is the IT information system that will allow the moment when our citizens all have such a book, 10,000 experts, including some 7,000 selected doctors and some 3,000 pharmacists to be networked and every moment can be seen what kind of communication is between patients and just them. It is actually the transparency that we are talking about here and it is actually a very, very important step in improving the conditions for prevention, for good diagnostics, for treatment, for rehabilitation systems that should also be controlled and professionally provided for each man individually. Who exactly are these insurance companies and what is their structure? It was interesting for me to note, using RFO data, that there are, unfortunately, only one million and 640,000 of those who allocate funds to the RFO among the employees. Who's filling our health care bank next? Various pensioners who also have about a million and 640,000. So we have one terrible disproportion in anticipation of who invests in RFZO. Plus the number of family members worth millions and 200 thousand and over pensioners another 250,000. When you see that structure you actually realize that the distribution of money should be controlled by those who single out their health money and that reforms of the health insurance system should actually begin, but that they depend on those who fill that bank, or the Republic Health Insurance Fund. We well-known principles of solidarity, mutuality based on a commitment that represents a little bit of a nostalgic thread and remembers us for a period when a sick man had one single obligation to take a health book, to go to his doctor who would continue to care for it fully inciting the need to think about what should actually be sent out of these benches as an idea and what categories are actually the most vulnerable and perhaps the system has to take more account of. I agree that these are farmers who should have a health book. Where is one discrepancy? A farmer who works in that biggest factory, but where the working conditions are the hardest, under the sky. If he happened to have severe surgical intervention, if he happened to have a serious injury, and for several months he could not be in his field and can no longer work for his family and himself, there is nothing that is pandanic by means of means that arise from sickness. We must send out a message from these benches about the care of those who may even be the closest members of the family cannot be adequately concerned, and when we talk about the need and under difficult circumstances to fix the conditions for all insurance companies and that they are absolutely equal, we must certainly think about those categories as MPs and give such suggestions to the Ministry to encourage them to have as many books as possible, and even these electronic ones, they also have certain benefits. In fact, it's not the benefits, it's the equality with all the other insurance companies. What might be the second category of people who will have health books and whose interests must we and health workers and the whole society protect? They're people with mental disorders. You know, they have the right to treat as well as any other cardiovascular, endocrinological, surgical patients. I'll give you one piece of information - from a budget from which funds are allocated, for example. For medicinal products for people with mental disorders is 1.9% in Serbia, and in all countries, between 2% and 8%. We need to think about this category of people who have the right to receive such a modern medicine that has been applied in the world for 20 years to the Nuns effect of drugs not to be the reason for the stigmatization of our patients. What makes people with mental disorders noticeable and makes the degree of Stigmatisation increase is their appearance, and it is not due to the disease, it is the result of already surviving therapy that is given to such people and the nuns effects that this therapy is giving. We have discussed deeply the man who will have this book and should have it and it is not disputed that this deadline should be at the end of 2016 and it is not disputed that for every commendation, it is the position that millions and 200,000 of the poorest and socially threatened people should receive it without any financial compensation, and of course the rest of us do so with the necessary payment conditions that must exist. It really costs everything, and this control that we're talking about and how who can do it without some coercion, rather than end it by the end of 2016, but for all this time, because I think that in the category of those who are actually going to get these books, there will be some farmers and some people with mental disorders and some other categories of people who are carriers of these health books, so they have the right to insurance, that we have to take a lot more care of them all. It is a good view that the profession at the Ministry sends certain suggestions to the Republic Fund, which is not just a classic bank. There is not only money and there is not only the need to finance the Government of Serbia's programmes and the views of the ministry, or agreed policies. They must protect the rights of the insurance company. I don't care much about those categories of sick people who have quite fought with the right to have European standards and I'm not against them. They must only be a model to all of us, and it is a message from our parliamentary group, that in fact our concern about carriers, and even these electronic books must be greater for those who sometimes have no insight, and they do not know what their rights are in terms of achieving health insurance. In addition to our frequent appeal to the concentration of “medicus anate, the nature of the cura” – doctors heal, nature heals. We are all aware that doctors can heal and that nature can help where there is a real financial structure, because actually health care is expensive, health costs. There was an opportunity for us at the MP's club to discuss this specifically. We think different levels of insurance should exist, that insurance reform as a first step of health reform should exist, but that reform requires, before it goes into it, that now in these conditions anyone who has a book that we're talking about today knows what a package of basic services they're entitled to. It's totally consistent with the idea that he should have as much insight into the account as it costs. There are two reasons, on the one hand, that we simply correct people's awareness of it and that we inform all of our citizens that health costs really, and on the other hand, that we have an insight into how much we actually isolate it, each of us, and what really happens with that money, what is this money distribution? We can't do it any different than to look into our accounts how much treatment costs us or, much better, preventive activity, any medical service we've had in any medical institution. In the hope that the steps of the Ministry of Health will indeed have a pace that we started, last week we had a very correct debate about one topic, today for another, of course, that the SPS MPs in the voting day will vote to move the schedule and not just a technical matter of delaying the time when we will all have electronic books, but everything that arises from the moves made by this ministry and this government on the plan to fix healthcare. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8631	I thank Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8632	Dear guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing one member of the amendment and addition of the Health Insurance Act, just to move until 31 December 2016 the entry into force of electronic cards, but we have heard all sorts of things through the discussion. It's no big deal if we hear from the opposition some cheap demagogue about some things, it's in the heat of political struggle, it can be a way of trying to get some political points, but if we hear it from the doctor's mouth, then it's a little bitter, especially from those who've been able to do a lot of things in health for 12 years, to carry out reforms, to do exactly what they're saying today, what we need to do, and they haven't done. The largest bureaucracy of health has just happened from 2000 to today, a lot of paperwork that prevents doctors from doing their job. Not to say that back then, in 2010, they suggested that the price of the electronic card be 700 dinars, and today they rebel which is 400 dinars. It simply seems a little demagogue and a little naive, especially when considering that 1,200,000 people will be freed, because the National Bank wants to help, and I'm sure we'll find a way to free many more, and employers are doing everything they can to pay their workers these cards. You can see that, for example, in Valjev. Is it due now, today, that we have an increase in cardiovascular disease, cancer, psychiatric disease? You know, who's been through this 10-year-old transition, who's out of a job, whose factories are closed, can hardly stand his heart and can hardly stand the stress without getting some cancer. We're talking about money in the Fund, health care shares the fate of the economy of its society. Our economy has been destroyed, sold out, no production. We can't expect to have money for health care, it just goes with each other. What our strength is in our economy, we will have such health care, not just health care, but all other social activities. So what am I supposed to say about the cards now? There is now for and against. It's normal for citizens to know all this. It's been a while since the citizens were out giving out some money, and they didn't know where that money was going. These 400 dinars they have to give for the card, they need to know what they're getting with it, what are the advantages of the electronic system at all. Cards should monitor the comprehensiveness of one reform and the overall electronic system in society, and that means electronic cardboard, electronic card and electronic prescription. The card will help a lot so that people don't wait in line to verify their books, save money on stamp printing, save money on printing and cardboard books that have to be made when they run out of time or when someone gets a job or when they change something in their life. These are all advantages without talking about the EU. The electronic card is a synonym for the EU. All EU countries have an electronic card, including non-member countries, e.g. Ireland, Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein, they all have an electronic card as well. With all the countries in the EU with which we have signed certain agreements, our citizens will be able to be treated there if we have an electronic card here. They're all benefites. Not to mention how much the introduction of cardboard and prescription will shorten their waiting, and how much we'll be able to help doctors to know better through the history of the disease how to treat these people. So it's another attempt, and it takes time, it needs an organization, it needs funds. Everything needs to mature and everything needs to be organized. It seems to us that in two years, the standard of our citizens will be higher and God forbid that those 400 dinars will be paid only by those who have, and for the poorest of the layers we will manage, be assured. If there's something in this society today, in this ministry, that's solidarity, that's the humanity that's seen at every step and desire right through the Ministry of Health and the Minister how to help that, what we thought, and that's human society, continues to be our mark, both the peoples and this country. Certainly this should be supported and certainly should be through the system of health reform, but organised, planically, go step by step, further and further. We see that, we saw it a few days ago when we passed the Law on Specializations, that the wish of the Ministry is sincere that through raising the level and quality of treatment we're saving the most, we'll save the most here. We'll save the most if we can get a fit that knows he's been working with machines that someone's been buying for 12 years to take a commission in tenders and push into some rooms, and now we're full of Serbia with all kinds of machines that nobody knows how to work. That's where we'll save up. Knowledge saves, ignorance consumes. Therefore, full support to the ministry, full support and desire to continue to implement reforms in health through the system organised, professional. We hope that in this way and through the electronic system, we will manage to keep up with Europe and that our citizens will only be able to heal in Europe with their own electronic card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8633	I thank Dr. Blazic. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go. Sign up, please. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8634	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, Members of Parliament, the Health Insurance Act regulates the rights of compulsory health insurance of employees and other citizens as otherwise stated in the law, which is about his definition covered by this insurance system and which differs from what can be mandatory and voluntary as it says in the law. Mandatory insurance is based on the principle of solidarity, reciprocity. It implies a basic level of health care provided through the Republic Health Insurance Fund. When we talk about this type of insurance, it gives every citizen the right and provides protection in case of illness, case of work injury, non-work injuries and professional illness. The condition to obtain this compulsory health insurance implies paying for the contributions of employees and employers. I think that's the first problem we face when we're talking about the reality and sustainability of this system at all, precisely because we're meeting in society with a big problem of lagging behind in paying or disrespecting this legal obligation. One of the things that needs to be solved and that the state has to solve, in order to ensure that the health system functions normally, is to provide for all legal persons, in all businesses, that this legal obligation is carried out in accordance with those deadlines and in the way that the law provides. We are used to a health care system that has worked for many years or over a decade in such a way that all levels of health care and health care have been available to us. We didn't have waiting lists. Today, it is another problem that lies in the health care sector. The waiting lists that are sometimes justified, but sometimes not justified, and I also find that the problem that needs to be solved is in line with the modernisation of the entire health system. What healthcare must mean or regularly be represented and constantly innovative are equipment and personnel. The assessment that our equipment is in pretty good condition in many health centers exists. We also have well-trained staff and doctors, even many of us have to leave the country as I believe, in line with the needs of the health care population, it would be important to ensure that these young people are left behind and that they are employed in our country. We want to develop, at least our parliamentary group, at least the left party in any case a socially responsible society that gives citizens the right to health care. It is in line with our history, with our tradition, finally and with our faith, and it is important that it exists and that it is equally available for all. We can conclude that there is quite a good coverage in our country in the citizens' health system, although there are citizens who are invisible to this system, and they refer to marginal groups, to unemployed, to those who do not pay contributions, enterprises in restructuring, etc., and that is one problem or one segment of social phenomena that the health system, the Ministry of Health, together with the Fund and the Government, or the whole state must solve in the coming period, but the most important thing is that health, at least minimum health care is equally accessible to all. I am convinced that the Government will take all of its actions in future time, and especially you, Mr. Minister, who are now at the head of this ministry as an important and sensitive portfolio on this in the coming period. In any case, what is important to us and what is significant is that there is a better insight and control of the way the funds are spent, of course by being presented to the citizens, I also consider it important to the press, to be presented to the citizens how much it costs every level of health care that it has received, to be aware of that value and quality, not to be free of charge, so it is invisible and it is thought that it really does not cost, that for decades back it has been offended, so it is known that when we go to a car mechanic, we know how much it costs car mechanic services and we appreciate it very much, and on the other hand, the service of doctors that I so sensitive work, protection of life and protection of the health of citizens, because it does not give its price, we simply consider it to be understood. In order to resolve this question, I will return only to one important note, that to provide this condition, it is important for the state to provide what we are constantly talking about, work and employment. Only filling funds, only full employment can provide the full financial security of this significant system. It is therefore an obligation to improve this system, to create effective, accessible, quality, to regulate waiting lists and minimise and to ensure the employment of new doctors. Changes in a particular direction, above all in the development of primary health care, were initiated in the previous period when the minister, Ms Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, was headed, and we also discussed this in this Assembly, when special attention was noted in the further development of this system of promotion and coordination will be devoted to the homes of health and doctors of general practice at that level. It is also important to develop a culture of health care for each population and to develop all forms of prevention in order to protect the health of the population. The introduction of a new electronic card in any case means more order and responsibility, but I will underline this time more for the employer and for those who have to fulfil their health obligations. It would be good for the introduction of a health card to be available to everyone, free of charge for those who are in a state of social need, although it is not burning to consider that under this system they are free of charge and thus available for all. All these changes mean that in any case we get a better health care system, but I'm going to ask one question, what is the position now that we get an electronic card, is state or private health? Whether future and more than ever we will develop private health care, whether the citizen’s electronic card system will be able to achieve the same right in either system or at least in the private system partially participated, etc., because I believe that development and the private sector in the field of health, under clearly prescribed conditions and opportunities for the physician to work in one or another sphere of work, also of great importance. So, I advocate, in any case, the introduction of an electronic card, an electronic chart that provides data efficiency at every level and place, in every city and in every health institution, as well as the monitoring and use of medicines and the use of funds for this kind of health care. All of this should, I think, be of importance, especially when it comes to our population and what kind of demographic and health problems we have, given that our population is getting older, that unfortunately there are new infectious diseases for which there must be both prevention or the introduction of new ways and methods of treatment, that we know the trend of the most massive disease and that we are going to meet it, and that protection of particularly sensitive categories is being developed, especially children. When it comes to deadlines, the deadline proposed by this law, as it is written that by 31 December 2016, I believe that it is possible, in line with the opportunities that will exist both in the fund and through the ministry itself, to be achieved before 31 December, as in some discussions and possibly proposals, given that we all consider that it could be better and better then health care. So what I stand for, in any case and this time, is quality, better organised accessible healthcare, equal state and private, to prevent the accent from being in particularly sensitive categories, to solve waiting lists, to know the price of treatment, their options, and as a condition for all the development of the Serbian state that I want to see economically strengthened, stronger and employed. In this respect, the development of health staff will also be more quality, their presence greater, their quality greater in national life, and at the same time their mobility, in line with their improvement and acquisition of new knowledge and skills. In that case, I think that the efforts of the Ministry of Health will also be harmonised and fully used in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8635	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8636	As far as you're concerned, you're asking all those private offices that have a contract with the Republic Fund, these cards that are being introduced will be valid. So for the private offices that are recognised by the Fund and which have a contract with the Fund, they will be a unique system, or they will be equipped to recognize it and be in that system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8637	Thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8638	There is a non-reform policy that demagogues itself every day, and we have a typical example here. Here's a few hours we've been talking about a complete technical matter, and that's whether we need health books, whether they should be in electronic form, if that's possible, and how much it costs. Of course, it is possible, of course, that everything has a price and it is not the subject of a congregation debate, of course, that three years ago the law was passed and a month ago beyond that, and that nothing was done to introduce these cards, and it became all the conditions for it to be finished already, but it was the result of a general Javaljuka which, even in health, which is a very awkward place for any public, was very pronounced. First, the fact that it is not scheduled for a session a month after the law expires is one irresponsibility, whether it is a question of parliament, or the leadership of parliament or the government issue, all of a sudden, it is irresponsibility. The equipment that makes such cards, the equipment that made the new ID cards arrived in Serbia in 2003, November. She bought the government that I ran and that equipment has since been able to print everything that was needed to make life easier for Serbian citizens and to exercise their rights in a way that is worth the 20th century. Should those cards be charged? Of course you don't need it because it's the Fund's job, which normally collects big money from citizens' pockets, of course, is just a matter of what the big money is spent on. We've heard the last few months of incredible statements where the Fund saved some money -- the fund's costs have been reduced. That means someone died because someone was playing with people's health. The fund can't save, but the fund needs to spend the most rational money it collects from citizens to treat those same citizens, so it's absolutely impossible for the Fund to save 300m euros and transfer that much to the pension fund. That's probably why the number of future pensioners has been reduced, because there are a lot of people who won't see pensions for it. What's much more important than whether or not we're going to move the deadline for the issue of health books by a new model is whether or not we're going to reform the health care system. I think we all agree that this system is not good and needs to be changed. The New Party's proposal, which is part of our programme, is to define ourselves as the Beverage system, which works not only in rich countries such as Great Britain, such as Denmark and the Scandinavia countries, but also in Greece and Portugal, so that they are not only rich in one such system. What's most important about this system is solidarity. This means that all citizens would have health insurance and so would one big nightmare that is present today with many citizens would be part of history – whether a contribution is paid, whether I have a stamp, whether it is a certified book, what if it happens in the middle of the night in those days when contributions are paid, whether you will receive me, whether it will not receive me. According to public opinion studies, which provide many data, including data on which fears are dominant among citizens, for more than 20 years we have been afraid of inability to treat because people are not sure that they will have insurance that they will be able to heal. By moving to the Beverage system, we would send this huge fear to our citizens in history. So we're dealing with serious affairs, serious reforms, and health books, like this or whatever, are going to be the result of these reforms, not the condition as they say here. It is especially pointless to say that this is an EU condition. There are no EU conditions but we need to meet the standards necessary to become part of that integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8639	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8640	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I will certainly support this law, as it technically extends the deadline in which the health books will be replaced with the corresponding cards. Since it is always late with us, it is quite understandable for me that in this process it must be extended until 31 December 2016. The issue of our health care is also closely related to the economic strength of this country. Natural and created goods should serve as a right to honest work, to decent profit, to available education and health care, so that we can educate those who want to, and that we can treat those who do not want to be treated. The health care system, the extent of healthcare and services is also directly linked to the country's economic power, i.e. GDP. The detachment from GDP in our country depends on an estimate of 6% to 8% of GDP, and if we look at it that way, we may not be lagging behind in the surrounding countries. In Europe, it's average between 9% and 12%, in the United States about 16%. If you look at some countries like, say, Croatia, and if you look at the percentage, then it could lead us to the conclusion that we don't single out so little in percentages, but when we look at how much GDP there is, as it stands, I think that neighbouring Croatia has 50 billion GDP. So, if they stand out 6% to 8%, it is a far greater sum to a far smaller number of people, because Croatia has four or slightly more million inhabitants, while Serbia has almost 50% more inhabitants and has allocated a similar percentage of GDP. When it is converted into money, it is far less sum and far less per capita than it is in Serbia. Serbia stands out from 250 euros to 260 euros, but that information is not true either because private services are likely to be paid even more, so in one way or another, which through compulsory insurance, which through additional private services, is about 500 euros per capita. In order to achieve our right to available health care, can we treat those who will and those who will not, we must also have the appropriate health books, or cards that we are dealing with today. What my colleagues have been saying so far, who stood up for farmers, except for a colleague who had never mentioned it before, but he was a farmer in an attempt, so they are in a specific position. The most endangered category is farmers, those who make the biggest contribution to our GDP, along with the diaspora, which gives us five billion dollars a year, foreign foreign exchange records, so that we can survive in general as a nation and as a state. Farmers are the ones who give us strategic security. However, the greatest injustice has been done against them and workers, especially workers who are not paid by the employer for health insurance. So, such a type of worker who, not by their mistake, the employer has not paid for health insurance, they do not have the right to health care, while people who are not employed, who are registered at the Employment Bureau, at the Employment Service, do so right. So, in this country, it's better to be an unemployed employee, to receive some receipts, if there are any from the unemployment bureau. You're here health and social security, but if you work and you're being punished already if your employer didn't pay your salary, he didn't pay your contribution, in which case you can't even get treatment, so if you hurt yourself at work, your treatment rights are nothing. So it's almost amazing that the unemployed have more rights than the employees, who in one way or another, whether the employer paid them PIO, made some social products, made some goods, and the goods was money. Such a type of worker remained completely unprotected and it is almost amazing that you can see that when the Bureau points out that application deadline, just before the end of the unemployment report, those who come to the Employment Bureau often come to cars that are worth under 30, 40, 50,000 euros, just to extend, to apply to the Employment and Extension Office, to verify their books, thus obtaining the right to provide their own and their families with health insurance. This right does not have those who work, although they are building a social product, the right to health care does not only because the employer did not charge them that health insurance. A friend from Topola, the president of the municipality, spoke about the rights of farmers, and I would add that farmers are even more vulnerable than these workers who work and do not receive salaries, are not paid contributions, do not have the right to health care. Farmers are even more threatened that they once a year turn money over the year, so they don't have four harvests in a year, and taxes and contributions are paid quarterlyly, and if they don't have money, if it wasn't the harvest, if they haven't sold their product, if they even sold it, so they've been cheated, so they haven't charged, in which case they can't finance health insurance regularly, and they can't choose the time they get sick. If they are ill at the time when they have not served their obligations, in that case they do not have the right to be treated or paid for in private pockets. So, em don't have the right, em have to pay it out of their own pockets, em through the flow of time they have to pay it, or if they don't pay the back-up health insurance wars as individuals, as farmers, they're being seized by assets or means of labor, tractors are preying on land, they're being auctioned and sold to settle their obligations in time and in part when they have no right to be treated at all, since because they're not serving their obligations just once a year because they just haven't been able to do so. That's not the case with workers. If he changes his employer and gets a job elsewhere, he regularly applies to PIO and health insurance, and in that case the worker just keeps going. At that point, he has the right to be treated, while in the case of a farmer, unless he paid some previous period, in the following year, unless he serves his obligations, he loses his rights again, and regardless of his use, his assets are being seized. I therefore urge both the Minister and the Government to find an appropriate solution that in such cases people who had no right to be treated do not necessarily have to pay obligations during which they had no right to do so. So, farmers are particularly in a difficult position, both before and for PIO, no matter what they are 65 years old, which they had only five or six years of employment in agriculture, they can't get the pension right, and let's say for the backlog of the PIO property, they're being seized by land, tractors, machinery, even though they can't, since they can't have 15 years of training in agriculture because they're 65 years old, they won't have the right to retire. Em didn't have a pension, their retirement is charged by force, their means of working with which they would like to continue working and to achieve a social product, to make food, to produce. They are also seized by land and property for a pension-inhabited internship, for health services which they did not use and for PIOs which did not pay, since they could not achieve the necessary training in agriculture for 15 years, they did not pay it within a certain period, they do not have the right to retire at 65 years of age, and they charge their pensions by force, whether they realize or not. I am fully willing to uphold this law. As president of the People's Peasant Party, I was obliged to support all colleagues who spoke of the injustice that was done to farmers who, regardless of the military and economic pressures our country was exposed to, managed to keep us at the worst time, to keep our heads above water, to keep us completely from falling apart. So after 2000, especially the colleagues who took power in 2000 should be aware that we were in some moral and any other obligation that what agriculture and farmers sacrificed from 1990 to 2000 and, of course, with workers who are now out of work, that employers do not pay them contributions, which remain without health insurance, we are obliged and obliged to pay to those people who have borne the greatest burden of military and economic pressures that our country has been exposed to today, who still earn on their shoulders what we share by broadcasting various rights, including these social rights, we are obliged to provide such people. So I join colleagues who want health insurance available to all citizens, as is available to, say, 1.2 million people who are not employed, who are unemployed or are recipients of some social assistance. I join my colleagues, and I used to say that health insurance and health care is available to everyone and that the GDP sets out a certain percentage for all health care, has the right for everyone to be treated, even those who do not want to, or when we find someone sick who does not want to be treated at all, it is our human obligation, a solidarity obligation to contribute. I know there's not enough money. In this congregation, there's always talk about how to split the money. We never discuss how to make money. I was already talking about those who earn money, often being released from certain rights that even those who don't. In that sense, I support all my colleagues who are committed to making all these health care rights available to everyone, but also, I appeal to my colleagues, to discuss in the future how to earn as much from agriculture, the processing industry and energy as possible and that this percentage that is allocated to health may remain the same, but that in a numerical number, that is to say, that this amount of money will be far higher, because by GDP growth with this percentage, it will grow and the amounts that we will allocate for health care and thus health will be even more efficient and accessible to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8641	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8642	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, today's debate on this piece of paper, paper, whatever you want. The theme is whether this piece of paper should be replaced with plastic, chipped or not. You ministers decided to come to the Assembly today and suggest that this deadline for issuing plastic health books that can function in the electronic health system be postponed for two more years, right? And to stay, practically, the only country that has the kind of books that existed 40, 50 and 60 years ago. Maybe you wouldn't be weird to me, because, well, every minister's job is to defend some legal proposal that's nothing but a delay, so, a delay in the work you were supposed to do. You came here today with your colleagues, you're wasting a day very important to Serbia's health, we're losing days here because maybe we should have discussed some other topics, budget rebalancing and similar issues. What surprises me is the fact that someone can speak for 20 minutes and praise this move of yours, to praise the fact that you wrote that the introduction of electronics is said - in the Health Insurance Act, the messenger and that, the Republic of Serbia, within three years of the date of entry into force of this law is replaced by words - as of 31 December 2016. This law is about the introduction of electronic health books. That someone praises it as a phenomenal move. I ask you, Mr. Lonchar, what's awesome about it? What have you contributed to Serbia's health system with today's act, that is, by amending the law? I'd prefer ministers if we were talking today about the fact that this piece of paper means for the citizens of Serbia and what association does it be in them? What kind of health care system do they see when they take this piece of paper in their hand? Do you think they might think of the order in the homes of health, do you think they think of the non-working college centres, do you think they think of the fact that they can't use machines that are malfunctioning because the previous government has passed, the same majority, the bad law that has allowed us to repair machines in health care within an adequate time period and therefore, when citizens of Serbia see this health book, think that they won't, which someone just said, be able to be treated. It is the greatest fear that exists in Serbia. That doesn't require any public opinion research, and that's what agencies do, you can ask any of your neighbors, friends and relatives. They're most afraid and they're sick, and they say, for no reason, don't God let you get sick, because they know they won't be able to be treated, that we're not talking about any special cases when they assume that they may have to call volunteers, that they advertise in newspapers on TV stations a kind of disease, that they might be treated abroad, because for that health care system in Serbia is not being trained. And you're talking about some savings from the Health Insurance Fund and some donation that someone gave us with your success, because we're going to get 1.2 million free health books. It's a state institution, right? If I understand correctly, is this about the Banknote Bureau? Well, that's spilling from hollow to empty, and that's our money. Mr. Loncar, the citizens of Serbia know what kind of healthcare they have, and you're probably when you took that place you knew what was waiting for you, but I don't see, Mr. Loncar, that some significant shift has been made in these four months, if you don't think about extending the issue of health books for another two years. How much, Mr. Lonchar, do you know, is currently in Serbia an invalid radiation apparatus? Do you know what kind of walls and appliances are like in individual clinical centres? What do they look like? (Ljuvica Mrdaković Todorovic, Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Theme. ) Someone is witnessing – darkness. I've been listening for 20 minutes today about health system theories. I'm talking about life in Serbia. Now I'm going to relate to those theories. We are also the official country with the worst health care system in Europe. Mr. Lonchar, you probably know that. So there are some 1700 numerical data that need to be filled in to see where we are in Europe's health system. Dear counterpart Djurovic spoke of these numerical values. He said there were about six or seven groups of these numerical values, One of them is informing citizens about the health system. So do they know where health care can be provided, what quality, who can provide them, and what are the consequences of these medical treatments? The second group of numerical values, a colleague said, is accessibility, i.e. access to health care. I would like to talk about it and that something in these four months, or two and a half years, how many of these ruling coalitions in power, we have done to make sure that citizens see safety in that they are being treated. The third group is the outcome of treatment, the outcome of treatment. We have a situation where we have excellent surgeons, you know, who do their job very well. However, because of the conditions in these operating halls, they get some bacteria that are harder to remove than to perform the operation. You know that well, Mr. Lonchar, since you've been in that area for a long time. Next is prevention and some other things that are a criterion for the success of a health system. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Lonchar, to do something if you're able to fix some of these criteria. You will not do so by postponing the solutions, which with such legal proposals you will come to the Assembly, but by making an effort to change something, if you have the opportunity to make such a choice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as I said to your young colleague Verbic, if you can do so, do, if you do not, say and thank you. Unfortunately, we don't see the effects of your work yet. Appreciateing your expertise, qualifications and everything else, we don't see the effects. I'm asking you, what did you do to ensure that even if the basic protection was provided to the citizens? In order to obtain a prescription, or diagnosis, that radiation should be administered, so that they can do so within an adequate period, not within a time period that will endanger their health, or their life. Serbian citizens did not choose such health care or people who would treat them in this way. I'd like you to implement your wishes in reality, but unfortunately we don't see it yet. That's why, of course, we're not going to vote for these changes of the law, because they're not just leaving the situation the way it is, but we're going backwards, because many have already done this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8643	I thank Dr. Veselinović. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8644	Let me start from the beginning. You asked what the point is, what are we talking about today and what's some kind of benefit or whatever? We had a situation just over a month ago, a warning against an appeal based on a contract that was carried out in 2010, the law was passed and the rest, that on the basis of unfulfilled obligations under the contract and based on this lawsuit we would have to pay six million euros. Six million euros. It's listed according to what it is, what it was done on the basis of that contract, what the National Bank has already taken over, the Coin of Money. We bought repromaterials, human training, any card cards, a million 150,000, and we had a situation to do this, not to do this, that they filed that lawsuit, and automatically, because they didn't meet the contract's obligations, to block the bill and to take down six million euros and that we, or Serbian citizens, had literally nothing of it. That was one possibility. By the time we got there, I'm not going back to why we got there, the contract was signed in 2010, four annexes, prices, what did we do? We stopped that lawsuit, we kept those six million from going as a forced charge, because it's by law, we managed to win a million and 200,000 that in the first contract didn't even exist as a donation, as a gift for the most vulnerable, we managed to make the price just as much as it costs to make. You've seen the price, it's 2.96 with 5.16, not to compare to other electronic cards and the like. You can check for yourself, see how much they pay and how much they cost. We're going very transparent here. In addition, when we were crushed against the wall, I think we were able to get as far as we could out as possible in that situation and at that moment. It's always better, it's nothing controversial, so that's the essence of this story where we've been, what we've been doing and what this is about. So as not to remind me to go off the subject again, I'll say a few things. Here, I'll say one everyone knows about. For seven years, she failed to get rid of maternity and pregnant women. Seven years. It's been solved in a month. Every day, it's taken in all the maternity wards, all the gynaecological clinics. You know that, since September 1st, it's come to life. Within a month, a commission was formed, a regulation made, consistent with all the necessary and done. We went out transparently with waiting lists that were always taboo topics. You know where, you know how. Most of all, we wish we could treat all our people in the same day, but think about whether it's real and where it still exists? The waiting list, the mention of Nis. Both machines have been trained. We've speeded up the procedure. If there's no malfunction or anything until the new year on the Nis waiting list, there won't be any radiation. We're in trouble with the staff deficit, the age limit, the specialization and everything. But not to get out of the subject, so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8645	I thank Minister Lonchar. The word has the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica to the exhibition of Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wonder if Mr. Veselinovic has heard of the Majdanek municipality. Yesterday, citizens of the municipality confirmed that the electoral will of the citizens of Majdanpek municipality is almost identical with the electoral will of the parliamentary elections held in March 2014 and this is the best proof that the RS government is including the Ministry of Health on the right track. What surprises me is that the chairman has not interrupted you because you have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure on several grounds. First of all, I think that you have demeaned the authorised representative of the SNS, or that you have demeaned the people who spoke in favour of supporting this law because you were surprised that someone could ask 20 minutes about a law that only has two members and you have asked a constant question to Minister Loncar – what has he done since he was Minister of Health? Now the SNS is asking you -- why did you in the former Serbian health care regime do everything you did from 2000 to 2012? There is no Dr. Loncar and there is no genius in this white world who can correct all the bad things that the parties of the former regime, including yours, have done not only to the health system, but also to education, businesses and all other areas of social life. I think that, without any need, you have spread panic amongst the citizens and in an extremely inconclusive way, it is reported that citizens will now be in doubt whether they will be able to be treated etc. Of course he won't be in doubt. So the member is very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8647	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8648	I'm done. By 31 December 2016, the Republic Fund shall carry out the replacement of an insurance document, and until the full replacement of the insurance documents, all health insurance users will be able to be treated as they were treated until the date of entry into force of this law. So what you did was extremely inconclusive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8649	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word has a national envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović, to mention the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8650	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't see what the Mayanpek elections have to do with the state of RS healthcare and the fact that we are officially the worst health system in Europe. For two and a half years, gentlemen, your jurisdiction is in all areas and also in the field of health care in Serbia. Nothing moved forward. I made it clear that I wish I could praise some of the measures and that I wish Mr. Lonchar could succeed. The fact that families have been given to eat is no worldly achievement, or salty food. I guess it's basic that one country should give to those who bring children into the world, who should inherit us who work here. Is that Mr. Lonchar even commendable? I ask you, how many machines are wrong in Serbia at this point? I'm not asking you what results you've made in Majdanpek. I'm not asking you what happened five or ten years ago. I ask you, even what happened two and a half years ago when you came to power, what is the situation today, and what are you going to do so that Serbian citizens are not afraid of getting sick? The answer to that question is very important to me, and I would like it to be answered by one who would be convincing not to spread panic, but rather to spread a good mood because Serbian citizens will be able to be treated if they get sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8651	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8652	Unfortunately, Mr. Martinovic, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8653	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8654	One is the fact that citizens have no reason to worry. I think they know that. It's all done to make the conditions better and they get the best they can, the more adequate help they feel and they see it, so there's no reason to add or subtract. If you think it's epochal that they got, I don't even know what the problem was in the last seven years to get it. If you think you can change your health system overnight, I'm telling you it's impossible. And to get unlimited resources, to have someone tell you -- here's as much as you want, it's impossible, because I'm telling you it's in that condition. We've come from the fact that we're where we are, but you can't be in first or last place for a short period of time, in a year or two. It's something that takes a long time. When we're in that place, you can't move in a month, two, three, four, five, ten, to move out of that place, because you need to change something, implement it, live it, and see it. I'm sure the citizens know that, to see and to feel that something is happening and that it's done. I'm glad that there are more and more demands for change, because citizens say they saw that there's a chance, that there's someone who will, who can, who can deal with these problems and solve them. What we're gonna do and how we're gonna do, we're just gonna see it, none of us can talk about it in advance. We may have the best intentions and everything, but the result will be the only measure of what we've done and how we've done. Neither your story nor my story, to tell the worst and the best, you speak the worst, I say the best, it has nothing to do with it. We will see what the results will be, what our nation's health will be, and on that basis we will be able to judge all our actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8655	I thank you, Dr. Lonchar. The word has the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary for man to be quite politically untalented so he can ask himself the question of what the results of yesterday's in Majdanpek have to do with the subject of the agenda. They have an exceptional connection because these election results show that citizens of Majdanpek, and given the percentage and citizens of all Serbia, support what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and what the current health minister is doing. You also asked the minister what it is, what he will do to fix the bad situation in Serbian health. The man told you nicely, you obviously don't want to listen, but if you don't want to listen, maybe it's not hard for you to read. Since you have often quoted Prime Minister Vukic here, take his exposés and you will see that one important part of this exposé also refers to reforms in the health care system. What the SNS asks you, not just me, and what the Serbian citizens ask you – who estimated that our health system, as you said, is the worst in Europe, is it possible that Tomica Milosavljevic, a man who cheered and dressed from 2002 to 2012, if I am not mistaken, to the Serbian health care that was at the time successful in treating the Minister of Health in the Federal Republic of Germany, or had so much confidence in his own health system that, if I am not mistaken, he had performed a spinal surgery somewhere in 2009 in Germany? Then the gentlemen of the former regime appear in the National Assembly and as if they had never been in power and as if they had never ruined anything in this country, they ask the Minister, today the Loncar, tomorrow someone else - what is it, Mr. Minister, what did you do in three months? It is impossible to fix the bad situation in Serbian health in such a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8657	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8658	But the Ministry of Health is trying, as all other resolution ministries are doing. Please, just one more sentence, so there's no confusion. My wife gave birth in 2006 and ate the same food that the families ate and when the SNS came to power. How was that food good for the maternity family in 2006, and when the advances rule Serbia, suddenly the food gets bad?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8659	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Janko Veselinović, you signed up, but you have no right to a replica. I've closed the circle of replicas. The word has a national message, Mariana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8660	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, supports the adoption of the Law amending the Health Insurance Act for the reason we believe that the introduction of an electronic health card will contribute to the achievement of quality, timely and effective healthcare. The introduction of a health card will take a major step towards improving the quality of health care, primarily avoiding unnecessary complicated procedures and replacing health books, as you have noted, Mr. Minister. The change in personal data on the insurance company will be done by loading, without changing the card itself, will allow the use of an electronic prescription for medicines, but its introduction should allow the establishment of safe, efficient electronic services in the Republic Health Insurance Fund and, of course, to prevent abuse. Serbia has committed itself in agreement with the European Commission to introduce health cards, as has been translated into the Health Insurance Act. So, according to the law, the Fund had an obligation to introduce health cards, and since it was not done within the deadline, it is necessary that we adopt this bill and extend the deadline. A report on Serbia's 2012 progress, in the Chapter of the Freedom of Movement of Workers, contained in the annual report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia, in the European integration process for 2012, explicitly stands – no shift in the matter of electronic health books has been recorded. That is why I think it is good that the deadline is extended and the deadline is exactly 31 December 2016, but that does not mean that work should not and cannot be completed in a shorter time. I believe that this time period provides enough space for us to work responsibly and systematically on electronic health cards, but also edit the entire health information system in a way that works effectively and benefit citizens and health workers, so that we do not have electronic cards, without readers or that we do not have a networked health and pharmacy. According to the Health Insurance Act, the cost of issuing a health card is borne by the insurance undertaking for itself and its family members, extremely, by the payer of the contribution, i.e. by another legal or physical person, or by the Republic Fund, may assume the obligation to pay the cost of issuing a health card. I believe that, in addition to the insurance company referred to in Article 22, what we could hear today, the Health Insurance Act, and also the Health Committee, which was held when this law was discussed in principle, should provide them with some other categories of free electronic cards and that the distribution of electronic cards should also be carried out through mail for citizens who cannot come and take them into the branch of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In view of the fact that the law itself has provided for that possibility, I believe that the Republic Fund should assume the obligation to pay the costs of issuing health cards for insured persons covered by Article 50. The Health Insurance Act, which is wartime military people with disabilities, peacetime military people with disabilities and civilian disabled war, blind faces and permanently immobilized persons, as well as those who make financial compensation for other people's assistance, care, other persons, as well as voluntary blood donors. In order for the economic and efficient compulsory health insurance not only to be the declared principle of any savings that are achieved through the improvement of the health system to the benefit of patients and to provide them with greater scope and quality of health insurance rights. The Committee on Health and Family on 4 September was discussed and we could hear from the Director of the Health Insurance Fund that electronic cards and electronic prescriptions were introduced in Mostar-Neretva County. The savings made on the cost of medicines 40% of some assumptions we could hear that if we did that and 30% if we had a savings, that would be about 100 million, which is already the euro mentioned today in the debate. At that time, we could further increase the rights for healthcare users, for example, the amount of compensation, profits from the most severe diseases, cancers, above all, could be 100% instead of the current 65% of the costs of transport, the malignancies could also be paid to patients when travelling from their place to another place within their home branch for a check-up, not only when they go to radiation, chemo and when they have to be treated daily or go to rehab. We could provide insurance to the Republic Fund for Health Insurance with greater rights to refund services, if these services cannot be provided to them in state institutions, above all I mean with magnetic resonance and CT checks, to reduce the significant waiting time and waiting lists, so if they do not come to order, they can refund from the Fund the costs paid by the privateer. Pensioners over 75 years of age with these savings could be automatically released from the payment of participations and services in state institutions. The competent authorities of the Republic Health Insurance Fund consider the issue of cards to be the basis for all future electronic health projects, from the appointment of a home check to the e-mailing of patients from one health institution to another. Such services are expected to significantly speed up the work of healthcare professionals, allow them to devote more time to the patient himself, and thus enable healthcare professionals to provide a better quality service. Given all these reasons, especially that health care as an organised and comprehensive activity of society has a fundamental objective of achieving in an effective way the widest possible level of preservation of citizens' health, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the adoption of a law amending the Health Insurance Act in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8661	Here you are, Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8662	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I believe that a member of 104 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which says – if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, citing his name or last name or function, etc. I think the chairman should have interrupted Mr. Martinovic, given that he was insultingly expressing himself in relation to my exposure. Namely, he said I didn't read Prime Minister Vukic's exposés. Last time I was in session when we were talking about the Higher Education Act, I said that this exposé was a sacred letter to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8663	You can't get through the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure now, you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8664	I'm talking about a broken Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8665	Otherwise, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is made immediately after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now even a whole discussion has passed before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8666	I was looking for a replica, but I didn't get one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8667	You didn't get it from the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8668	I didn't get a replica, I answered the Rules of Procedure, because I thought I had the right to a replica. Since the chairman gave his word to another, I'm right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8669	That's the rules, now you can't go after a colleague of Marjana Marash and her discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8670	I answered while she was talking. So, I answered the word, I didn't get the word, and I answered the Rules of Procedure, wanting to point out that Mr. Martinovic was hurt by insulting me personally by saying that I didn't read Mr. Vukic's exposés, and I said that it was a sacred letter to me. True, these exposures are unfortunately not respected by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8671	I thank you, but you can't speak from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, now what is respected, and what is not respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8672	You went into the O.R. to take my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8673	Don't be so sensitive, I really have no intention of giving or not giving a word, but I'm trying to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry that for some time I can recognize the intentions of many MPs to use the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure to replicate the moment they do not get the right to reply. But it is your right to quote members of the Rules of Procedure and ask whether to vote. You want to vote? (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Yes, I want to vote. ) The word has an MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8674	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Loncar, the Honorable Ladies of the Ministry of Health, gentlemen of the Ministry of Health, today we are discussing here a bill amending the Health Insurance Act that only one member is changing. But even with that change, I have several objections, suggestions and questions first of all, for Mr. Minister. I think it would be very useful for the minister to respond to both objections and suggestions, and to answer the questions I'm going to ask him. First of all, Mr. Lonchar, we've already discussed here, I think it was last week when you were visiting, and then I told you in relation to some other bill that I have language-style objections to the explanation that you're sending to the National Assembly for a proposal to amend some law. Last time, if you remember, we noticed that you in the explanation found that people in Serbia were dying of cause of death. You have not responded, and I expected that any further explanation would be much better in terms of the language we use here in the National Assembly. Now I see you're repeating, not identical, but a similar mistake. Here, for example, just to illustrate, and I just want to tell you, in the future, just take care of that argument. It is said – in the reasons for the adoption of the amendment, it says – the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to consider the real circumstances which suggest that... Wait, guys, what's this? Well, look out, please. Look, I think the following is that we are here in the Assembly and I ask you to avoid these negligences to our own language, because I think that this kind of negligence means negligence and to the legislative body, and especially to the people whom these changes are likely to benefit most from, and these are all citizens of Serbia. That's an objection. Now let's go to the motions, Mr. Secretary. It is about books that are now to be started, that is, whose delay is required by these amendments. Look, these cards we now want to introduce by 31 December 2016, they're in my understanding, I'm not a doctor, as a layman now I'm speaking, I've consulted a little, they're a technical thing, but they're also a reflection of something. I think this situation about cards is a reflection that we're not dealing with some of the principles on which we need to base the transformation of the health system. Mr. Lonchar, my suggestion is that when you enter into the discussion of this transformation now, and I think we're already late with it, that you must take care at least of the following five principles that I want to present here, one, I think we should have more efficient spending on health insurance. Do you agree? If so, how are we going to do that? Secondly, I believe that one of the principles on which this transformation of the health system should be based should be the following – the promotion, development and modernisation of medical facilities in regional centres in order to provide equal health care in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I have another principle, since I'm running out of time, we only have five minutes, so I'm going to cut short, three of which I'm going to mention to you, but this third one is particularly important to us. The healthcare center should be a family doctor and that is the basis of the health care system that we are proposing to you here. Please, I think these principles are important. You said before, but it could not be done overnight. You can't do it overnight. I agree that it can't be done overnight, but Mr. Lonchar, it had to be done, if something couldn't be done overnight, that what we had to do, that we really did. Here's Dr. Milisavljevic here said that we have been here for a month in a legal offense, because the government in some way, I believe, has humiliated the dignity of the National Assembly by not having the conditions to discuss this change by 9 August. Be careful, if you tell us by this example – it is not so important that the law is respected, then I conclude that you are not seriously focused on these principles on which the transformation of the health system in Serbia should be based. I have one terrible mistrust, when I add this negligence to the language, compared to the National Assembly, compared to the citizens of Serbia, I think the picture of unseriousness and irresponsibility is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8675	Thank you. The word is Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8676	Honorable presidents, respected ministers, respected state secretaries and members of his team, I am, above all, provoked by a part of the presentation of opposition MPs. I see some exposure of opposition MPs as running away from the essence, and so on. For the last 15 years, the political elite has basically robbed and betrayed the state. She betrayed the nation, the people, betrayed every family. From a medical point of view, i.e. a medical jargon, we've been beaten by hands and feet, broken by skulls, but we've suffered and ashamed of yours to entertain ourselves in the lack of work, so I can see that story, so today they're not talking about the essence of the law and the significant details and moments that are related to the law, you've all heard what's being said here today. I'm really going to move on to today's assembly session. Personally, I believe that the introduction of electronic health books as personal documents into the legal system is primarily the need for an insurance company to have adequate access to the health system, which is safe, comfortable, above all. That's the point. What's also important is that information society is a priority. First of all, it's a standard and a reality and a demand for the time in which we live and the introduction of information technologies, first of all we can say that they are imperative. The legal basis for introducing health insurance cards is in all positive regulations and strategies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the Health Insurance Act. The replacement of paper documents by electronic means is absolutely one process, part of the process of compliance with European standards. It's not just about the electronic health book, I'm talking about the ID card, the driver's license, the traffic license, the passport, and we, as part of our compliance with European standards, need to bring together the documentation we're talking about. However, I would also like to point out the question in the European Commission questionnaire, in particular Chapter 2 which speaks of the freedom of movement of workers. The European Health Insurance Card and question 37 reads – Do you have an electronic national health book and, if you do not have one, do you plan to introduce it in what period of time? The government then responded, giving the following answer, no electronic national health book has yet been introduced in the Republic of Serbia. During 2010, a pilot project will be implemented to replace health insurance documents through the introduction of an electronic health book to insured persons from the territory of the town of Valjevo. It is planned to start in 2011 with a succesive replacement, i.e. by introducing an electronic health book for all insured persons on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This procedure is expected to be completed on 30 June 2012, i.e. by 1 July 2012, all insured persons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are expected to have electronic health books. ‘However, I would like to stress that health information and the introduction of an electronic health book in general has much greater importance for us and our health system and the state for the following reasons. I am speaking now and in this way I will answer all these opposition MPs who have asked what this will mean for our citizens? Here's what it's going to mean for our citizens to introduce this document. First, a high degree of security. When we talk about a high degree of security, the fact is that on that card, macroscopically, we will see only the name and last name, the date of birth and the LBO number that is significant to the Republic Fund. So that's not where you see all the personal ones, let's say, vital data related to the insurance company, starting with the basics of insurance, home number, residence, etc. This is very important to me because this is how personal data is stored and protected. Then, automation process overe. The introduction of electronic health cards, you get again in this field a lot, because when you deposit the contributions, the cards themselves will automatically restore their validity date, it is very important. Therefore, there will be no stickers, there will be no release of new documents, but an electronic view of who paid out the employers' contributions and thus immediately and in this document will be seen until when the document is valid. What's very important is that financial part that I'm going to talk about later, now I'm talking about these other benefits that this card provides. So no more stick marks, waiting on RFO counters, no more spending all those resources like paper, toners, etc. So it's about the benefits of that nature. Then, the card's been valid for 10 years. A new health card will allow changing the place of residence, changing personal data without the physical replacement of the document, it has not been possible so far. Any change related to the insurance data had to be followed by the release of a new document. Now these data are changing in the RFO database, and after that with the same document, practically the patient goes into the health system. Then help the weak-sighted. This will be one of the few documents that they will have on them, that is, containing Bray’s alphabet, and thus we will help the undersighted to use this very important document. Then more time for patients. How? We have not only witnessed that there are lines not only for a doctor, but order for overu recipes, order for handing over books, for carrying out cardboard, etc. This way, the simple way through the system reduces this period of administration, so that the doctor will have much more time for the patient than it was before. It is then easier to verify the validity of the documentation itself, i.e. health books. First of all, a simple check will be made because by direct run through the system you will see as far as that book is concerned. Now I'm going to say more about the savings. Each year, the Republic Fund replaces about 2.2 million paper books, primarily for the purpose of changing residences, changes in any status related to the insurance company. The annual price, the annual cost is 45 million dinars. Those expenses will be no more. Also, what is very important is savings related to the employer. Every year, the procedures for the stamps are close to 400 million dinars. This way, practically, this procedure will no longer cost you anything. So, savings are measured by millions of dinarizing this vital document. In parallel with the introduction of an electronic book, it is the introduction of complete information on the health system, an integrated information system through which, firstly, a large number of insurance data will be stored, citizens' data in one database, where all the data that are relevant to the matter I'm talking about will be kept. On the other hand, such electronic records of the rights that insurance companies exercise in health institutions will be established that the Republic Fund will at any moment have a record of the right of compulsory health insurance by the insurance company in a particular health institution, which is, you will agree, perhaps a crucial thing in saving them in the best possible way. I absolutely support the minister's decision and the decision of the people who run the health system to have the electronic health card supported and recognised in the system. Now I'd like to answer a few questions I've heard from the opposition MPs. One question was the delay in law enforcement. I absolutely agree that there's been a delay. If we look at when the contract was concluded between the NBS, on the one hand, and the RFZO, on the other hand, on 2 February 2010, which was, therefore, before the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, and came into force on 9 August 2011, so it was the time of the absolute rule of the former regime, the subject of this contract is the service of making personalisation, distribution of health cards in a total amount of seven million pieces, as well as the dynamics of delivery. The first phase until 30 June 2010, the second phase of 30 June 2012, when the project was planned to be completed. What is most important, the single price agreed in the basic contract is 5.16 euros. So, this job that was started and designed to end by 30 June 2012 left us with the former regime, with them making it an optimal way to edit the health system, and now suddenly it's not. What is also important about the delay in these deadlines is that such an atmosphere has been created in the public that the introduction of this document has been criticised for the economic crisis, the financial situation, without seeing the advantages of the savings that citizens have by introducing this document. This is also confirmed by the views of the Commissioner for Information of importance, Mr Saša Jankovic, but also Mr Dusan Milisavljevic, then chairman of the Health Committee, who were fiercely opposed to the introduction of this document. There's also a stenogram from the Health Committee's session. I'd ask a question after I read that record, how is that possible? Here, I'll read it. Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic said: "I have a positive attitude towards introducing a unique information system in Serbia, networking all institutions in health care and introducing an electronic health card to treat patients, but I do not support the introduction of electronic health books, and that the EU recommendation is misread." I have a few questions. How is it possible that the president of the Health Committee then suggested not to respect the law that the Assembly passed? In addition, how can a unique information system, electronic cardboard, prescription, etc. be introduced without the introduction of an electronic book? I think we're serious enough and aware enough that one without another really isn't going and that this is one system where if one component is not done, the whole system will be questioned. Dr. Milisavljevic radically changes his attitude. I have now seen that he submitted an amendment proposing a reduction of the time limit for issuing electronic cards - instead of December 31st 2016 on December 31st 2015. I heard a question about the price of health cards. First, I'm going to talk about the procedural part of how the price is formed. So, the RFZO Management Board, which numbers 21 members, puts forward a proposal, also goes to the Ministry of Health and Finance and the Ministry of Labour and the Secretariat for Law. So it has to go a few steps to get to the government. The proposal that stands by part of the opposition MPs is that the card itself is free of charge. If it's by that logic that the issue of health cards is free of charge, let alone free of charge of ID cards. There's a price of 1,300 dinars. Why isn't that free? Why aren't the credit cards in the banks free? Why does the Guardian have no objections that banks change cards every three years and citizens have to pay? There's a few other questions to ask. First, is it possible to issue cards without money? Secondly, who's going to pay for it and from what means? Third, how is it possible that while they were in power they had a completely different opinion? How is it that the contract that was made, made during their government between MBS and RFZO, concluded on February 2, 2010, defined a price that is 5.16 euros without VAT, and now requires that the cards be free of charge? How is it possible to be so adept in these political attitudes? Then how come the blame for all this is being transferred to someone else? These are all questions for which there is only a political answer on their part, not a professional one. What is also important, and this is mentioned as a question of this period from 9 August to today's session, the issue of achieving insurance rights from compulsory health insurance. First of all, what is most important for our citizens, for the citizens of our country who are watching this assembly session today, is that in both this period and the next period until these electronic cards are issued, they will exercise their mandatory health insurance rights regularly and will not be damaged by anything. So the point of the whole story is that this is how multiple benefits are realized that I mentioned earlier. Also, during the period until the new health records are obtained, and electronic cards, insurance companies will absolutely achieve all health care from compulsory health insurance in accordance with all the rules and laws of this country. So my message to the citizens is that the health system will definitely be different, more precise, better and faster when we realize what I'm talking about today. It should also not be particularly stressed, I think it was also said that no country had first developed services for which the use of the card was necessary, and only then introduced the card. I'd like to finish my presentation with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8677	Thank you. (Dusan Milisavljevic: From the city. Replica. I'm mentioned. He didn't mention you once. Dusan Milisavljevic has not been mentioned once. Can I give your president of the parliamentary group a word to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you'll excuse me? The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8678	Madam President, Article 107. Let me add that Dr. Milisavljevic is directly mentioned. Member of 107, because the previous speaker, Dr. Laketic, at the beginning of his presentation, which you missed, you did not hear, because I am sure you would react, said that members of the former regime, quote - were breaking the skull to the citizens of Serbia and passing on your shames. You were in this situation obliged to interrupt him and give him a warning immediately. I believe that, absolutely in every segment, by pronunciating such words, the MP came out of the context of a civilized conversation, expressed himself in the most best way about political opponents and put a label in the spirit of eugenics that some of the SNS are conducting and advocated for it and for the Berminisation or pestilence of political opponents, and it is known to apply either the opening or the poison or the disruptor or the pole. So I think you're in this case for someone who's been educated, who's graduated from college and who's a doctor of medical science to say something like this about a political opponent and not reacting to it in this assembly, absolutely inadmissible. I ask you to respond and give a man a warning, for something like this other than a warning can't be justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8679	Dr. Laketich, you can't get a replica, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't recognize the replica. I really didn't hear those words, I'd react. I wouldn't give a warning, but I would react. I'd interrupt the MP. I couldn't say it or say it in advance so I could react. It's just conjecture. I'll also ask for a stenogram to make sure of it. Any strong words, you know that I'm always responding and that I think it's inappropriate for this home to address each other with offensive expressions. The People's MP Dusan Milisavljevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8680	Art. 103 and 104. Under Article 103, the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. Dear President, you've given me your word on purpose or on purpose many times. And this time I signed up and you won't give me a word. Article 104, the MP four times mentioned my name in a negative context. You didn't react. You're still saying you haven't heard him mention my name. You have a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8681	Here you go. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8682	Dear President, the honourable fellow MP and my colleague, the doctor, have deceived the public. I was with the Protector of the right of citizens against and at that moment when he cited it against, when he quoted my words, I was against having citizens pay anything, I was against such a health book as I am now. The health book must have a reason to introduce it. The electronic health book must have a reason to introduce it. We were talking about the medical records back then, the information system that I'm really up for. Without that, we can't do a lot of things. But the health book, what was the intention of introducing it a year and a half, two, I think maybe it's changed a little bit now, is quite different. There's a difference in price, and there's a difference in purpose. You're making sure we don't twist the facts. Sir, when he mentions his colleague Milisavljevic, he should understand that he was the assistant health minister when Mrs Slavica Djukić Dejanovic was in charge of public health, so I ask why did you not introduce these health books? It's not all DS's fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8683	Thank you. (Darko Laketić: Replica. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... He mentioned you, but it's not offensive. I have to have the same session with each other. You're not meant to be offensive. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8684	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Minister, according to this discussion, and since I have very little time, about three minutes, I will try to sublime what we've been talking about since 10.00 hours and what's the point of what we're talking about. For those citizens who have just now become involved in the transposition of the Second RTS Programme, we are now discussing the amendment of the Health Protection Act, which is due to take place in 2011 and was the end of 2014, replacing electronic cards, i.e. Our classic books are replaced by an electronic card, moved to 2016. I see that the congregation majority will support that. What we insisted on and what I personally asked Mr. Minister to take into consideration and consider the possibilities, is that this deadline should not be in 2016 for a reason, Mr. Minister, you said in one sentence that the Fund can't do anything without the Ministry's decision and that you are absolutely right, absolutely. It is your job as minister, with assistants, state secretaries, whoever works at the Ministry, to run a health policy and to create a health policy, to make it more efficient, more accessible and so that Serbian citizens have benefits from the ministry and from the entire health system, not to issue cards. Yours is to give the Health Fund a warrant to issue the cards. The Health Fund, if you've listened carefully to me, there are over 100 electronic engineers who can write a program, a unique program of electronic cardboard, which is a need none exists, because now and that we want to network, we can't, because the programs aren't the same, they're not identical. I'm a layman for that area, but that's what computer-related people say. On the other hand, I insist that Serbian citizens do not pay the same cost twice. We pay contributions to health care and it is understood that within the healthcare system we do not pay cards, because it is one way of providing services. It'd be like if doctors came out now, changed stethoscopes, and now we're paying for different stethoscopes. Why? Why should we pay for it? Besides, we have a finding that there's money in the Health Fund. That's what the former finance minister said. I'm counting on the majority who voted then to cut the percentage of health insurance standing behind their decisions three months ago. So, the 300m euros we transferred don't need to be in the Health Fund, because there's money in health care. Why would the citizens pay extra cards? What the banknote-making office gave him, he didn't give it away. That's our money. One question - who could have made a political decision that there was no complaint at the Bureau for making bills? Who has that power? If it's anything to complain about, it was the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Who made the decision not to sue? Who did the damage to the Bureau for making bills? It's not a question and a topic for you. It's your organisation of health care. It's for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8685	Time. Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8686	President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, since I am from the world of health, I will start with that old Latin that this ministry must start from the very beginning, which would tell Latini Ab this, or from the egg, because everything that has been degraded or that has been broken down for the last 15 years has led to absurdity. This ministry passed the Staff Act a few days ago, along with the MPs and the parliamentary majority. It is necessary to have high-level personnel that the previous regime has completely ignored and that have practically gone too old and have come to the end of its working century, so that they can deal with reforms, so that we can get into change, so that someone can bring out what is called the health system and health care in Serbia, which has been practically completely destroyed for the last 15 years. The second segment is that the introduction of electronic health books quickly reaches out to how many insured persons we have, how many potential healthcare users we have, to be precise in one place and to be available with all their data to those who use them. Therefore, to introduce order, it is necessary to have personnel and it is necessary to have records of healthcare users. One of my predecessors from the previous regime in his speech said, given what's called a delay in the application of electronic cards dating back to the year 2008, to quote, just as we were about to take power, it wouldn't have worked. At first, it sounded a little narcissistic to me, but since I know what's been going on all these years, my colleague mentioned that in 2008 to 2009, the Fund received a hundred engineers who needed to build a program and system for this electronic record management, books and health systems, and that they hadn't done it since 2008 or they haven't received a warrant to do or didn't work. I wonder what they were actually doing, why they were getting paid, if since 2008, what were highly skilled people who were employed and didn't make that system? By the way, according to the data I own, the Health Fund is a billion and 800m euros a year to two billion 300, different sources provide different data. If we consider two billion to be a medium figure, it's really fascinating, if you take that 20 billion euros or 20 billion dollars have been spent in ten years, and that one respectable health system, as you say now, has been brought to the brink of destruction, to the worst health system in Europe, as it has succeeded. Some people would make a whole new health system for 20 billion euros if there was no hospital, no home of health, for ten years, and the previous regime has managed to make what has worked, quite successfully, in ten years' time, collapse to that level that we are now trying from the beginning, from the egg, to create a system that will function and provide health care to our population. It was done very perfidiously. I can tell you that there have been many, many different ways and insights from the most banal, from a medical book that you now, when you go to the counter on those old patterns and old systems, to verify the health book, you will first get a note to tell you – come in three days, or in seven days, or in 15 days, then when you come, you will say, but the employer is not networked, so we have no information about whether he paid the contributions, so take a walk to it, so avoid about 20, 30% of people walking from the Fund to the hospital, so they go into private practice. When you multiply by 100,000 views during the day and take into account the game of large numbers, you get to the first information about how people in public health are transferred where some other people take money. The same thing happens to patients who come from another city. Everyone runs away like there's a plague inside or someone with Ebola, because they don't know how to justify the health care they've provided, if it's someone from the next town, let alone from someone else. Emergency cases are also treated so that if they're from a foreign center, they start running away from them, if they're not sure they'll justify taking that treatment with them. The transport of patients must also be certified by the chosen doctor. You have a situation where, when you're firing patients from hospital treatment, you have to take him to his chosen doctor, to a village or wherever he lives, so that he can get a transfer order, and get him back to the hospital, so he can come back to sanity. The chosen doctor, too. In the home of health you have 10 or 15 colleagues who work, and only two or three have patients, so the patient comes, says – your chosen doctor doesn't work, he's sick, he's on vacation, and the others who don't work are unemployed. It's a wonderful manipulation for accomplishing, under quotes, profits in the health system, which is spent on other things, not on treating patients. A system of reception, a list of medications that someone put on just certain medications. I'm not sure if it would give doctors the freedom to prescribe medications by indications, to spend more than when someone else chooses medications that will be given for a particular illness. Such examples could be very much. I don't want to keep this high house. I think this is the ministry of staff and willing to deal with these problems. I hope that all together we can reform and raise this health care that has indeed fallen to very low branches in the last 15 years, and during the rule of the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8687	The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8688	Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which represents an extension of the deadline. When I read this change, the first thing that fell into my eyes was a man or a limited deadline. So it's clear and precise, 31.12.2016. Why? In the so many times mentioned exposé of the prime minister, we have heard that this government will deal with reforms, that it will set goals in all spheres. Now that we're talking about the health system, we'll have clear deadlines. We can't talk like we did in the past three months, six months or a year. It is clearly spoken here, and these goals are clearly set before us. When we talk about the Health Insurance Act, we can talk in two directions. The first direction is the free trade zone, and the second direction is the harmonisation of our legislation, the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, with EU rights. Today we're talking about electronic cards. We're going to step up with Europe. We are moving forward with information technologies, and for these very reasons we need to bring this electronic card into line with our health system, with our electronic healthcare system, with the information health system, so that it can be made available to all citizens. Here I will say only in one sentence – they do not need Serbian citizens to be afraid and to think about whether they will have available treatment. Now I'd like to look back on 2012. Not to be wrong, I think it's the beginning of 2012. We have a report from the European Commission. The European Commission report says no positive step has been taken in the health system of the Republic of Serbia regarding electronic health books. Gentlemen, on February 2, 2010, a treaty was signed between the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic Fund to move forward with these electronic cards. There's nothing done about it. Now we're talking about benefits. The benefits here are numerous. We have the possibility for regional branches to take responsibility for themselves, to participate in making these cards, to take responsibility from parent institutions, or companies, and to make these cards. What we heard today, first of all from you, Mr. Minister, is that the Coin made a million and 200 of those cards. They will be divided into the most endangered categories of our population, and we all know, in this difficult time, that we inherited, how much it will mean to our fellow citizens. What else do I want to point out? The price of those electronic cards. The previous period talked about a price of 700 dinars, and now the price is about 400 dinars. Is that what we need to talk about? Is this something that this government has done wrong, or are you a resolute ministry? In order for me not to repeat all the stories that were told, first of all from the Ministry and from my colleagues, I have to look back at one fact, that we, for the first time, and just as the prime minister said, were going to reform. As a doctor, I've often been exposed to some criticism that we doctors, and today we've heard it, one or another, do this or that. In just 10 days, we've brought in two amendments to the health system and health insurance laws that we're talking about today. They went out a week ago to meet the youngest doctors that they would be able to apply for specialization after all the training they were due to announce, they wouldn't have to work for two years. Today we're talking about health books. This government and the Ministry and all the people involved in this system take care of all categories, and of the most vulnerable and most sensitive, these are the sick people, whom we, as the people who took the Hippocratic oath, must first and foremost take care of, and of one category of people, health workers. We all know that we've been marginalized lately, that we've been exposed to some pressures, I hope that in the next period we won't let that happen, that you won't let such a trend continue, and if we have a satisfied patient, if we have a satisfied and a health care professional, we will have a successful, modern and quality health care. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8689	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8690	Thank you. Dear Presidents, members of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be really brief and stick to the agenda, and the agenda point is to amend the Health Insurance Act. With this amendment to the Health Insurance Act, it is very clear after this many discussions, the extension of the deadline for the replacement of changes on insurance and special instruments for the use of health care, which will be carried out by 31 December 2016 at the latest. What do we get by amending the Health Insurance Act? Some of the colleagues have said that, we get first of all, the technical possibility that all citizens, all insurance companies, can temporarily replace medical protection documents. This does not endanger the functioning of a health care system and compulsory health insurance. This law prevents the possibility of potentially harmful consequences resulting from the organisation of health insurance and planned means of compulsory health insurance for 2014, 2015 and 2016. As a result, this law is also adopted by means of an emergency procedure. In this way, the RFO is obliged to replace an electronic card insurance device by 31.12.2016 at the latest. Until that date, insurance undertakings may exercise their compulsory health insurance rights on the basis of an insurance document and special means for the use of healthcare which shall be valid until the date of entry into force of this law. He would point out what one of his colleagues said, one populist attitude, why aren't they free electronic cards? The government predicted that possibility, in fact, did not nail the possibility that all citizens, or that part of the population that wasn't involved in paying for the electronic card. I will state the position and justification of the Government itself, which is the fourth position – an assessment of the financial resources needed to implement this law. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional appropriations in the 2014 budget, given that Articles 112, paragraphs 3 and 4. The health education law stipulates that spending on issuing a health card is borne by an insurance company for itself and by members of his family. However, in view of the fact that the position of the 5th said member requires that an extremely binding payment, i.e. contribution, second legal or natural person, or RFZO may assume the obligation to pay the costs of issuing a health card. This means that if there are funds in the budget, all insurance companies will meet and free electronic card will be provided. Of course, in voting day, and I call on all parliamentary groups to support these amendments and additions to the law. The SNS Parliament Club will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8691	There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. I would like to ask the President or the representatives of the parliamentary groups under Article 96 before concluding the search in principle. Rules of Procedure? I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. I'm setting a regular break, and we'll continue at 4:00 p.m., on the agenda. [[after breaks]] Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the context of a joint and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 8 to 25 of the agenda, I have called on the sittings of Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Goran Matic, Director of the National Security and Security Council Office... I'm asking the service to check out who's banging and doesn't know we're having a follow-up session. And they're gonna check it out right now, so we can do it the right way. None of the MPs. ... Mr Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Mr Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Zoran Milošević, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračna and Social Affairs, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Saša Stojanović, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Zlatko Mirikić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Roxand Ninčić, Ambassador and Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Milanka Davidović, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment and Security of the Skrabrović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice, Colonel Milan Konjiković, Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Defence and Security and Security of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers of Croatia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, I'm asking the security detail to come out and check out what's going on outside the O.R. so we can continue on with our work. ... Dragana Milovanovic, head of the Department for International Co-operation and Strategic Planning in the Republic Water Directorate, Biljana Randelovic, head of the Department of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Sinisa Kotur, Head of the Department for International Transport and Certification of the Veterinary Administration, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management Ivana Magdic, Assistant Director of Public Debt Management Aleksandar Kocić Rangelović, adviser of Public Debt Management and Olivera Ružić Poparić, an independent adviser in the Budget Sector of the Ministry of Finance. The only way the president can get out of the O.R. and check on what's going on. People's MPs are getting it. No, the Secretary of Defense can't get out. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts under points 8 to 25 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and Article 192(3), and in accordance with Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information; on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and of the Council of the Treaty on the Protection of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic on the Exchange of Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the Exchange of Security of Secret Information; on the Proposal for the Security Measures of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States relating to the Security Act on the Protection of the Cross-Cresion of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Tunisia; on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia; on the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Looks like security can't solve our problem. We've said it twice already. Third time. Otherwise, the president of parliament will have to deal with the problem of noise and inability to work normally in this building. One moment. Dear People's Messengers, we'll pretend he's not banging. I note that on the proposal for a Decision on the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in a UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic and the EU military operation in the Central African Republic in 2014, it is in accordance with Article 161 and Article 193 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Babic, submitted an amendment that was distributed to you in the hall, which is in point 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This amendment shall not be subject to a special examination in particular, but shall be conducted in the context of a single review of the proposal for a decision, which shall include at the same time the conduct of a principled search and search in particular, in accordance with the provisions of Article 170(2), Article 192(3) and Article 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I note that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision, given that it has been accepted by a representative of the motions and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposal's representative, Bratislava Gasic, want the defence minister? Here you go, Minister, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8693	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, international co-operation in the field of exchange and protection of classified information, our country has begun by concluding an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation of the North-Atlantic Pact on the Security of Information and Code of Conduct, the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and the International Treaties No 6 of 2011 and the conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the Security of Procedures for the Exchange and Protection of Secret Information, the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and the International Contracts No. 1st of 2012 For the purpose of applying this agreement, a central registry for foreign secret information was established in the National Security and Security Council office, as well as a pre-registration in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Mission of the Republic of Serbia to NATO in Brussels and the Mission of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA. The exchange of classified information with NATO and the EU, regardless of the agreements have been confirmed, began only when the central register and sub-registries in the pre-mentioned missions, ministries and other bodies were formed and passed a certification visit to the NATO expert team, and then the EU. Given that there are already capacities within the upcoming registers in our country, the same procedure that has been applied for the purposes of sharing classified information with NATO and the EU will be applied to other countries, which means that for the extension of existing registration capacities, unless there is sufficient, special agreement between the Serbian and other Contracting Parties, then to make a certification visit to both countries' expert teams that will ensure that all security conditions for keeping classified information in the central register and sub-registries in other countries are met. In this regard, the Republic of Serbia has so far signed a total of nine agreements of this type, and with a number of countries it is initiated to sign agreements that are in different stages of agreeing the texts and obtaining the opinions of the relevant state authorities in order to end the prescribed legal procedure for conclusion. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, the co-operation initiative came from the Slovenian side. The first visit to the delegation of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Secret Information, headed by Director Milan Tarman, was presented at 22nd. 11. 2010 The first negotiations to conclude the agreement were held in Ljubljana between 20 and 23. 02. In 2012, on the basis of the text of the agreement proposed by the Slovenian side. The agreement with the Republic of Slovenia was signed in Belgrade on 2 October 2013. The bill to confirm the Security Agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, co-operation with BiH began immediately after the establishment of the National Security Council Office and the protection of classified information. In 2010, two visits aimed at getting acquainted with the way the register works for foreign secret data in BiH, as well as experiences with the exchange of classified information with the EU and NATO. Following intensive co-operation in 2011 and two meetings held, the need to conclude an international interstate agreement has been recognised. In 2012, the Bosnian side submitted the text of the Security Agreement, a visit to the National Security Council Office and the protection of classified information was made on 6 June 2012, when agreement was reached on the text of the agreement. The agreement with BiH was signed in Belgrade on 7 November 2013. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, on the initiative of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, Director of the National Security and Protection Council of Secret Information, has made contact with the Director of the Directorate for the Protection of Secret Data of the Republic of Macedonia, Lidija Kostovski. A co-operation agreement and the need to conclude the agreement was reached in Warsaw in November 2011 on the sidelines of a conference organised by the Visegrad Group on a system for the protection of classified information. Also, a visit to Skopje was agreed, and in preparation for the visit, the Macedonian side submitted a draft agreement. The agreement with the Republic of Macedonia was signed in Belgrade on 28 February 2014. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of data, on the initiative of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and on the need to conclude an agreement that will cover the area of exchange and protection of classified information, the Office of the National Security and Security Council established contact and co-operation with the Office for National Security of the Czech Republic. A visit from the Director of the Office, Dr Goran Matic, to Prague, was organised between 18th and 20th June 2012, when it was agreed to work on the conclusion of the agreement. The Czech side took the initiative and submitted the draft agreement. The agreement with the Czech Republic was signed in Belgrade on 13 May 2013. Point 12 – Before us today is the Proposal for a Decision on the application and participation of the Serbian Army in UN peace operations in the Central African Republic and the EU military operation in the Central African Republic in 2014 and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, that is point 24, with regard to security measures for the protection of classified information; point 12. Recently, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has made two significant decisions defining the participation of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014, the Decision adopting the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and the Decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. The subject of the decision and participation in two listed multinational operations is later considered for the reason that the UN and EU call for participation in those multinational operations was subsequently submitted after a complete procedure preceding the adoption of the annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 was implemented by the National Assembly. The UN and EU call concerns the engagement of mostly medical facilities, 68 members of the two-level Polish hospital in the UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic and six members of the EU's military operation in the Central African Republic, providing complete medical equipment on the ground for the recruitment of UN and EU people. In addition to medical staff, the motion for a decision includes the involvement of two staff officers and two military observers. Serbia's military has so far failed to participate in UN peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic and EU military operations in the Central African Republic. Priced the quality and expertise of our medical staff, shown during the long-term involvement of medical facilities in multinational operations in Congo, Chad, Somalia, the UN and the EU have made a decision to give the Republic of Serbia priority when supplying bids for engagement. According to the latest information, obtained from the UN and EU competent structures, the launch of an EU military operation in the Central African Republic and a UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic is expected in September of this year. The implementation of this decision requires funding of 74,320,000 dinars, which are provided by law in the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget under the Department of Defence and from payments to be made by the UN in the name of compensation for the participation of members of the Serbian Army in UN peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic in 2014. Under the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on security measures for the protection of classified information, I must point out that bilateral military co-operation remains the best part of the overall bilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the United States. According to its content, the number of cooperation programmes, joint activities, this co-operation precedes other countries of the world. The most important cooperation programmes are in the area of the National Partnership Programme with the People's Guard of Ohio, the Education and Training Programme, the Foreign Army Assistance Programme in the procurement of military equipment, with the National Guard Ojah on the development of the South base and with the US Maritime School of Civil-military Relations Centro in Montreal. A mixed commission on defence reform has also been established. With this in mind, the development and strengthening of bilateral military co-operation is realistically expected, especially through greater participation in joint training and exercises. The conclusion of an international agreement on security measures for the protection of classified military data, i.e. the adoption of the proposed law, primarily creates the possibility of a more serious involvement of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in joint training and exercises, but also in the work of multinational headquarters and multinational missions. As a result, an agreement was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government on security measures to protect classified military data on 27 January 2014 in order to contribute to the development of the two countries' overall bilateral relations in Washington. That Agreement sets between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States the basic objectives that seek to achieve and the principles on which co-operation in the area of exchange will be established and secret military information protected. The primary objective of the proposed law, i.e. the conclusion of the Agreement, is to establish a legal framework that would enable the parties to co-operate, as well as their competent authorities, i.e. the Ministry of Defence in the field of exchange and protection of classified military data. The signed Agreement shall include the definition of classified information as well as the definition of equivalent degrees of secrecy, the definition of the Ministry of Defence as competent authorities for the implementation of the Agreement, the obligations of the Contracting Parties and their competent authorities during the exchange and protection of classified military data, the decision and procedure during the issue of security permits, industrial security, as well as transitional and final provisions. Also, given that the American side does not know the equivalent of the degree of secrecy "internally". The component of the Agreement constitutes an additive which relates precisely to the procedure for handling data with the designation ‘internal’ in the United States. The agreement was drawn up in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, as well as the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. Point 13. In the area of social security between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, a convention is applied between the government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of the National Republic of Hungary on the regulation of social security issues and their citizens, signed on 7 October 1957. In view of the changes created in both Contracting States as well as the need for further development and consolidation of friendly relations and co-operation in all areas, as well as in the area of social security, it has been assessed as meaningful and mutually useful to approach negotiations to conclude a new social security agreement, as well as a new administrative agreement for the application of the Agreement. The agreement is a comprehensive international agreement regulating areas of pension and disability insurance, health insurance and health care, labour injuries and occupational diseases, motherhood and unemployment insurance. The agreed agreement contains solutions that are consistent with changes in the national laws of the two countries, as well as the latest European standards in this area that will allow insurance and users the highest protection of their rights. The agreement is based on the generally acceptable principles and experiences of our country in this area, as well as the standards provided for by EU Regulation No 883/04 that regulate the social security of immigrant workers. The standard solution and the principles that are represented through the provisions of the Agreement are as follows: equal treatment of nationals of Contracting States in the field of social security. This principle means that the citizens of another country are treated in the same way as their own citizens, i.e. under the same conditions they have the rights and obligations of compulsory social security. Direct payment of bankruptcy payments to the user who has obtained the right to give in place of his residence, pension and other rights. The point of this principle is that the use of compulsory social security rights does not remain limited in the territory in which those rights are exercised. This principle provides payment on the territory of another Contracting State. The collection of insurance periods completed in both Contracting States in order to exercise the right to pension or cash compensation if the completed insurance service on the territory of one Contracting State is not sufficient to exercise the right in a given case, that State shall take into account and the internship completed in another Contracting State. This enables the concept of a unique century regardless of its work and the achievement of insurance in two countries. The very height of the right will depend only on the profit and the basis of the rights made under the legislation that gives rise to the right. There is a general rule that pensions are determined in proportion to the length of the insurance standings in a particular country. Use of health care for a person who has residence or residence on the territory of another State Contracting Party, tourists, pensioners, detached workers. The insurance principle that allows the social security burden to be borne by that country whose insurance policy is at stake. The Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary signed in Budapest on 29 November 2013 for the Republic of Serbia, Rade Drobac, Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia, for Hungary Andras Donchev, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs at the Ministry of Human Resources. The agreement between the two countries is of paramount importance in the area of social security, primarily because of citizens of Serbia living and working in Hungary and working in Serbia, and which allow the conclusion of the agreement to exercise its rights in this area. The entry into force of this Agreement shall cease to apply to the Convention between the Government of the FNRJ and the Government of the People's Republic of Hungary concerning the arrangements for the issue of social security of their citizens, the "Official Journal" of the FNRJ Supplement 08, 1958 and 5 of 1959, the "Official Journal" of the SFRY International Contracts and other agreements No 3/60, 9/64 and 33/75. Point 14. The agreement on trade and economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Tunisia was signed in Tunisia on 5 March 2014 by foreign ministers of the two countries Ivan Mrkic and Moždej Hamdi. The reasons for confirming that agreement are contained in the wish of the signatories of the agreement to institutionalise on new grounds and continue to develop the area of trade and economic co-operation between the two countries in line with changes in the business conditions of their economies. Based on the basic market principles applicable in international trade, which is in line with domestic legislation in force in both countries. The entry into force of this Agreement ceases to be an existing trade and long-term natural co-operation agreement between the SFRY and the Republic of Tunisia signed in Belgrade on 28 November 1964. The Agreement shall be of a classical, standard type for this type of agreement, on the basis of the actual content of all the necessary elements to be covered by one such agreement. The agreement provides for measures and actions to be proposed and taken towards improving overall economic co-operation and to address problems that may potentially arise in the process of co-operation. It should be pointed out that this agreement assigns the treatment of the most privileged nation in relation to exports and imports of originating goods from the territory of their countries in accordance with the principles of the General Agreement on Customs and Trade. Certain exemptions from the application of this treatment have been provided for. This is particularly important to us because the Republic of Serbia has not yet become a member of 100. The agreement also envisions the establishment of a mixed inter-state inter-state Commission for Economic Co-operation as an effective form of communication at the state and economic level between the two countries. The bilateral and economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with Tunisia have a long tradition and are not interrupted even at the time of sanctions against the SRJ. The Republic of Serbia is interested in developing economic co-operation with the Republic of Tunisia in all areas of common interest especially in the area of investment construction, the Hidrotechnicals-Hydroenergy from Belgrade has been present on this market since 1966, where it has successfully carried out works in the area of construction of hydroenergy facilities. So far, they've built ten big dams, and they currently have two active contracts. Agriculture, veterinary, pharmaceutical industry, military-economic co-operation and tourism, given the complementarity of the economy, the geographical proximity and membership of the two countries in the region are Euromeditated. For these reasons, the above-mentioned agreement is an important element of future co-operation with Tunisia that will create an opportunity for the greater involvement of our businessmen in co-operation with this country. Investment of Tunisian capital in the economy in the Republic of Serbia, and thus to improve and expand overall economic trade co-operation. Point 15. The 25th World Postal Federation Congress, held between 24 September and 15 October 2012 in Doha, was attended by a delegation from the Republic of Serbia, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Postal Traffic, the Regulatory Body in the area of postal services, as well as representatives of the public postal operator of the then Ministry of Foreign and Internal and Telecommunications, the Republic Post Office and the Public Enterprise of PTT Serbia. The World Post Federation is a specialised UN agency based in Bern, Switzerland, founded in 1874 with a mission to establish and improve co-operation on a multinational basis, ensuring the successful functioning of postal traffic, and the Principality of Serbia was one of the 22 states of founding alliances. Congress as the top body of the World Postal Union, composed of authorised representatives of the governments of the Member States ambushed every fourth year. The Congress performs a legislative and regulatory function and represents a forum for determining the general policy and strategy of the World Postal Union for a period between the two Congresses. Participation in Congress represents the international commitment of the Republic of Serbia as members of the World Postal Union that stems from the Constitution and other binding acts of the World Postal Union to which our country has joined. The ratification of acts of the World Postal Union brought to congress held in Bucharest in 2004 and four years later in Geneva was carried out by the adoption of a law on the confirmation of them. The state delegation is on 25. The World Postal Union Congress represented the interests adopted by the Government by Conclusion 05 No 037-5371 of 2012 from 30 August 2012, which was adopted by the Platform for the Participation of the Delegations of the Republic of Serbia on 25 August 2012. The Congress of the World Postal Union. Authorised representatives of the Government, Member States of the World Postal Union at 25. The World Postal Federation Congress was adopted by the following acts: General Regulations of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol of the World Postage Convention and arrangement of postal and financial services. The General Regulation of the World Postal Federation contains provisions governing the operational work of the World Postal Union and its bodies. The World Postal Convention and the Final Protocol of the World Postal Convention contain common rules applicable to international postal traffic, as well as provisions relating to written consignments and packages. The agreement on postal and financial services regulates the provision of postal and financial services between Member States of the World Postal Union which are signatories of this arrangement and is binding on these countries. The main goal to achieve by adopting legislation on the confirmation of acts of the World Postal Federation is to meet the international commitments arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia on the World Postal Union. The adoption of the law will more precisely define the conditions under which a public postal operator will provide international postal services and provide for the exchange of postal e-mails by respecting the principle of free transit and equal processing of postal e-mails coming from other countries, as well as providing the right to universal postal service to all natural and legal persons in the Republic of Serbia under equal conditions for all and affordable prices. Point 16. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport, passengers and things was signed in Ancona on 15 October 2013. The agreement was signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivan Mrkic, then foreign minister, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Italy, Mrs. Emma Bonino, foreign minister. In accordance with the European legislation in the field of road transport and the regulation of the international transport forum, the agreement regulates road transport of passengers and things within four chapters, transport of passengers, liner and extra-linean, occasional and other types of passenger transport, transport of things on the basis of permits and without permits, provisions of general character, obligations to comply with the rules in road transport, foreign exchange regulations, rules relating to fees and customs regulations, provisions on temporary import and release from customs duties, measures in the event of breach of the provisions of the agreement, competent authorities for the enforcement of agreements, education and tasks of the mixed commission, application of national legislation to issues which are not regulated by this Agreement and final provisions of entry into force and validity of the agreements and its cancellation. The conclusion of this agreement created a legal framework for improving bilateral, trade and economic relations. Especially given the fact that in 2013, the Republic of Italy was the first external trade partner in the Republic of Serbia. Currently, in the area of road transport of passengers, all types of bus transport of passengers with Italy take place in the permit regime and in the vanlinic transport of passengers, Serbian carriers have a problem with insufficient number of Italian permits especially during the period of vacations. In addition, the exchange of permits with the competent authorities of the Republic of Italy has been difficult because of the Italian party's demands to always apply used permits previously. For the aforementioned reasons, it is very important that an agreement with Italy enters into force as soon as possible, since the provisions of this Agreement have agreed on a very liberal regime for the movement of extra-line passenger transport, which would largely free the occasional transport of passengers from the authorisation regime. In the area of road transport, things with the Republic of Italy particularly highlight a new qualitative solution to the agreement, in line with European legislation, that the mixed commission has the possibility to decide on the types of transport of things that can be excluded from the authorisation regime. The new solution is that the mixed commission has the possibility to arrange for the exchange of individual transport permits for and from third countries, which has not been envisaged so far and has not been exchanged. This type of transport is carried out exclusively by multilateral CEMT permits whose number is not sufficient for Serbian carriers. Point 17. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic was signed at an international transport forum in Leipzig on 23 May 2013. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the agreement was signed by Ivo Viskovic, then an extraordinary and authorised ambassador of the Republic of Serbia to the Federal Republic of Germany, and on the German side, Federal Transport Minister Petar Ramzare and the ambassador to the MP of the Federal Republic of Germany Jerk Ranau. In accordance with European legislation in the field of road transport and regulatory international transport forum, the agreement also regulates road transport of passengers and things within five chapters: Introduction provision, Transport of passengers, Transport of things, Special provisions and Final provisions. In relation to the current contractual situation, some of these solutions to which this Agreement applies are more detailedly arranged, both in line and intermittent and occasional transport of passengers. The entry into force of an agreement on a certain type of occasional transport, which is now carried out in the authorisation regime, will make it more liberal in accordance with European legislation. Such solutions are fully in line with our interests, contain a regime of conduct, occasional transportation of passengers defined and in an inter-bus agreement we expect to facilitate the separation of this type of passenger transport. The authorisation is required for each freighter and each tow vehicle, and it shall also apply to a trailer or semi-trailer independent of the state, registration of the trailer or semi-trailer. The new solutions are also customs provisions on exemptions from the payment of import duties and the possession of licences for imports of fuel, oil and spare parts. Provisions concerning the transport of vehicles whose dimensions or axle load exceeds the prescribed values, the provisions on the incentive of the use of vehicles which meet modern standards of safety and environmental protection, the protection of personal data. The conclusion of this agreement created a legal framework for improving bilateral trade and economic relations, given that SR Germany is one of our most significant business partners, and that this is the first bilateral agreement concluded with SR Germany after many years. I note that the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia in Berlin, with an open telegram dated 9 September 2013, informed us that the German side had completed the prescribed procedure for confirming and introducing the legal system of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic. Point 18. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, which entered into force on 1 September 2013, Serbia is obliged to sign bilateral agreements with countries that have already signed the SAA within two years. Accordingly, the agreement with Montenegro is a step further in meeting our obligations under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the areas covered by this Agreement, this Agreement fully corresponds to our commitments arising from the CAP. That agreement is in the spirit of the Republic of Serbia's commitment to achieve enhanced co-operation with EU member states and countries in the EU accession process, which will contribute to the exchange of experiences in European integration, with the aim of speeding up Serbia's EU integration. Since Montenegro has already opened a number of negotiating chapters, and Serbia expects to open new chapters soon, co-operation in the context of Eurointegration and exchanges of experiences can be of importance to both sides and above all to us. The agreement envisions strengthening dialogue and co-operation between the state authorities responsible for European integration affairs, i.e. between the two foreign affairs ministries, seminar organisations, expert meetings, professional training, exchange of experiences in the negotiations under chapters. The agreement further encourages implementation co-operation in the region, which is of great importance in the European integration process. Preparation of joint projects of regional importance, improvement of regional political dialogues. Point 19. On the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 05 No. 337-1241/2013-2, of 22 February 2013, Professor Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, signed on 24 April 2013, on behalf of the Government as representative of the Republic of Serbia, a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organisation, UNESCO, on behalf of the establishment of the Centre for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment as the centre of category two under the auspices of UNESCO. At the 190th session of the Executive Council, the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the conclusion by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of UNESCO adopted Decision No 190. The EAFRD/SR.7 empowering UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokov to sign a contract with the Serbian government on the establishment of the Centre for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment at the Institute for Water Management "Jaroslav Černi" as the centre of category two under UNESCO's auspices. UNESCO's second-class centres are unprecedented in the UN system. They are founded by Member States to contribute to the achievement of UNESCO's objectives, plans and programmes at international level. At this point, there are 40 other category centers in the world. The Centre for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment at the Institute for Water Management "Jaroslav Černi", as well as the centre of category two, is the best way to promote science through the UNESCO network and share professional, scientific and international experience in the context of Serbia's presentation in the world. The continued patronage of UNESCO in all activities of the centre enables a Member State to better establish contacts on the international and regional agenda, train professional staff, conduct research, negotiate exchange of students and knowledge within its work and promote expertise. UNESCO's sign and patronage are a guarantee of investment in Serbia and obtaining professional and scientific assistance in promoting the organisation's programmes and objectives at local and regional level. For the water economy of the Republic of Serbia, the establishment of this centre is of great importance, taking into account the activities and objectives set out in Article 6 of the Treaty, and in particular those relating to impact assessment, global change, the development of the adaptation strategy, as well as the take-up of effective training activities at institutional, professional level, in order to strengthen the capacity to assess the impact of global change, on water resources management, as well as the organisation of the information programme for different groups, such as decision-makers and the general public at national and regional levels of climate change adaptation strategies and the impact on sustainable management of water resources. Point 20. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council on the practice of paid activities of escorts, members of diplomatic missions, consular representations and special missions at international and international organisations was signed in Belgrade on 24 April 2014 in the original language in Serbian, French and English. The purpose of the conclusion of the contract. On a reciprocal basis, the agreement between the two countries regulates employment with the compensation of family members, diplomatic and other staff, in accordance with the internal rules of the country in which employment is sought. For the last decade, the conclusion of this type of bilateral contract has become a common international legal practice. In fact, many countries have noticed that the modern way of life has led to an ever-increasing phenomenon that spouses of members of staff of the CAP refuse to leave their jobs to follow their spouse abroad, leading the foreign ministry of those countries to address the problem of their employees and to initiate the conclusion of such contracts. The main objective of the contract is to preserve the normal family life of diplomatic consular representatives and the integrity of their families by meeting the professional and economic needs of those families. The effects of diplomatic consular representatives acting under the conditions of a divided family are undoubtedly less than those that function in the environment of the arranged family opportunities, when the family is gathered in the place of service. The second purpose of this agreement is to limit the privileges and immunities of the person mentioned in the scope of the activity paid, which would otherwise belong to the provisions of the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations since 18 April 1961 and the provisions of the Vienna Convention to consular relations since 24 April 1963. Namely, these persons will not enjoy immunity on civil and administrative proceedings concerning all issues arising from such a well-founded working relationship as they enjoyed caring for these conventions. This agreement regulates the employment of persons living in joint households with members of the diplomatic consular offices of the two countries, in accordance with the country's admission regulations. The agreement lists persons living in a joint household who can exercise these rights. In order to achieve this right, it is necessary, at the request of the diplomatic consular representative of the country, to appoint the State Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to determine whether the person on whose behalf a member of the family is requested is authorised in accordance with the definition set out in this Agreement. After that, upon completion of the applicable procedure, in accordance with the country's legislation, the DKP officially informs the DKP of a decision made upon request to grant authorisation for the practice of paid employment. The issue of immunity of persons based on this agreement has also been resolved. Namely, persons living in a joint household who establish a working relationship in accordance with this Agreement and who enjoy the immunity of the jurisdiction of the receiving State, under the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations or the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, will not enjoy immunity from the civil and administrative judiciary in relation to all issues arising from such a well-founded working relationship. In this way an exemption shall be created in relation to the provisions of those conventions. With regard to immunity from criminal justice, it is provided that the State of designations will waive immunity from the criminal tribunal on behalf of the member of the companion family in the event of the presence of the person concerned having committed a criminal offence during the course of the activity paid, except where it considers that such denial may be contrary to its interests. If there is no denial of criminal immunity when the state deems itself to be doing serious things, it may ask the country from which the companion member of the family is encouraged to give up that immunity. A person based on this agreement would fall under the country's social security regime of admission regarding all issues concerning his employment in the country. He would also be obliged to pay all income taxes in the state on the basis of a job carried out under this agreement. So far, the contracts have been closed. The Republic of Serbia has so far signed this agreement with eight other countries, with Canada in 2004, America in 2006, the Netherlands in 2010, Spain in 2010, Belgium in 2010, Argentina in 2012, Slovenia in 2012, Israel in 2013, Israel again in 2013 and Macedonia in 2013. With Albania, Portugal, Germany, Romania, Brazil, Finland, Italy and Australia, negotiations are under way to conclude the agreement. Point 21. The European Centre for Medium-term Weather Forecasts and the European Intergovernmental Professional Organisation established on the basis of the Convention signed on 10 October 1973. It consists of 20 countries in Europe, full members, 14 associated member states and seven international organisations. In addition to EU member states, the SFRY participated in the establishment of the Centre. The Law on ratification of the Convention establishing the Convention was adopted in December 1974. However, at the time of sanctions, our country's membership has been suspended, and a procedure has been launched since 2002 to re-accession our country to this international organisation. The agreement on co-operation between the SRJ government and the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts of the SR Yugoslavia was signed in Belgrade on 13 December 2002. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ratified the agreement on 5 May 2010. The main task of the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts is to provide operational functions of Member States' national hydrometeorological services with operational, computer and communication connections and access to all chemical and global meteorological data and analytical prognostic products necessary to produce weather and climate forecasts and to warn about atmospheric disasters and disasters. The numerical weather forecasts of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecast of Time are the basis for the development of the system of operational weather production, hydrometeorological services, for the needs of a number of users in the agriculture, electricity, transport, water, military and public sectors. Thanks to the operational use of product numerical weather forecasts and satellite meteorological data RHMZ has developed an electronic early announcement system and warnings of dangerous meteorological phenomena, so-called. a meteor alarm for the unique territory of the Republic of Serbia and ensuring full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU meteorisation system. Given the importance of the European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Forecast, the RHMZ in January 2013 initiated full membership accession, which gives Serbia the right to decide on strategic important issues of development of the centre, which directly coincides with strategic plans for the development of meteorological profession in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the mentioned, full membership, we gain the right to access and use the centre's computer resources, which will significantly improve the development of different weather forecasts and warnings for the Republic of Serbia and allow for a more significant and extensive quality of research in meteorology. It is this year that confirmed the efficient functioning of the hydrometeorological system, early announcements and warnings, which has issued a timely warning of the occurrence of extreme rainfalls with the consequences of the floods of catastrophic proportions that affected our country's territory and surrounding countries in May this year. In view of the forwards, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Confirmation of the original 1975 Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, the original Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, the Protocol amending the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, be adopted by an urgent procedure. Point 22 of the Agreement on the Cooperation of Veterinary Medicine with other countries allows and regulates the official co-operation of the national veterinary authority in the Republic of Serbia and the competent national veterinary authorities of other countries. Official cooperation with other competent authorities shall enable cooperation, exchange of information, harmonisation of standards in production and control, as well as the establishment of procedures for veterinary documentation necessary to access the product of animal origin on the market of signatories. The agreement with Azerbaijan is very important, especially given the high potential of the Serbian commodity market. It is important to bear in mind the fact that, before paraphrasing the agreement, it is bilaterally agreed on at technical level, so changes should not change such harmonised technical details in the agreement. Point 23. The adoption of this law is necessary in order to support the strengthening of the capacity of the Deposit Insurance Agency in order to enable it to fulfil its obligations to secure deposits and resolve problematic banks, in order to serve as a central part of the financial sector's security network. Article 3 The 2014 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No.110/13, stipulates that the Republic of Serbia can be in charge of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of $200m in support of the Deposit Insurance Agency. According to the Law on the Insurance of Depositary of the Republic of Serbia's Official Messenger, No.61/05, 116/08 and 91/010, the Agency provides deposits up to 50 000 euros per deposit and a special fund – the Deposit Insurance Fund, was established to protect deposits and funds. The deposit insurance system is efficient if the Deposit Insurance Fund is able to protect the financial resources available from the deposit in that range and easily resolve the problem in banks that are cost-effective. Accordingly, the level of trust in the banking system maintains an effective deposit insurance system. Since the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund after solving the problems they faced in their business of Nova Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank have been spent, the deposit insurance system requires support. The terms of this loan for a project to support the Deposit Insurance Agency are next. The Republic of Serbia is taking a loan under the terms of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 145,300,000 euros. The original amount of the $200m loan was converted into euro, and the amount of euro loans was determined on the basis of the US dollar-euro exchange rate on 31 December 2013, the last day of the month preceding the month in which the negotiations were held. The proposed terms of the loan are: a period of 18 years, a grace period of five years, the interest rate is a six-month eurobor, plus a variable interest margin, which currently stands at 0.27%. The access fee paid to the bank is 0.25% of the amount of the loan. The Republic of Serbia will repay the loan in 26 consecutive half-year wars every 15 April and 15 October each year, starting on 15 April 2019. Point 25. This decision should be taken by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 167. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No.20/12, as these amendments bring into line with the National Employment Service's 2014 Financial Plan with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No.110/13. In this part, as well as the programme of distribution and use of grants to compulsory social insurance organisations from the Republic of Serbia's budget, adopted by the government's conclusion 05, 401-1698/14 of 22 February 2014. The National Service's 2014 financial plan, at which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agreed on 13 December 2013 to pay special compensation to employees missing up to five years until the first conditions for exercising pension rights are met, provides for funding of 1,667,900 dinars. However, since the ex post analyses have shown that an increasing number of employees are applying for this kind of special cash compensation, the amendment to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 increases the amount of funds for these purposes, so that the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 and in the programme of schedules and use of grants and compulsory social security organisations from the Republic of Serbia's budget of 22 February 2014 established funds of 2,423,250 dinars. In view of the need for a monthly payment of around 200,000 dinars and in order to avoid late payments and any other problems that could arise as a result of default payments, amendments to the National Employment Service's 2014 financial plan have been proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8694	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8695	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a set of laws on various agreements that SVM MPs will support in the voting day. I would now like to talk about one of the most important matters for the Hungarian National Community, which is the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary on Social Security. To remind ourselves, the Social Security Agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Serbia has existed so far. Since 1958, the Convention between the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary has been in force to regulate the issue of social security for their citizens. I would like to point out that after several rounds of negotiations on 29 November 2013, an agreement was signed between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary on social security and the bill had already been signed before the election of the new government, and to note, the agreement was already ratified by Hungary at the session of the Hungarian parliament, held on 16 and 17 December 2013. As the agreement enters into force on the first day of the third month after the end, in which the last confirmation notice, in this case ours, would be desirable to confirm on our part as soon as possible, so that both Serbian and Hungarian citizens can exercise their rights. This is a comprehensive agreement governing areas of pension and disability insurance, health insurance and health care, labour injuries and occupational diseases, motherhood and unemployment insurance. We welcome the fact that, when drawing up the agreement, the standards provided for by the EU regulation governing the social security of migrant workers, as well as a very sensitive issue, are both parties, and the data provider and the one receiving them, are obliged to provide personal data on protection against unauthorized access, change and publication. One of the SVM's programming aspirations is to create such conditions in Serbia so that migrants, who are Vojvodina Hungarians in immigration, are returned to Serbia and this agreement is one of the major parts of these packages. According to the 2012 census, there were 40,000 fewer Hungarians in Serbia than in 2002. There are, of course, more causes, such as low birth, which is very characteristic, unfortunately, for the entire Republic of Serbia, but also for the extensive emigration of the duchy Hungarians, above all in Hungary, due to continued education and employment. This is important for the Hungarian national minority on the territory of Vojvodina, where 13% of the population accounted for the Hungarian national community according to the last census. The agreement gives the citizens of Serbia, who have worked in Hungary and Serbia for some time, three ways to exercise their pension right, i.e. direct payment of the fee. Namely, art. 22 and 23, it is regulated that the right to give can be acquired in these three ways. The first is self-sustaining, which means that a person who has been employed in one of the two countries, long enough in that country, has acquired the right to retire and another country recognises that right. The other variants are proportionate giving, which means that if a person has not been secured long enough in one of the countries, it can be added, collects a working internship in another country, but there is no match. The third way of obtaining the right to give is if, in addition to the above, the conditions for obtaining the right to give are not met, then the periods of insurance completed in third countries with which the parties have concluded social insurance agreements. I would also like to point out Article 37 concerning the release or reduction of fees for written submissions or documents which apply to the application of legal provisions, as well as Article 38 relating to the use of language. The draft law states that competent authorities participating in the implementation of this Agreement in mutual communication, as well as in communication with interested parties and their representatives, may use the official language of their country and cannot refuse submissions or documents because they are drawn up in the official language of the other Contracting Parties. This is significant because citizens are not burdened in this way by the additional costs necessary for the certified translation of documents. From the legal point of view, i.e. from the point of view of the court, it is significant that, in accordance with this Agreement, the executive decision of the courts, as well as the executive decisions and documents of the competent authorities or bodies on contributions and other social security claims, shall be recognised in another State, by other parties. Any disputes concerning the interpretation and application of this Agreement shall be settled by agreement. The competent authorities of a foreign Contracting Party, and if the current problem cannot be solved by a peaceful path, is resolved diplomatically. I want to highlight and commend the co-operation of two social security funds in the last two years. Namely, both sides and the Social Insurance Fund in Hungary and the Social Insurance Fund in Serbia envisioned advisory days, twice a year, in May and November, for persons who worked and worked both in Hungary and Serbia or in one of the two states. Experts from both funds are present on these advisory days. So people who are interested can get first-hand information about insurance from both states. To sum up, the SVM parliamentary group believes this agreement is extremely important and we will support it in the voting day, as well as other agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8696	The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8697	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint single review of a number of draft laws on the validation of agreements and decisions. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these drafts of the law, primarily by opening every agreement throughout the door for co-operation in other areas, I say, of vital importance to the Republic of Serbia. Undoubtedly, at the very beginning, every agreement has a weight and importance, but my presentation will focus on the proposal for a decision on the use and participation of Serbian military members in UN-EU peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic and the bill to confirm a security agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I said, I will first talk about the proposal and the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in UN and EU peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic. The proposal for a decision is addressed to the adoption by an emergency procedure due to EU and UN requirements for the urgent deployment of medical personnel on the ground, which is certainly essential for creating conditions for achieving and maintaining the full operational capacity of multinational operations and the end of the conflict in the Central African Republic. Before I start talking about the bill itself, what do these peace operations of the Republic of Serbia mean to us? First, the engagement of members of the Serbian Army and other forces in multinational operations under the auspices of the EU and the UN, the Republic of Serbia clearly shows that it is an active factor in preserving peace and security in the world. On the other hand, engagement in peace operations provides firm proof of continuity in the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates a peaceful settlement through all disputes, respect for international law and other generally accepted standards in international relations, as well as strengthening the role and capacity of the international community. This is certainly an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which contributes to treating the Republic of Serbia as an equal partner in relation to EU and UN Member States. In view of the growing number of crisis hotspots and armed conflict in the world, multinational operations are becoming increasingly important. Currently in multinational operations, under the auspices of the UN and the EU, 214 members of the Serbian Army are engaged. The Serbian Army is also taking steps to increase in multinational operations. The fact that only last year in these operations is the number of members of the Serbian Army that is almost equal to the total number of members of the Serbian Army engaged in the previous 11 years. Another important thing to point out is the importance of the fact, giving a special seal to the Serbian Army's peacekeeping operations, which I always like to point out, that women make up as much as 7% of the auxiliary staff in the peace missions in which the Republic of Serbia participates. I think it's a very important fact for us. Coming back to the motion for a decision, it should be said that it is two peacekeeping missions. One is under the auspices of the UN and the other is under the auspices of the EU. Serbia could participate with up to 75 staff officers and members of the medical staff. The mandate of the operation will take six months to reach full operational capacity. It is not certain that it will be extended in any further period. Serbia's military has not participated in a UN-sponsored peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic so far. It should be said that the political security situation in this country is extremely, extremely complex. Characteristics are a conflict on an ethical and religious basis, then a large number of displaced persons, a failed establishment of government in the territory of the entire state, and threats divided by the state. Indeed, everything seems to be in order to prevent conflict and to establish stability in this country. Members of our army have adequately trained personnel to participate in multinational operations and plan to engage, as I have said before, with 75 staff officers and medical staff. What is most important, in the voting day, as far as this decision is concerned, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill. Secondly, what I would like to discuss today is the draft law establishing a security agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH. The JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this security agreement, as practically this agreement regulates co-operation between interior ministers and security services, and also creates conditions for co-operation in the area of the country's dedicated industry. Practically, this security agreement shows the Republic of Serbia's readiness to improve bilateral co-operation with BiH in the security sector, the conclusion of the agreement, which will provide both the exchange and protection of classified information. Also, conditions are being created for action against challenges and threats related not only to Serbia, but also to global challenges, risks and threats, then co-operation in joint training, engagement in multinational operations, crisis management and border management. This security agreement certainly achieves an effect of greater security for our citizens and at the same time creates a clear message to all who are on the other side of the law that any border will not help them carry out criminal activity. At the very end, the JS parliamentary group will support both these two bill proposals that I have spoken of and all other bill proposals from this joint single search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8698	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8699	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen from at least eight ministries and a number of state institutions, I would first like to say a few words about the way we are having this debate today. On the proposal of our colleagues, Babic, we have brought together 18 points of the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure. Then we couldn't react and we're doing it today, 18 points of the agenda is right in front of us. They have almost nothing to do with each other. This is material for those 18 points, according to these laws, which are almost all submitted for debate under emergency procedure. Eight ministers were authorised to participate in the debate. Mr. Selaković – four laws, Mr. Dačić – three, Mr. Ljajic – two, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlović – two, Mr. Vulin – one, Dusan Vujović – one, Minister Bogosavljevic – two laws and the only present Mr. Gasic was authorised for two laws today. Just before the start, the Prime Minister authorised him to represent the government in the debate on all these 18 draft laws and he did so. Forty-seven-and-a-half minutes he talked about all the laws, although nothing is one progress when we have these united discussions, very often it happens that a representative of the promoters does not mention all the laws. At the beginning of this session, Minister Verbic, for example, did not speak at all about the programme – Horizon 2020 which was voted on that same day. The question, in which way and can we conduct a quality debate if only Minister Gasic is here? I say, two laws originally he was authorized before the Assembly to represent, these other laws by some other ministers. I'll try in these 20 minutes, as far as I can, to say a few words about a few laws. My first suspicion, when we saw this kind of unification, was that this thing wanted to hide, when you connected incompatibly, it was probably a desire not to talk about something. I don't know if that's, say, the decision to amend and supplement the National Employment Service's 2014 Financial Plan, which has nothing to do with international security agreements, or the decision to refer a member of the Serbian Army to a peacekeeping mission or with a draft law confirming the Agreement of the Government of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council. I've read all these draft laws and agreements and I have a few things I want to say during today's debate. I found it interesting and the minister read it about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic. The minister read that, and this is in the context of an emergency procedure, that on 9 September 2013, tomorrow year, our embassy informed the government that the German party had completed the prescribed adjustment and introduction procedure in the legal system of this agreement on 29 August 2013. So, this agreement was signed on 23 May 2013, Germany ended it on 29 August, in three months, and it takes us a year and three months to introduce the same agreement into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Then we wonder when Chancellor Germany says things change at the speed of snails here in the Balkans. Here's proof of the speed of the snail. It takes us a year more to introduce an international agreement into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Who's to blame? The opposition, the citizens of Serbia or the government that ruled both in 2013 and this year? Don't be angry when you hear the grades, but try to speed up your work on meeting international obligations. On that side in opposition, in your own, and on behalf of our parliamentary group, you will have your hand and cooperation. As far as the bill on the approval of the agreement is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council, there is one beautiful thing that will cheer up LGBT rights fighters in the Republic of Serbia, as this law introduces into our legal system the idea of a spouse as a member of a family and a permanent partner with whom there is a link similar marriage to the official record of one of the parties contracted. Since we do not have such a thing in our legislation, and Switzerland does, we will now do so in a certain way both in the mother and in the Republic of Serbia, it may be a guideline to how things will happen in the Republic of Serbia. It is also interesting to propose a decision on granting consent to amend and supplement the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2014. It's interesting that for the proposal of this decision, no one is authorized in front of the government, no one has been to this day. There is now Mr Gasic, so he can explain to us why the NSZ when it proposed its financial plan to the 2014 Assembly, which was adopted in December of last year, why it predicted only a billion and 667 million dinars? When you were talking, you lost some thousands. Then, with the programme of schedules and the use of grant funds and compulsory insurance organisations from the Serbian budget on 22 February 2014, so only two months after that, it was found that these funds, and these are the funds of a special grant to the unemployed who are missing five years until the first conditions for the exercise of pension rights, were planned for 2014, 2,423,250,000 dinars. The whole point of this decision is now to correct this financial plan and to add 755 million is projected to be transferred from the department of the Ministry of Labour, to the National Employment Service, which, I don't know when, realized that this year will take 200 million dinars a month to pay these fees, and not about 150, how much she thought it would take at the end of last year, and that there would be no delays in payments, because practically the overall budget for this year is already scheduled, must be implemented this change and the addition of the financial plan. Of course, this would be a topic of discussion on one agenda point. Let's talk about what money is spent on at the National Employment Service. Let's ask the question -- why are the expenditures, what are the $287 million spent on running repairs and maintenance or, on the material of 148 million or on other things? But unfortunately, this is one of the 18 points, and we don't have time to discuss all these issues about this agenda point. We also have among these agreements, which begin with agreements on the exchange of classified information and various others, and one 200m-dollar loan, or 145.3m-euro, respectively. I think that every time we talk about borrowing citizens of RS who will have to pay this amount, we need to hold a debate with the minister's presence and hear how that money will be spent, whether the state of Serbia will be able to repay this debt from 15 April 2019, as provided for by this law, and how the RS's mandate will be increased, which is already on record. Perhaps the only point that the minister present today can provide concrete answers, because I do not believe that he can give us concrete information on how the confirmation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the area of agriculture, what positive effects it will have on external trade and on some possible additional revenues in RS, is a point that is very important and I think it deserves of course an individual debate, which is a proposal for a decision on the use and participation of a member of Serbia's military in a UN peacekeeping mission in the Central-African Republic and the EU in the Central-African Republic. We have heard today that the Committee has also accepted the amendment of Mr Babic, where eight days from the day of publication is shortened, that the law begins to enter into force on the day of publication, because it is planned that the first soldiers under this peace mission are instructed in the Central African Republic as early as September of this month, so literally these days. We have always supported the participation of members of the Serbian Army and the MUP in international missions and that it is important for the image of the RS, that it enables us to be a credible partner, and it opens up many other doors that need to lead to greater economic development and better life for Serbian citizens, but I think we should always keep in mind that the people we send there, we don't send them on any trip, we send them to dangerous thorny areas and that their lives will be at risk. The very reason for this decision says that the situation is extremely complex, characterized by conflict on an ethnic and religious basis, a large number of displaced persons, a failure to establish authorities in the entire territory of the state and a threat to the division of the state. First, I'd like to ask the Minister for a little doubt. The bill says that RS will refer up to 75 of its members to these two missions, and the minister said, explaining -- 68 medical personnel in the UN mission, six in the EU Mission, two staff officers and two military observers. That's in the sum of 78. It's not much of a difference, but it's three people, and here we see if it's 78 or 75, and what kind of dynamics they're going to be referred to in the Central African Republic, and also, I've asked the Minister a question at the Defence and Home Affairs Committee on who's going to be in charge of security, since members of the RS Army are going to go there, they're going to go from medical staff, they're probably not going to be armed and someone else is going to take care of their safety. Which country is this, is this the German contingent within which our forces will be? I'd like to hear from the minister, perhaps by next year, if he's in a position to visit them, and report on the state of the field. We know that the minister was a few days ago and he visited our soldiers in Lebanon and I think it's good, and if this mission is accomplished in this full range of over 70 people, I think it's going to be the third mission of the RS Army and I think it's extremely important that we show our concern for those people we send to a far away, and certainly dangerous country. In the end, I'm just hoping that this merger practice won't repeat itself. I can understand the desire for this session to be completed as soon as possible, because there is one delegation or more delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to attend important visits to distant countries, but I don't think that's the reason to establish one bad practice. Don't let it happen next time, if it's there, say it -- well, it happened once, so now it can happen every time. These things should not happen in the practice of the Serbian Parliament. We cannot discuss 18 international agreements in quality, which are not first 18 international agreements. Among these points are things that are not international agreements, extremely important points. There's something I've been talking about. So, eight ministers were scheduled to explain these bill proposals, there is only Mr. Gasic and I ask that this be the first and last time in parliament to discuss such important things in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8700	Thank you. This was not the first time in parliamentary practice to merge, as you said, incompatible, but it was a practice, and we can change it in the future to group in another way. You've been an MP for a long time, and I am, so we know it's been a regular practice for years, no matter who the chairman is or who the majority is, and who the minority is. This is because the public doesn't get the wrong impression it's something new for the first time. The word has a minister named Gasic. Here you go. The minister asked for an answer. Do you agree? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8701	Mr. Djurishic, thank you for these questions. I'm very proud today that I could have replaced my colleagues with their assistants, the secretary of state, who are here with me to help me answer all these questions of yours. This shows only one major government unity, that the Serbian government is operating as a major team. My colleagues had more important, important things to do today. Of course, a number of them also left with Prime Minister Vukic on an important, very important trip to a country that is one of the world's leading forces. I proudly defended their laws here today, and I will try to answer all your questions, and I hope that the whole team that is here today will be able to solve all the problems and all that is not clear to you. First of all, you're saying I've read in millions. Yeah, it's true, but you need to know that accounting records in balance sheets are run in thousands of dinars. So those three zeroes always come off, which is why it's read like that. There was nothing wrong with that. As for the loan, I will later, I believe that the other heads of Parliament will ask these questions, and I will be happy to answer about this $200 million we have. Don't forget that we had one Vojvodina Development Bank and all that was happening in it, that we had a new Agrobank, where with the help of some previous governments many tycoons became very rich and left behind thousands of citizens of Serbia, thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises of the Republic of Serbia. This is only help to pay off what was signed by some governments in previous years, when the Deposit Insurance Agency was created, so that these people could be compensated. It is clearly foreseen, we have here, if you will, I can read after all of you, and from the NBS what exactly these funds are intended for and how they will be spent. As for the contract with SR Germany, the bill and why it's only coming now. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road transport was sent to the assembly procedure in October 2013, meaning immediately after the confirmation by the Government of SR Germany, right after the gathering of opinions of relevant and all other institutions. After the disband of the previous assembly, all the draft laws were withdrawn from the procedure and it was necessary to repeat the procedure after the formation of this new government. So much, and I'll do it again later, about the peace operations and everything else we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8702	The word comes from MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8703	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, they had German elections, Minister Gasic, too, so they managed to adopt it somehow, unlike us. We had important government obligations even when he was Minister Vujovic, so the prime minister was in Milanovac, in the campaign, so that the argument doesn't exactly seem to fit in this situation. When we get 18 points, I agree with my colleague Đurisic, there has been that before, but it has not been until now that we have a minister with as many as 16 co-workers from various ministries and institutions, where, for the sake of citizens, none of these 16 people here can talk, because of the Rules of Procedure, but only a minister can. Now I ask you, Minister, there are so many things here in these 18 agreements and not just an agreement, how do you think any of the MPs here can do quality about anything that you've unitedly sent us? There are things that have nothing to do with each other, whether it's practice or not, I find that very bad. Now I'm going to ask you about the National Employment Service, you're the Secretary of Defense, one of these people probably needs to run out of that line to tell you something to answer those questions. There's no answer here in the material to the questions we're interested in. I understand your good will, but you cannot tell us – I will deliver it clearly to you, so you will see exactly what this is about when it is not written here. This is the official paper the National Assembly receives, among hundreds of other papers that have been sent to us as a united debate of as many as 18 points. So, I pray that, like Mr. Djurisic, this is avoided because we cannot discuss this quality. We can't, simply, nobody can, I'm sure, even you who heroically for 50 minutes read the explanations from every paper, 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8704	Ambassador, is this your discussion of matter?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8705	No one can, I'm sure, no one can convince me to ask you about point 17. What did you say, you can't remember. There's no way. This leads to invaluable processing of acts coming before the National Assembly. Maybe it's not your personal fault, you know this part about the use of the military and the agreement regarding the exchange of military intelligence, so we can ask you that, but there's the least we can do. I must say that here I have indeed noticed one proposal among these 18 points, which is already the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service of the Republic of Serbia's financial plan, along with cooperation in the area of agriculture with Azerbaijan and sending our army to the Central African Republic. Our armies of 70 and some members are going to the Central African Republic, we have always supported and we will support the participation of the Serbian Army in peace missions, you know that. Now I'm asking you, we have this proposal for a decision to give consent, it takes people to join the internship, i.e. Five years to merge. Someone misplanned and lacked money, someone, and then you deliver this in 18 papers, like a secret love letter from Edgar Alan Poe. Now, I'm here, MP, I'm taking the papacy, and what can I see here? I can see that this is the new 750 million, I can see that this is a bad plan, I can see that it's spent before time, I can see some very interesting things. The use of services and goods totals a billion 760 million dinars. What is it, what services and what goods? The cost of travelling to the National Employment Service 109 million dinars, a service contracted by 300 million dinars. Are those the fast trains that go to them? I don't know what this is about. I really don't understand. Permanent costs of 914 million dinars, travel costs, I've already said, specialized services of three million dinars, liquid repairs and maintenance of 287 million dinars. What does liquid repairs and maintenance mean? Is it true what is said, which tells us "laufer", that there is one firm there that gets all the jobs, that does everything and places furniture and air conditioning, one and the same, very close to some people, is it true or not true? Now how are you going to answer that? I'm not asking you about MIG or the battery or the military, I'm asking you about the National Employment Service, and you're going to tell me – I'm sure that's not true. All right, I already know what you're gonna say, you're sure that's not true. Time will tell. The temporary remuneration of employees from the AP KiM territory, with the temporary fee of three billion and some dinars. For what, what, who, where, how? We are not against it, Mr Bogdanovic, but we are against you telling the people – the Brussels Agreement is signed, there is going to be Kosovo institutions, there will be a Kosovo court, there will be Kosovo authorities, they will be crossings, and we have three billion dinars. For what? It would be my turn to write this more precisely. Programmes and measures of active employment policy cost Serbian citizens 600m dinars. How much did the National Employment Service employ Serbian citizens, how many in number, through which programme specifically? Do you qualify, do any changes in your work skills, some certain professional stuff? I don't understand what 600 million are to be given for now, when everyone knows in Serbia, and you ministers, that people are, unfortunately, to be hired through your party. They could've given you money. You've got a better employment program. It's not small money. I must say, most of all, as you can see, I am interested in showing the costs and things that are listed here in this act called granting consent to the decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. So that's what interests me most, and I hope you can tell me, but please don't tell me – travel costs refer to things that are usually used and I'm sure there's no abuse. I'm just asking you not to tell me that, because I'm sure you don't believe that either. As for these other agreements that are coming here before us, some will be spoken of by my colleague Ciric, who he has worked actively on, things concerning the provision of social rights to our employees in diplomatic and consular representations, co-operation in the field of agriculture with Azerbaijan, exchange of intelligence, etc., all of these are very positive things, these are agreements which, retailes, have a typical character and I am glad that people in the government managed to collect the necessary consent in time, as you said, before sending them to the National Assembly. We had elections, but they had Germans. It took them three months, and for us a year and three months. I don't understand that. It wasn't enough for me to say precisely, your explanation. I believe you understand when 16 people come from the government, along with you, to talk about agreements. All these people are experts in their field and that will never be questioned in this congregation. But you're the only one who can talk and only you can answer that. Mr. Gasic, you're the minister who runs a very important segment in this country, and I know that it's not easy for you, besides everything you have to do, I've heard and I don't know if it's true that you know how to go to Majdanpek by helicopter. And despite all that, you're now dealing with these papers that your associates are adding to you. I thank you and hope our questions have been precise and please, if you can answer them as accurately as you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8706	Thank you. I owe you one notice. I have invited all the State Secretarys to attend, and I have read this to the public and to you as a member of Parliament. I think you know that more than you want to speak to the Minister. They also have the right to have Bratislav Gasic, Zoran Babic. Here you go, in front of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8707	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic, even though it seemed like you weren't listening to me while I was reading, because I felt like you were talking all the time. I had the impression you didn't hear anything, but you remembered a lot of things. First, I have to say that it is not correct to call in this way and connect the National Employment Service and say – unlike any previous period since 2012, when only one party goes to get a job, now look at the number of competitions you have on the portals of all ministries and all public enterprises and all institutions across Serbia. These competitions, unlike the 2000-2012 period, have not been set up. As far as helicopters are concerned, yes, I'm on a helicopter to Majdanpek to visit the Serbian Army that is working on a flood recovery in the municipality of Donji Milanovac, where at this time and for the last 10 days we have a lot of Serbian Army machines, unlike the departure of some previous ministers in the period from 2000-2012 to summer in Greece by military helicopter or parties by individual towns of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8708	I thank the minister. You've a little confused me with this unknown information. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8709	Not according to the Rules of Procedure, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8710	He didn't mention you, and I see you're holding the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8711	That was before, when Mr. Djurisic spoke, so I gave up because Mr. Gasic really spoke rightly about the loan, and now I would like a replica because the government was mentioned and because I signed the state of the points of the united agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8712	Then Zoran Babic has a word, a replica, because he personally asked for the merger of all points and his signature stands there. (Borko Stefanovic, from the scene: I didn't say that? Who said anything about him? We'll get a stenogram. Not that you were talking, but you had a whole discussion. Do you remember my sentence – is this a discussion of matter for you? You said, yes, the discussion of matter. Minister Gasic did not ask for the merger of these points. Please, Zoran Babic, two minutes, explain the merger point. Ambassador Stefanovic, you've reached out again. Find me in the Rules of Procedure a replica of the Minister. The Rules of Procedure you have written speak of the replicas of MPs and MPs. There's no replica with ministers. It seems that's what you felt when you were most, that there's no replica with ministers. Find me a member of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to Ambassador Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8713	Madam President, only if we can get the time back. It's okay, thank you. The government is a collective organ. Each of these 18 points of the agenda, a proposal for an agreement or a proposal for a law confirming the agreement, the ministers and members of the government voted. Does anyone in this room think in public that there are people in the government who only understand themselves in their own area who don't read what comes from other ministries? Do you think we were still in the time until 2012, the former regime, when every ministry was a special nahiji, a special property, where no one, because of the preservation of such governments, anachronic governments, was allowed to interfere with the other? He shouldn't have said anything. Why is it strange that a minister who voted in favour of all 18 legislative proposals would come and explain why he voted in favour of the 18 legislative proposals? Why do you think there are people sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia just thinking about the Army or the trade or I don't know what? What he is entrusted with and not involved in the business of the other, at least by giving him advice, at least by reading what other colleagues in the government of the Republic of Serbia are proposing. It's been a while, a long time since the time of phone sessions, a government that met when they met, when they had free time. This is the time of responsible people, responsible governments, governments facing a reform course. Governments in which foreign courts are legally connected, communicate, interfere, suggest, come up with the best solutions. I am sure that both Mr. Gasic and other members of the government have read before they voted in the government and sent the National Assembly to the vote, read these 18 legislative proposals. If the only problem is the form, why is there only Mr. Gasic, and not half of the government, then that is another reason why all 18 proposed draft laws of the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8714	The word is by MP Borko Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8715	Don't ask about form, it's not the point. We asked clear questions, we know we can't get answers to questions. We don't do it from the cover. We're trying to hear the answer to what people's money is specifically about. We're also asking you to use one of the few means of flight. You say - some went to the sea and to Greece. Say who, specifically. Every flight, Mr. Minister, is recorded and there's a budget log. It's impossible for someone to go to the sea without being recorded. You're in charge as a minister, when you've already said that, and to show it to the public, let's see who that man was doing it. Let's see why our officials are difficult from Raska to Kosovo, to Belgrade, from Raska when they go to Kosovo to take the car than they have to by helicopter. Well, then report them, too, to see how Marko Djuric is, how is Vulin, why they use that helicopter for those purposes. You're the Secretary of Defense, I understand that, but the fact that someone is going from Belgrade to Raška by helicopter, I don't understand. The bottom line is, we're asking you to try to answer some of the questions regarding expenditure at the National Employment Service. So, that's what I'm asking you. All this rest is noise and anger and the whole government is unique and that's why it's not weird, and that's why everyone should understand everything. But the problem with me is that you're the only one who has to answer other people's questions, you understand what I'm trying to point to here, your attention to this problem, and this whole thing, I really wouldn't be spending energy every month a percent less being much less.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8716	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8717	I thank Mr. Stefanovic for that concern of how I'm going to manage here today, and imagine that I would bring anything out that doesn't exactly stand the paper where it's seen when, who, how much and how it flew in the period 2000 to 2012. That's no problem, and those questions that you want to ask, because that wasn't the subject, the use of helicopters and aircraft of the Serbian Army wasn't a topic, but you've skillfully failed through your exposure, and I'm going to make an effort today to get along with these wonderful people who are here from other ministries to answer every question you've asked, don't worry, just sooner or later. As far as this is concerned, I'm telling you, without any problem, ask the Ministry of Defense a question you'll get exactly what's right when you, where and how you flew during your term, and what you say to Raska, I don't remember military helicopters flying that flight, and I'll answer you very gladly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8718	I thank the ministers. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go. Discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8719	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning of my presentation to say that I really like this style of government work. In some period when there was not this much investment, government members in very small numbers also came on the last Thursday of the month in this home to answer the questions of MPs. You are witnessing that since the formation of this government, almost all last Thursday's ministers have attended answering the questions of the MPs. Well, it's normal for the prime minister and a large number of ministers to visit a very important country today, related to economic co-operation, to continue to invest, don't you think that state secretaries and officials of the relevant ministries can competently respond to all the dilemmas that have been raised here? And what are the dilemmas? According to my predecessors' statements, I don't see it, unless it's a problem to merge this point regarding the National Employment Service's financial plan, the discussions suggest that the draft law on the confirmation of the agreement is quite fine. There have been objections here that penetrate the sphere of political demagogy. Why an emergency procedure? Well, we're going to have more and more draft laws by emergency procedure, because this government is doing a lot of work, working fast, according to my assessment, successfully working, and we can't possibly carry out some rough debates here, day-to-day debates, because simple time and commitment and reality have us working out that we have to sort things out in our society. There were remarks from Mr Stefanovic why three billion dinars when the Brussels Agreement envisioned other solutions in Kosovo and Metohija. I would remind, and he knows exactly the Brussels Agreement has been reached, but it has not been implemented on the ground and we cannot not issue money for the salaries of our fellow citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. It was here around the helicopter. I may belong to a group of MPs who flew the most by helicopters, but some of the basics of ignorance are causing these dilemmas. With helicopters, gentlemen fly sometimes when the urgency of tasks and the importance of the task is more than spending and the cost of that flight, and I believe that every minister of defense is a good judge when necessary, where and at what time he arrives as the fastest means of transport. I would now refer to some proposals and, above all, to these agreements, to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the Protection of Secret Information. These proposals have already established proposals that many countries today sign in the world and are a prerequisite for improving co-operation in other areas, not only in the area of security but also in foreign affairs, in the area of internal affairs, in the area of defence, in the area of co-operation of security services. These laws are twice useful because they provide for the improvement of co-operation in the security sector, they define a way to exchange and protect classified military data. Each serious country today maintains that its security information must know how the other party to the contract will deal with such classified information. It is an essential security culture that is the prerequisite for every international agreement on this plan. This agreement, these agreements on the exchange of classified data, contribute to better co-operation of Southeast European countries, but what is crucial, should be cited, is that they contribute more effectively to the global security challenges, risks and threats facing today's planet. You can imagine what positive implications both for one and the other countries will have a proposal for an Agreement on the Exchange of Secret Information between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina from the aspect of some current events, security events that today burden both the country and the other. As for the participation of our peace contingent within the EU peace force, namely the EU and UN mission in the Central African Republic, it is also one of the tasks of our Serbian army in line with the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the strategic review of defence, one of the three missions and we, by fact, contribute to the adoption of this decision that the Serbian Army can complete one of the three key missions outlined in those strategic documents. What good does the Republic of Serbia benefit from the participation of its military members in peacekeeping operations, each of you knows, primarily in a time when, due to the lack of financial resources, in a serious technological lag behind some of the leading countries of the EU and the world, our members, through participation in peace operations, ensure that they are familiar with new technologies, new means of war technology, new procedures in the work of command, headquarters, new skills and knowledge, and that is in the aspect of strengthening the combatability of our units positively. From the perspective of foreign policy, it is known that Serbia contributes to maintaining international peace and this strengthens our foreign-political credibility and strengthens our country's external-political potential. What may be worrying about this decision is the assessment given by the Ministry of Defence in terms of a complex security situation in the Central African Republic and I would take this opportunity to ask once again the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, that very, and I have repeatedly said that when proposals of such agreements, to carefully assess the security risks and negative security implications for the participation of our military members in the peace operations and not to suggest the planting of our military members in high-risk operations that can reciprocate negative security implications for your country's security. I think the Central African Republic is somewhere on the border with the security of the situation in that country, but if we were to go further towards someone, I think the most risky operation in Lebanon is the Ministry's representatives, but I think it's quite risky and the participation of our military members in a peace operation in the Central African Republic. It is necessary to make a clear limit when we think about whether or not we will allow our troops to participate in some high-risk peace operations, because this as a boomerang can be returned through international terrorism and through various challenges of international tourism for our country's security. In any case, the SNS parliamentary club will support all these proposals of the agreement. These remarks concerning the National Employment Service could be made an exception for competent people from the ministry to explain the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8720	The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8721	I thank you, General Stojanovic, for discussing this with you is always a challenge for me and for my associates. The same answer to both you and Mr. Djurisic, who is now out. First, the forces of the Serbian Army are located in the western part of the Central African Republic and that is the safest part, where there are no military acts. Why is 78, how was the question, not 75? Because in the meantime, the EU has asked for another member of the medical team, and the UN has asked for two more military observers, so we are trying to get out of this law. What is very important to know is the huge interest among the members of the Serbian Army in going to peace operations. We are simply trying to make it possible for many of them to come and their coefficient, depending on the country where they are and the percentage of security is increased, so in Lebanon 3.1% at this point, relative to Cyprus where it is 0.00. As for the safety of our contingent, absolutely, the first thing we care about is the safety of our people and members of the Serbian Army in all peacekeeping missions, and in these seven in which we are present, and in these two in which we will be present. I'll read you everything else here now. Our UN contingent in the Central African Republic provides a Moroccan military police contingent and provides common European forces in the EU contingent in the Central African Republic. So, since the start of the crisis in this country, several international organisations: the UN, the EU, the African Union and the Republic of France are trying to find a solution to the peaceful solution to the conflict in this country, to stop killing, to protect the civilian population, and to provide the flow of humanitarian aid. In view of the significant deterioration of the security of the situation, in order to protect civilians and fundamental human rights, the Council of Peace and Security of the African Union approved, as a regional African organisation on 19 July 2013, the engagement of an international mission to support the Central African Republic, led by the African Union's forces, which under its command put the Peace Building Mission in the Central African Republic, led by the Central African Economic Community. The transfer of duties was carried out on 19 December 2013 on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2127. Why is it important for me to read this and so do you and the citizens of Serbia? Because there's a lot of different comments about why members of the army go. You mentioned earlier, Mr Stojanovic, that one of the basic missions is just participating in the Serbian Army's peacekeeping operations. The French forces are part of Operation Sangeris, also sent to the Central African Republic 6. 12. In 2013, as part of the Security Council's mandate, to take all necessary measures to support the mission. The EU Council established an EU military operation in the Central African Republic and hired EU forces in this country for six months to reach full operational capacity on 15 July 2014. The mandate of the operation will most likely be periodically extended. EU forces are currently providing Mpoko airport and providing temporary support for the establishment of a security environment in the capital. The UN Security Council, based on Resolution 2149 of 10 April 2014, establishes a multidimensional integrated UN Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic with a mandate of 30 April 2015. The mandate of a peace operation will most likely be periodically extended. Acting in accordance with Chapter VII of the UN Charter, the Security Council authorised a newly formed multidimensionally integrated peacekeeping operation to take all necessary measures to carry out its mandate within its capacity and within the assigned area of engagement. The engagement zone covers the area of operation and the area of interest. The area of operations is defined by the territorial borders of the Central African Republic, and the area of interest covers the territory of neighbouring countries and member states of the Central African Economic Community. It is planned for the security of 11.820 uniformed persons, of which 10,000 soldiers and 1,820 police personnel. Of the total number of military personnel, the deployment of 200 staff officers and 240 military observers was planned. Following a positive stance by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia on an informal offer from the UN to hire medical staff of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Serbia at the UN on 7 July 2014 submitted a letter to the UN Secretariat informing our side that the involvement of military medical personnel of the Serbian Army was accepted. What are the obligations and restrictions that have been delivered to us by the UN? The deployment of military medical staff until December 2014 in order to achieve the full operational capacity of the Mission on 1 January 2015, to ensure a number of conditions and specialities of military-medical personnel in accordance with the required minimum, in national jurisdiction, the security of personal weapons and ammunition, the knowledge of English by the engaged people for official, operational and radio communications. It is desirable that medical staff also know the French language at work in order to avoid difficulties in communicating with patients during medical treatment of members who speak only French. The responsibility of this mission – security and security of military-medical personnel of the Serbian Army and two complete hospitals, level 2 in Bangaj. The possible readiness of the Serbian Army contingent by the competent institutions is expected in November 2014, ahead of the mission reference. The United Nations makes up for the cost of reconnaissance of the zone for up to five days in the area of operation, up to two members of Serbia's delegation maximum. These are some of the characteristics of these two missions that I think, in addition to all the other seven missions that we have at the moment, show respect that international institutions have for Serbia's military, and above all for our VMA, where we have a large number of foreign states, a large number of participants and this year foreign states, because this is exactly what the Serbian Army is showing on the ground and why it gets so much respect, because it shows that in the Serbian Army all our partners can have absolute confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8722	The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8723	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Defence Minister Mr Gasic, honourable fellow MPs, this set of laws on international agreements that we are discussing today contains 17 diverse agreements from several areas of social life. They are all the fruit of our country's good bilateral and multilateral co-operation with other European and world states. Although each of these agreements is important, I will look back today on a set of laws relating to the protection of classified information and classified military information. Such agreements are signed by Serbia, and we now only confirm them, with several countries in the environment, as well as with other countries. These are contracts with Slovenia, BiH, Macedonia, the Czech Republic and the United States. A set of acts concerning the military-security sector also includes a decision on the use and participation of Serbian military members in the UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic and the EU military operation in this country. Those agreements shall relate in a manner of exchange and protection of classified information, i.e. dealing with them and their classification. The result of the adoption of these types of agreements is to achieve a good level of bilateral co-operation, providing even better overall political, economic relations between the signatories. The adoption of these agreements is, above all, further confirmed and improved security relations, which today is of key importance for countries that are considered mutually allies. Madam President, please provide me with the conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8724	I didn't intervene anything. Keep going. I'm asking MP Zivkovic not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8725	These agreements are important for Serbia for reasons that it sign them not only with countries in the region, but also with other countries, which can also contribute to our but also to European, global security. In this way we act actively and create conditions of joint action against all challenges, risks, threats to which we are exposed. I would also point to the fact that, for the purposes of these types of agreements, the Central Register for Foreign Secret Information has been established within the Office of the National Security and Secret Data Protection Council, as well as sub-registries in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, missions by Serbia to NATO and the United Nations, the Ministry of Defence and the BIA. This legal solution enables better control and reduces the possibility of data abuse, because it will know exactly who handles the registers. The obligations under the agreement are realised by a better organisation and will not constitute an additional financial cost for the state budget. When the issue of decisions on the use and participation of Serbia in the United Nations peace operation and the EU military operation in the Central African Republic is likely a dilemma as to why it is now being confirmed. It was not covered by the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations for 2014. The reason is that missions to both the UN and the EU in the Central African Republic were established only early this year, an EU military operation on 28 January 2014, and a UN peacekeeping operation on 10 April 2014, therefore, following the adoption of the annual plan for 2014. It is precisely the fact that Serbia, or the Serbian Army, is invited to participate in this mission that Serbia is recognised as a reliable partner and an active factor in preserving international peace and security in the world. In participation in this multinational mission, Serbia simultaneously fulfils its international obligations and proves its commitment to contribute to security. At the same time, by participating in the EU mission, Serbia is showing its European definition, i.e. to contribute to the EU's common security and defence policy. The situation in the Central African Republic characterizes a conflict on a religious and ethnic basis, a large number of internally displaced persons, a threat to the division of the state and incomplete control of the central government throughout the territory. Serbia will contribute to this multinational mission with more than 70 of its members, which will include staff officers and medical staff. The funding for participation in this mission, amounting to 74m dinars, has been provided in the 44m budget and 30m dinars are provided by the UN. I would point out that the Serbian Army is now actively participating in eight peacekeeping missions with 214 of its members. It is commendable that the military minister, Mr Gasic, visited more contingents of our peace representatives in a very short time, thus giving them thanks and recognition, thus showing that our country is loyal to peace. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government on security measures for the protection of military data has special significance, starting with the fact that co-operation in the area of military co-operation with the United States is at a fairly developed level. The SPS MPs will support the laws I have spoken of, as well as the other laws in this joint search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8726	There are no more authorised representatives reported, so let's move on to the list of members of the public who are registered to debate. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8727	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the DS will be against one law that has been passed here, and this is the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2014. This was discussed in more detail by Mr Stefanovic on behalf of the DS and our parliamentary group. Of course, we will be for most of the laws proposed here, with a big comment that this is how it was proposed to the Assembly to discuss such important issues. I'm going to concentrate on one of the laws that I think I know well enough, because I was a part of creating a strategy at the 2012 World Postal Federation Congress in Doha. I think it is interesting and important from that point of view to say that by proposing one of these laws and adopting such a law and the Doha strategy since 2012 it has been recognised here that there have been some good things in Serbia before 2012. Yes, it was good, because then we participated as the postal administration and the JP "Post-Serbia" and the Republic Agency for Postal Traffic and the Ministry of Telecommunications in the adoption and creation of this strategy. You have now put it as your proposal, which speaks of one of the few continuitys and important continuitys. In that sense, it is important to stress that we have the right to do so, and you have the right to say that life in Serbia existed before 2012. I think it's very important and it's important progress. With great interest and very carefully I listened to your inspiring explanation of all these proposals, which is that in 1874 you read that the World Postal Union was formed with the participation of the then small Principality of Serbia, but with enough smart people and aware of how important it is to establish contacts in the world, communication among people, how important it is to establish communication between cities, among countries, among continents, then in the 19th century. It seems to me that we can learn exactly from that example that you have read, that we can communicate here in a civilized way, and that we are speaking precisely with arguments, and that we have the right to praise that some generations have done well for this Serbia, no matter what political option they belonged to. The 19th century also marked the formation of such a system, but it marked this great growth that we now have in Switzerland, at the Bern Founding Congress, on the post office building, in the centre of Zurich, among the 22 names of the world countries then and a single name of Serbia, then a small state, which was smart enough to participate in such a process. What do we have today? We have a united discussion and one argument that cannot be acceptable to me, and that's why it says in this bill, which is why we're adopting this as an emergency procedure. We are adopting an emergency procedure that was adopted in Doha in September, from 15 September to the beginning of October 2012. It's been two years, and we now have reasons, missing those two years, to adopt all of this by emergency procedure, along with 16 other documents and a bill of law, by emergency procedure. I'll ask you, Mr. Minister, for that very reason, what's the reason for that? Is there a right answer for that? It's hard to get that answer. I asked that question at the beginning of the presentation, so that you could get a suggestion and a response from the people who are in charge of these things. If we had a separate discussion, we would have had the opportunity to discuss and share an opinion with you on the details of the contract and what it will mean for the state of Serbia, what it will mean for the citizens of Serbia, what it will mean for the public postal operator, for the Public Enterprise of the Post Office of Serbia. It may seem like an irrelevant topic, but I believe that this is also an important topic, because you will agree, and we have heard the argument that all ministers have certainly read very carefully the text of these laws that we adopt in this assembly, that it is very important to discuss what is the strategy of both the Post Office and the Post Office of Serbia and the way it can encourage, in the emerging circumstances of accelerated technological information development, the economic development of Serbia, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and large systems, telecommunications capacities and new spaces, especially in the conquest of these communications and the expansion of development, comets and services that the Post of Serbia, in this sense, can offer to the entire state, our infrastructure and our economy. In this way it seems pointless to talk about these details. So I'm going to ask you -- do you agree with this strategy from Doha and part of that strategy that says you should continue with the three-dimensional development of infrastructure, both financial and informational, but also physical infrastructures? How do you encourage this development and how do you avoid the challenges of less and less communication in physical terms, but increasing electronic development? Where's Serbia? What is it necessary for the Post of Serbia to do, because here we see one of the arguments, one of the arguments that no financial means is needed for the state of Serbia to implement this law? Here I ask you - do you think there is no obligation for Serbia and is the Post Office of Serbia ready to come out with this kind of development, as well as to answer these questions and answer these obligations? The obligations will be exactly what I mentioned, as obligations will be to strengthen co-operation with customs, establish communications and establish a more efficient database. I will remind you that it has been done and invested right now on this topic in facilitating communication and facilitating exports through the exchange of data and the formation of one of the important services, which is the post-express, which should be continued. It was part of the contribution of both the Post Office of Serbia and the then Government of the Republic of Serbia to the adoption of the Doha strategy. I'm going to ask you if you agree with such a concept and what do you think this future development of infrastructure and investment in optical infrastructure, which is important from both the security and the state aspect, but also from the aspect of the economy? Is it important that the post office continues to work on behalf of the state and incentivise the development of electronic administrations, as well as on the subject of providing information infrastructure regarding electronic digital signatures, regarding the time stamp and the way to ensure safe communication, which is one of the conditions of this strategy that we need to talk about today in this Assembly Hall, which was adopted in Doha two years ago? I think it's more important for Serbian citizens than who participated in the local elections than the minister. I think it is important to say that the job of both prime minister and minister is to discuss these topics and the way these contracts will affect the citizens of Serbia and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, and I will remind you that, since I was a participant and the 2008 World Postal Congress in Geneva, as well as the 2012 World Postal Congress in Doha, this period marked a serious growth as well as the continuity of Serbian post office growth after 2012, and precisely thanks to the respect of innovation and development, which has also contributed to the overall World Postage Union, which is why the Post-Serb has been awarded the Golden Certificate of Quality, as the fastest growing postal operator in Southeast Europe with the fastest growing quality. That's what you should say here. I think this is a serious breakthrough. That you came out here with a bill of this law and said that the government, in which it had DS, had good things in the period from 2008 to 2012. We are now behind these good things, behind the strategy she participated in, and that is really progress. So, the DS will vote for some of these proposals that she herself participated in. Some of the proposals, especially about military co-operation, which you have submitted as a proposal, will certainly not support, as well as this bill and the way the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are now being given the adoption of the National Employment Service financial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8728	The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8729	Mr. Ciric, after your inspirational presentation, and I know that you've been Director General of the Post of Serbia for many years, and now you're employed there, in the professional section, surely I can't answer you today. None of us, and I believe that none of my SNS colleagues, said nothing was right in the country of Serbia during some previous period. We're trying to fix something that broke in that period. When you say, "Why an emergency procedure?" This act shall be in accordance with the World Postal Federation Decision and shall apply from 1 January 2014. This law has already been in the process, but due to institutional changes it has been restored again, as well as the law we just talked about and that has to go through the whole procedure again. Do I agree? Professional services, you see for yourself, the Post Office of Serbia is already implementing an act adopted at this 2012 Congress, and given that it refers to international postal traffic. Serbia's mail is ready to implement all these decisions. We follow all the positive trends in the Post Office of Serbia. These services of three-dimensional networks are deeply implemented in the Post Office of Serbia. I don't know what more to answer. What my proposal was, and what was the beginning of your presentation, you apriories already refused to accept the Law on Giving for the National Employment Service because someone told you so. I think it's in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, above all. Why? First, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service's financial plan is only to adapt what is already in the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, which the National Assembly has already adopted. The financial plan then envisioned 1,667,000,000 dinars. With this rebalancing, we're increasing what's a good thing, I think, to 2,423,250,000. Why? Because now that we've looked at all the enterprises in restructuring, when we've looked at all the people and citizens of Serbia who are interested in coming to the National Service in the next five years, they're getting paid, they're getting paid, they're getting a job and they're retired for five years. I think that's what we're helping Serbian citizens with. I don't understand why you won't vote for something good and useful for Serbian citizens. Only in 90 restructuring companies, which are obliged to complete the restructuring process by the end of this year, 2,689 users reported. These funds go right to them, to receive their own income for the next five years, to receive pension and social benefits, and to retire for five years. You say the costs, yes, on the 425, are the costs of running repairs and maintenance for over 180 construction facilities that the National Service has. Of course, they have a large number of computer equipment. There's 426 materials on the line. We need to get forms for unemployed persons, professional materials, literature and whatever it takes. I don't see anything about it, as you just said, why 18 laws are proposed, and one minister defends them, because something is underneath it. It's easy to say, but I don't see anything here. I feel sorry for you a little bit, and even those who ask the question come out quickly and I can't answer everything I get. Earlier, Mr. Djuric set up, under Article 20b, a permanent partner with whom there is a relationship similar to marriage to official records in one of the parties. What's this about? That question was just a moment ago, a population, etc. It's a provision of working legal character, not a question in the area of family law. Here, you see how the secretary of state works and you get all the answers, you don't need anything written, Mr. Stefanovic, to look. You all get the same moment with us, you just need a little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8730	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104) Explain to me on what basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8731	I think Mr. Ciric misread my words when I spoke about the Ministers in the Government reading before voting for all 18 legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8733	Thank you. In my hands, and I live in such a system, both in such a state and in such a world where information is available, everything that is done today, but also what was done two, three or more years ago, is in my hands the decision, I have a call and a united debate signed on 27 February 2012. The united debate involved 27 points of the agenda. Twenty-seven points of the agenda that Houdini could not bring together, because they refer to the protocols of heavy metals, to maritime traffic, to education for social inclusion, to the roads for the Ljig-Boljkovci-Taovo section, to the absence of the “Nikola Tesla” thermal power plant. We also have a debt to the bridge on Ada, and we have that. We have all sorts of things where 27 agenda points are joined together in a united debate, and that's from those who are now in the way of 18. That's when they could read, that's when they could understand everything and accept everything. But we also have a true love letter and that love letter sent in the twilight of a bad regime. This love letter was so made that you do not see a tree from the forest, and this tree that was to be seen in those 27 points of the united debate is called the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the So-called Generale Bank of Serbia ad Belgrade, Erste Banka, etc., United Credit Banka Serbia and Aik Banka, under the responsibility of "Gallenika" ad Belgrade. In the twilight of one regime at 27 points in a united debate that did not bother the MPs at the time, we received a task for sculptures, for Velefarm, for all the bad things that were done in Galenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8734	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Please, Members of the People's Parliament, I ask that the real problem of uniting the agenda points should not be brought to such a level that the MPs ultimately decided most of them had decided. Being resentful is his problem. Mr. Stefanovic, on what basis, is now a replica. You want a replica of Kiric. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8735	You've just confirmed my claim that this is not a way and you're once again confirming your argument that this agenda was not logical and I agree with that. Your argument was an excuse for the current agenda point and the unification of 16 points of the agenda, as it had not been good before. Of course it wasn't good before, but now you've confirmed this wasn't good either. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8736	I won't allow this replica to unite the agenda points. It's really pointless for me. Let's move on. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8737	We have 18 connected points, and I can't accept any reasonable explanation why it needs to be done. Calling the past, of course it was bad, and 27 and 25 is completely pointless. This is a degradation of parliamentaryism, and I'm surprised that fellow MPs admit that whatever comes from the government, any proposal, to accept it immediately. It is not good for parliamentaryism in Serbia. That's not good for Serbia in general. Not just for this call, but for some future. That you have 18 points in a united debate with 13 different topics, here is to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what these are: protection of classified data with five countries, social security, economic co-operation, the World Postal Union, road traffic, the Centre for Water, the work of members of the family of diplomats, the medium-term forecast of time, veterinary, loan, peace mission and the financial plan of the NSZ, what does this have to do with one another? Then we can put all the dots together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8738	Mr. Zivkovic, please, it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8739	I can't miss the theme, 18 points, whatever I say... (Disabled microofn. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8740	Mr. Zivkovic, you have to listen to me. I'll give it to you in time. Uniting agenda points is not a topic of discussion. The agenda includes discussions on the agreements that are here, which the government has proposed. Please, if you have anything to say about the agreements, go ahead. Do not talk about the problems of uniting the agenda points. Here you go. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8741	I don't know what right you're giving yourself to judge what I'm talking about. I repeat, when you have 18 points united, then you can talk about everything. This includes everything alive. From the existence of the world to any topic. We have some other agreements we expected to see today, let's say, a contract with Mercedes that was promised today, in September 8th, from the top of today's government. I'm surprised it's not there. It would be perfectly natural to be along with this veterinary agreement, with Afghanistan or the Water Center, or to choose for yourself as from the Swedish table, any of what we're talking about today. Of course most of these agreements are needed today. Of course, the two of us, the NS MPs, are going to support the biggest part of all these agreements, and of course we're not going to vote for the NSZ budget because we're not going to make that decision, and who has to or who wants to understand it. It's political pragmatism. Of course, there is no reason for us to be in debt more than we do now, so we will not support a loan with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development because it will further increase our debt, which is normally rising by 45 euros every second and you can see it on the front page of the NS site, exactly in this second, what is Serbia's debt after two years of advanced power. A bad example that becomes a rule creates problems that are insecure for a longer period of time. There is no need, at least not in Parliament to convince ourselves that there is a point in 18 points in defending one minister, with 16 officials, secretaries and other officials who cannot say a word, because it is such a Rules of Procedure, and they would have something to say, because they have both experience and knowledge from these areas. This is now a theater, a small opera show where these people who currently have more than SNS MPs in the O.R., play accompanying vocals or part of the set. It is a violation of the reputation of both the state administration and the government, not just parliament. I hope we will no longer have examples of a bad organisation and a poor approach to parliamentaryism and government in Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8742	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8743	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. The Honorable Chairman, the decommissioning of parliament would be, when you call the Assembly a theater just like this, and you do not react, and in that way it speaks to you in an incredibly loud tone, as presidents. Speaking of degrading parliament, at a time when someone was prime minister, we had 300 MPs in the assembly. It was not known who was voting, nor who was voting, and we remember voting from Bodrum, so much for the government to survive, so much for this degradation of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8744	Mr. Djukanovic, as far as advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I can only say that I did not pay attention to it. For me, it was the essence of what this man was trying to do. If you think he deserves us to say yes in the day of the vote? (No) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8745	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Associates of the Minister, I am also dissatisfied with the fact that certain points are not on the agenda. I think it's a little bit of an agreement to save time, to save on citizens' taxes, to find some other agreement here, and I've seen that there are some agreements in the veterinary field with Albania, and I'd like that agricultural and veterinary project to be here. When there was a talk of veterinary, a former colleague, my professional colleague, showed me in my direction, I'm not a doctor of that kind, I can't provide such medical services, but as far as the vet is concerned, I'd like another agreement to be found. I'm also unhappy that there is no agreement here with France, agreement on calamaritry and viticulture. That would be a very interesting agreement and I think my previous colleague would like it to be found. I'll talk about the agreements in the next row. First I will talk about the loan that I will not vote for it, here, as a member, as I am accused by the ruling majority, and the ruling majority also knows that there are many of those laws and proposals that I do not vote for. So, this is unlike some former ruling coalitions, allowed everyone to think for themselves, that he doesn't have to go to the presidency for his own opinion and that he can vote as he wills and that a group of MPs can be democratic on the inside. So, I am an MP for the People's Peasant Party, I belong to the SNS parliamentary group, but I reserve the right to have a different position, as every SNS MP has the right to express his position, not to, in their opinion, go, as before, to the presidency, to the government or to the party. So MPs who don't use that right, it's a mistake to them and not to some freedom that's being respected here, that we're not democratic enough. Here, I'm not voting for this loan to the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. I'll tell you why, because of Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobank. I would vote to save still be able to secure their deposits of 50,000 euros, but I fear that tycoons, friends of the previous regime, or politicians in power, who were in the previous regime, have their friends tycoons who have pumped millions, tens and hundreds of millions of euros from these banks, and the Deposit Insurance Agency has guaranteed precisely those loans, so the money from there is pumped. Now by raising the loan, we owe the people. When the state is in debt, the people write notes. I'm not voting to hire millions of citizens to amnesty the millionaires. I'm not voting for that because I don't think there's enough punishment for those who've made a problem at Vojvodina Development Bank and those who've made a problem in Agrobanks. So it's about people who were prime ministers and governors of the National Bank. Just to remind you that the minority shareholders from Agrobank are going to sue us for being damaged by the establishment of the new Agrobank and have already addressed international courts. For the reason that they weren't punished enough, and they acted so that I was no longer able to assess which side of the counter was robbed of that bank. So, I even think that the administration of the AP Vojvodina, thinking about how to rob a bank, decided not to rob it, but to open the Metals Bank into the Vojvodina Development Bank and thus get the money. The money was primarily used by the political elite, used by their tycoons friends. They're not punished enough and I'm also asking from this place to speed up these investigations, that they be brought to justice in a certain way, and then I'd be very happy to vote for the state to be in charge of 200 million to make up for the small savings and make sure that 50,000 of their savings are secured. I repeat, I cannot vote for millionaires at the expense of millions of citizens. And so I ask that, until the end, the responsibility of those who contributed to Agrobank's transition to the new Agrobank, that Metals Bank go to Vojvodina Development Bank, be the easy prey of politicians and their tycoon friends, who were mostly masters of transition and before that robbed the entire social capital. You are the chairman of the United States of America, but this 200-million-dollar loan is just rising for those purposes that I'm talking about, which I have the right to talk about. Furthermore, as far as veterinary matters are concerned, I fully support it, and there's a colleague from the Veterans Authority who's amenable, I fully support co-operation with Azerbaijan. I wish we had veterinary co-operation with all the countries, since infectious diseases are very transmitted, since we already know about bird flu everything, we know about swine flu everything, that we know all about PJU fever, that we know everything about Ebola. These are diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. With this in mind, we should support every agreement that our country has signed during any government, during the current government and future governments, we should all support each such agreement, given that in such a way we are not only saving endangered livestock health, but also saving people who can be health-threatening through animal diseases. Ebola is the last disease, and therefore I want to thank this opportunity of the Department of Veterinary and Ministry, whose work we have many regrets, and those who are on the Committee on Agriculture know, but this time on the matter of Ebola have taken preventive measures to ensure that our country is fully protected by quarantine control from any possible occurrence in this territory. So, apart from criticizing, I can also commend the part that the Veterinary Authority did well. I think this contract is going in the right direction. As far as the military is concerned, I support all agreements, but I don't think the Army is what I'd like it to be and that it's not the fault of the current configuration and of the current minister. I'm a peasant man, we loved the army the most in the country. In such a society and we grew up where it was a shame to live in the country, it was a shame to go to recruiting without serving a military term. Rare are individuals who have tried to avoid a military deadline. There were more people who did not meet health standards and could not serve a military deadline, and they wanted in various ways to prove that they were capable of serving a military deadline. However, there are individuals who have avoided military service, who have not been peasants all along, but for two or three years to take subsidies. For example, in 1979, they made their own false diagnosis to be released from the military term. They didn't want to serve the state, but later they wanted to operate and serve the state, which for me as farmers and peasants professionally, not those of character, was unacceptable to me. Today we were just listening to criticism from that side. Although it wasn't military agreements, it was probably the one who didn't serve the army, in my generation it was a shame. It was thought that the man was not finished enough if he didn't serve the military deadline, so we competed who would serve the Navy for 18 months, so who would serve the guard, who would serve...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8746	Marian, please, it's not the subject of military service now, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8747	Mr. Chairman, this is where they talked about parties, about exercises...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8748	I understand, if anyone can understand you, I can understand you in that sense, but it's not the subject of military service, it's the subject of discussion of agreements. Please get back to the deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8749	I have to make an introduction, like a soldier who served for 15 months, who understands all these military agreements, unlike some who have avoided military service. So I want to fully support military agreements that, at least minimally, raise the struggles of our army and talk about the reasons why the army makes those agreements. We don't think we're setting them up to raise someone else's wartime, I guess we're going in the direction, rebuilding military service, even if the people are training in the nearest barracks. To be an army again, for I was in a great country whose army was destroyed, to destroy that country through the destruction of the army. When the country collapsed, the country's economy was destroyed, and that's why we have the condition that we have now. That's why I support these agreements, and I think that the military needs to give far more than these agreements, that we should renew the service of the military, even if it is served in the nearest barracks to have a reserve system, to have civil protection, so that we can at least defend ourselves against the floods, so that at least we can defend ourselves against any territorial pretentences from these armies around here made of the mob, while before these armies made us almost nothing. So I'm saying that agreements aren't enough, that in the future we have to build a state, that we have to spend time in effort, sweat and torture, to raise the state, to raise an army, because whoever doesn't feed his army, will feed someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8750	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Arsenovic, the minister is not here, the honored guests and guests, we are participating today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8752	Mr Pavicevic, I can, if it's important for you to be Minister, I can make a precedent to ask the next MP who wants to discuss, and you can call back later.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8753	I think it's very important for the minister to be here, but here, since the minister here now has a large number of associates and associates, my expectation is that they will pass on to him what has been said here, so that we don't disrupt some order in this National Assembly. So today we are taking part in the debate on the following points of the agenda: point 1. — Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information (Act 05 No 011-5996/2014 of 23 June 2014); point 2. -Proposal of a law confirming a security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Act 05 No 011-5997/2014 of 23 June 2014); point 3. - Proposal for a law confirming a security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information (Act 05 01-1683/2014 of 9 July 2014); point 4. - Proposal for a law confirming a security agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information (with Act 05 No 011-5998/2014 of 23 June 2014, Honored Minister Gasic, welcome); here is the Progressive Party reacting, as soon as the minister arrives or is applauding. I don't know what's going on. Point 5. - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States concerning security measures for the protection of classified military data (Act 05 011-7950/2014 of 1 August 2014, the Honored Chairman of General Arsenovic); Point 6. - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary on Social Security (Act 05 No 011-7472/2014 of 10 July 2014, honourable Members of Parliament); point 7. - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Tunisia (Act 05 No 011-6614/2014 of 7 July 2014); point 8. - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union (Act 05 No 011-7036/2014 of 11 July 2014); Point 9 of the Honored Chairman Arsenović - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and things (Act 05 No 011-7695/2014 of 18 July 2014); then point 10. - Proposal for a law on certification between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road transport (Act 05 No 011-7695/2014 of 18 July 2014). Dear Mr. Arsenovic, it's been five minutes and I've only been able to read the names of the first 10 of the 18 points that we need to discuss today. Does it, the Honorable Chairman of Arsenovica, make sense that we work in this National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8754	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8755	If I'd known Professor Pavicevic that you were going to read, I wouldn't have read all of this, but I would have cut it short. I listened to every word you said when I was outside, so you know I didn't miss anything, and, of course, my associates prepared me all the things that interest you. When the establishment and what the benefits of signing an agreement with the United States are, I will read you five things that are very important, and in this context you can also see these agreements that we have with Slovenia and Hungary. It is not literally, as you have presented the exchange of classified information alone, a legal framework is being established that allows the parties to co-operate and two defence ministers are responsible for implementing it. First, there is an excellent reference to all the other partners in the world, among all the other partners in the world for co-operation in this area, when it comes to the exchange of confidential data. A promotion of military and intelligence co-operation. Improving co-operation in the field of research and development. Serbia's military will be able to participate in many exercises of international and activities that have so far been limited because of the lack of this agreement, due to the confidential content of training. Of course, sixthly, it is not binding in terms of the necessity of the exchange of confidential data but only creates a prerequisite and guarantees that standards and certain procedures will be respected in the case of data exchange. So, we put this Army of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in one higher context of relations with many countries of the world. You know, by signing with the United States, you're opening up a wide range of countries that couldn't come with us before that agreement to sign similar agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8756	You must want a replica, Mr. Pavicevic? I don't see the basis of the replica. No, you can't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8757	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8758	According to the Rules of Procedure? Let's see.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8759	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Mr. Gasic, the Honorable Guests, the Honorable Guests, if you do not now give me the right to the replica of Mr. Arsenovic, I believe you will violate Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that the MP has the right to react when a minister defending a bill misreads him. I think Mr. Gasic was misreading me right now, reading this text. I would now like to respond to Mr. Gasic and, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, Mr. Arsenovic, I am right. Do you allow me to keep talking? Here, then, I will tell you the Minister of Honor – Mr Arsenović has given me his word. You, Mr. Gasic, have now responded to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8760	No, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8761	... The first ten points of our joint single search, but here I am asking you – what about the 11th point – the bill confirming the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8762	Mr. Pavicevic, please. I turned you off, Mr. Pavicevic. I won't allow it. My only next measure is to give a warning, and I won't. I wouldn't want to, actually. If you force me, then I'll have to. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. You tried to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but don't cross the line. I'm going to tell you that with this same Article 104 you called upon, not to quote it and not to read it, but who knows which way in this assembly, you should know, in addition to all the rights provided for in attitudes 1 and 2, the last position stands where it says that the chairman is deciding on the right to a replica. That's the point, please, and you cannot advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure on that basis. However, even so, I've given you advertising, your right is yours, so I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and your right is only to declare that in the day of voting we vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You plead. Do you want to, yes or no?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8763	That's necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8764	It's necessary. All right, you want to. Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Milosavljevic has the word. Just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8765	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and distinguished guests, respected fellow MPs, in the framework of this joint search, would refer primarily to the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organization for Education, Science and Culture of the United Nations in relation to the establishment of a water centre, for sustainable development and adaptation of climate change as a second category centre under the UNESCO-sponsored auspices. Climate change is the natural phenomenon of the planet and its cosmic environment. The planet and its cosmic environment are a living ambience defined by continuous physical changes and processes, which are still slightly reliable, but these processes are obvious. The first man in the world to scientifically explain the nature of climate change is Serbian scientist Milutin Milankovic. Milankovic primarily explained during the first half of the 20th century that climate change is a natural process of the planet and its environment and that it has a cyclical character. Simplified, Milankovic explained that climate change is part of the earth's nature and that it comes in a cyclical time period. Later, concrete experimental research confirmed Milankovic's claims, and her theory became the basic theory of climate change science. In modern times, however, climate change has become one of the largest areas for possible manipulations. This gives the impression that climate change is a very powerful political tool in the relations between developed and undeveloped countries. On the pretext that climate change is the consequence of human mistakes, mandatory rules so-called "the world". The salvation of the planet. This accepted thesis is unfortunately very often part of the interest of some developed countries, and multinational companies are unquestionably earning huge profits. How do they do that? The danger of climate change today has a part in tax burdens that affect the price formation of almost all products, starting with gasoline at gas stations, to the price of food at the markets. These are huge budget revenues that follow a whole spectrum of their legislative regulations, more specifically new legal constraints that, in the absence of traditional ideology, become new ideology. The price, of course, of course, is paid by an ordinary man. A global agreement from Kyoto in the mid-1990s on climate change control has created a global ideology on the need to control toxic gases, considered one of the largest planetary pollutants. It is thus justified that climate change causes human activity, in other words industry and agricultural production. Each country has a quota of toxic gases, unfortunately. This did not mean reducing toxic gases, but only this became a new hidden form of global trade, so that developed countries have the right to meet their quota, not by reducing toxic gases, but by buying surplus quotas from undeveloped countries that neither have developed industries, nor agriculture, nor emit toxic gases to an extent harmful to the environment. It simply, unfortunately, became a serious business for private companies. At the same time, we are witnessing the fact that countries, the largest emitters of toxic gases, are not signatories to the Kyoto Agreement. Climate change was first used in this context in the 1970s when the West faced the first modern economic crisis. It was then claimed that human behavior and uncontrolled economic development led to global cooling, i.e. to threaten the Earth with a new ice age. Thirty years later, under the conditions of a new economic crisis, with the same arguments, global warming is claimed to occur. The main scientific source of modern global warming theory was the University of Norich's team in England. However, it was discovered that the team provided suspicious information and that its theory of feeding political elites was based on untruths. In addition, people's favorite instrument of fear is climate change and stories of ice melting on the North Pole. However, there is now more to the North Pole than ever. The real problem of modern life is, of course, silenced. The real problem is the problems of dirty technology and the pollution of the micro-environmental environment. As Milankovic explained, and later experimentally confirmed research, climate change is part of nature and human activity cannot globally endanger nature. The Earth of the Sun gets so much energy a day that it's almost impossible to threaten the planet, and only 7% of the Earth is inhabited, but local micro environments can be threatened by uncontrollably developing and using dirty technologies and irresponsible human behavior towards their environment. The problem, therefore, is in the protection of controlled environments, in the planning of sustainable and natural resources in line with economic development, notably the removal of dirty technologies and the development of modern technological solutions. Starting from all of this, I think it is very important that it is at the global level, and that by the UNENESCO organisation, a Centre for Water, Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment, and with us will be established at a relevant scientific institution such as the "Jaroslav Černi" Institute, which is also a great recognition of our science. Just like this, a scientific and competent way of dealing with micro-climate changes, expected natural disasters in the function of protecting the population, will contribute to reducing unpredictable phenomena and their catastrophic effects. Serbia with its fresh experience with elemental disasters should certainly have a centre like this. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8766	Thank you, Mr. Milosavlovich. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8767	Dear President, ministers, guests, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to make a few remarks about the participation of Serbian military members in the EU military operation in the Central African Republic and to highlight one broader importance that this operation has for the European aspirations of Serbia, which we seem to have all neglected together. In fact, when we look at Chapter 31 relating to the coordination of our policy with common, foreign, defence and security policy, then we see that the participation of our soldiers in EU missions is crucial to assessing our progress. In a report on Serbia's progress in the 2013 European integration process, the European Commission said preparations in the area of common security and defence policies are well on track and stressed Serbia's commitment to participating in EU crisis management operations. So we can expect in the next period that each of our participation in EU missions will be a key element for assessing our progress in Chapter 31. When, Mr. Minister, you were recently in this home, I was well-intentioned to consider the possibility of increasing the participation of our army members in the EU's missions, given Serbia's expected necessary progress in Chapter 31. That's when you told me that I needed to know that the EU mission is being financed itself. I see that this problem has now been overcome, which I am very pleased with, and that the EU itself will bear the costs of equipping the medically necessary technical resources of our mission. Furthermore, in order to understand the importance of the mission's participation in the EU, two more information needs to be taken into account. I do not dispute that this mission belongs to high-risk missions, given that in the north of the Central African Republic, the Muslim state of North Ubangi has declared that the Nigerian jihadist terrorist formation Boko Haram will respond to the alleged cross war that the EU is waging against the Muslim population in the Central African Republic, but also in view of the composition of our staff, I think it will be at minimal risk. After all, every mission when sent to a crisis area carries certain risks. But what I want to remind you are the following two elements. The Ministry of Defence, I assume, has known you, concluded the Administrative Treaty on 13 December 2013 with the European Defence Agency, which conducts military research for EU needs and plans development. This co-operation is of particular importance to European aspirations. Serbia is being led into the context of the missions we are talking about. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are considering, as far as I know, the possibility of participation in the concept of EU combat groups. Let me get this straight. If I'm not mistaken, in mid-2010 it was an unofficial initiative to form a Western Balkan combat unit in which soldiers from Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, BiH and Croatia would be part of the EU military element and would join EU missions. I think that idea should be innovated, it's maximum support and work to form this battle group. Besides, I'd like to quote General Henri Bantez. Several years ago, he made a statement as chairman of the EU military committee, which is the EU's main military body. Otherwise, the body is made up of chiefs of staff from EU member states and provides recommendations from a military domain in the Council of Europe and oversees EU military operations. General Banteza says the EU would appreciate very much if Serbia were involved in EU peacekeeping operations. It's turned on and we need as much as we can get involved. Serbia could, the general said, make a direct contribution to participation in our battle groups for a quick response. We are just talking about these battle groups that could then appear, or the Western Balkans battle group, to appear on a peacekeeping mission. The more you cooperate, the closer you will get to your natural European family, says General Bantez. Otherwise, these fighting groups that are being talked about have reached full operational capacity in 2007, but so far have not been used, and can only be used in emergencies, such as natural humanitarian disasters. The participating countries of these combat groups do not have to be members of the Union, such as Norway, Turkey, Ukraine, Macedonia, Croatia, if I am not mistaken, was, but she is now a member of the Union, participating in individual combat groups. Each group is the size of these battalions, and within 15 days, up to 6,000 miles [6,000 km] from Brussels can be sent. I would like to say that I fully support and encourage the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to advance, intensify co-operation with the EU on this plan, because what awaits us in the coming period is certainly a very important alignment of Chapter 31 and the measurement of our progress. Besides, participation in these missions can create a maneuvering space for us to avoid geopolitical traps such as, say, monitoring EU policy on the Ukrainian crisis. So, on the other hand, we can take part in EU missions to relax everything that could be one of the more difficult circumstances in measuring our progress in achieving Chapter 31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8768	The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8769	Thank you, Mr. Dracun. The government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, is defined towards the European path, but what was brought in 2010 by the former government is no longer current and we Serbian Army soldiers do not want to send such a battle group. We want to participate in peace operations and keep our soldiers maximum protection. It is true that we, together on our way to the EU, are also following common security, because it is one of the conditions, but it is not an obligation to join the EU combat groups it forms, so that I can clarify in that part. So it's not an obligation to join combat groups and it's not at all current in Serbia's military right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8770	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8771	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers and guests, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will be very pleased to support all proposals of the law on the confirmation of agreements, acts, contracts on today's agenda. I propose to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that they accept the Bill on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, because we are under obligation, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 99, paragraph 4) to confirm international agreements. I can't say that this is just a formality, but a fulfillment of the international obligation of the Republic of Serbia as a member of the World Postal Union. State delegation, or authorised representatives, representing the views and interests of the Republic of Serbia, at 25. They adopted the Act to Congress of the Postal Federation: General Regulations of the World Postal Federation, World Postal Convention, Final Protocol of the World Postage Convention, Agreement on postal and financial services. The General Regulation applies to the arrangement of the operational work of the World Postal Federation and their body. The World Postal Convention and its Final Protocol contain common rules applicable in international postal traffic. The convention also contains provisions relating to written shipments and packages. The agreement on postal and financial services provides for provisions governing the provision of postal and financial services between the Member States of the World Postal Union which are signatories of this arrangement. All acts are binding on us as a Member State of the World Postal Union. In addition to all the advantages and arrangements and common rules on international postal traffic, I would particularly highlight arbitration proceedings in case the dispute has to be resolved by arbitration between Member States. Chapter 5, Article 153, e.g. point 8). If one or both parties in arbitration within three months of receiving the notice of initiation of arbitration do not appoint an arbitration officer or arbitration officer, the international bureau, if necessary, shall invite the member to appoint an arbitration officer, or appoint the same automatically. The International Bureau will not be involved in the decision-making process unless the parties so request together. Point 11). The decision of the arbitration or arbitration panel shall be taken by majority vote and delivered to the international bureau and to the parties within six months and from the date of publication of the notices for the initiation of arbitration. Point 13). The arbitration or arbitration decision shall be final or binding on both parties and shall not be subject to appeal. Otherwise, the parties to the arbitration are obliged to implement decisions without delay. The Member State shall be responsible for ensuring that an authorised operator implements an arbitration or arbitration decision. In this way, the right and protection of Member States and postal service users are guaranteed the right to universal postal service to all natural and legal persons on a single postal territory on equal terms. The adoption of this bill is not only an international obligation, but also an obligation to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia as members of the World Postal Union. In the voting day, I will support all proposals for the law on the approval of agreements, acts, contracts, decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8772	Thank you, Mrs. Lakovic. The word has a folk MP Gordana Topic. Here you go, Mrs. Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8773	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, honored guests, MPs, agreeing, negotiating or negotiating to draw roots from the age of the oldest human civilization, whether bilateral or multilateral multilateral agreements, is important to have a common interest in the agreed parties. Accordingly, in my address, I will say a little more about the Agreement on the Transport of Passengers and Things in International Road Traffic with SR Germany. As a state, we are open to co-operation with the whole world, to enable our citizens to travel safer, to bring different cultures closer, to facilitate business opportunities. The agreement with the SR Germany certainly created a legal framework for improving bilateral, trade and economic relations, establishing bilateral and transit transport of goods and passengers, as well as transport of things for third countries in line with the European regulatory and regulatory international transport forum, whose members are both members of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Germany. It is known that not only large goods are being trafficked between Serbia and Germany, but also passengers, which is due to our people who are there for temporary work, which is due to tourist visits. Just because of the high intensity of road traffic, it was necessary to amend the current 1964 agreement, which was last amended in 1976. For this reason, a common position and the interest of both countries is justified that it must be in line with modern European legislation, especially now that Serbia is on the path of Eurointegration. To our Eurointegration, I can freely say, with my integrity, political attitude and determination, a special contribution in all areas and sectors is given by our first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, which has also contributed to the open co-operation of EU member states, as well as other countries around the world with Serbia. In this context, I must especially point out Germany, which is an extremely important business partner to Serbia. Because of all this, the text of the agreement itself is very precise and clear and it defines all the necessary relations needed to regulate international road traffic. Thus, the agreement in the regime provides for direct, occasional and alternating transport. The agreement also regulated the issue of cabotage, which implies the transport of passengers from the place of departure to the place of destination on the territory of one side of the Contracting State cannot be carried out by buses registered on the territory of the other side of the Contracting Party, which would mean that buses registered in the Republic of Serbia authorised for international transport under the bilateral agreement of the Republic of Germany cannot provide money transport services on its territory. In addition to passenger transport, the agreement also refers to the transport of things, where the transport of things for commercial purposes, for which permission is required under an international agreement which is binding on all foreign Contracting Parties. It shall be issued as individual or time-limited, which shall be valid for 13 months. It's necessary for every freighter and tow truck. The specifics are determined by a mixed commission and it is mandatory to possess a cargo list, which in its form must correspond internationally to the usual form. I would like to point out that at the end of each calendar year, licence contingents are exchanged for the following year, if necessary during the current year, additional contingents are exchanged. For 2014, 300,200 German individual permits and 200 German annual licenses for carriers from the Republic of Serbia were exchanged with the German side. The agreement also provides for the protection of personal data, and the final and transitional provisions provide for measures in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the agreement, compliance with traffic and customs regulations, and the agreement itself is concluded indefinitely and each party party may cancel it by diplomatic means in writing. Finally, to say that the adoption of this agreement is to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the area of road traffic, and this is also the first bilateral agreement concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany after a long series of years. As I have already mentioned, it is the previous one, which is valid in 1964, and Germany is one of our most significant business partners. Nor are other agenda agreements less important, which show that Serbia is ready to co-operate and improve relations in all areas with all countries, which will also affect the development and reputation of our country in the world. The SPS MPs will therefore support these draft laws and agreements and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8774	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8775	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister and Associates of Ministers, Honored Citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organization for Education, Science and Culture of the United Nations, in connection with the establishment of the Centre for Water, for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment as the centre of category two, under the auspices of the UNESCO. The proposal was submitted by the Serbian government. Since today, and in recent months, we have heard so much, and have witnessed the catastrophic consequences of the floods, which, among other things, have been caused by climate change, the reckless and irresponsible behaviour of a man towards nature, I have decided today to present my exposure to the three important ecological resources owned by the town of Leskovac and the citizens of Leskovec, the city from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high home. There are two reasons for this decision, which, of course, is in line with the context of the agenda of today's session and consists of the following. Since the beginning of this session, we have heard the question from our opposition colleagues countless times – what have you done in these two years? I will try to present what we did in the town of Leskovac in two years after taking responsibility, of course, when these three ecological resources are at stake in the town of Leskovec. Secondly, I will try to draw attention to one fact that the environment is in fact a set of created and inherited values that, according to its economic, sociological, cultural, even political connotations, there is no similar phenomenon in some phenomenon, that is, there is no panda in some phenomenon or phenomenon in nature. So, the town of Leskovac with its 144 settlements and 145 thousand inhabitants who are inhabited on an area of 1025 km square have an ecological resource of invaluable importance and it is the accumulated lake Baria with a water factory in Gorina. The construction of this system lasted more than 25 years and in itself has a supply capacity with healthy drinking water of 800 litres per second, and the town of Leskovac, note, currently spends in the hottest days, summer days 300 liters per second. The fact is that the entire territory of the city is not yet covered by a water network, but in the coming years, the city will manage to supply the most remote local communities and households with healthy drinking water from this system. When the current government headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic took responsibility in November 2012, she found not a very great situation in connection with this ecological resource. The boundaries of the sanitary zone of protection and only treating it were not respected in any of the items, referring to the arrogant behaviour of fishermen, bathers, weekenders who, with neat building permits from the previous government, built their own weekend house on the shore of the lake. The big problem, too, is a large amount of classical packaging of medical waste, pesticide formulations that are being released down the Veternica River along villages from the territory of the town of Vranja, which ended up on the coast of Lake Baria from which the town of Leskovac drinks water. However, the biggest problem is that in front of the dams, and in total there are five, 20 years back, so they have not been cleaned at all, and all this has led to the current situation in relation to the lake and water quality, i.e. phytoplankton, being very reminded of the situation that took place several years ago in Uzic. What have we done? The mayor of Leskovac, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, and his professional team have taken several very important measures that will show their values in the coming period. The entry area of the sanitary zone of protection has been fenced, strict control of the movement in the lake zone has been introduced and thanks to the engagement and great visitation and love of Lake Cracvac village locals living near the lake, we have managed to clean up a large part of the plastic waste. In direct contact and agreement with the local self-government of the town of Vranja, further disposal of municipal waste in the flow of the river Veternica was prevented, and thus also in the lake. In the border villages, containers for the collection of waste are placed, as are the warning tables. Finally, from the budget fund, the city's environmental management of the town of Leskovec has been identified as means of purchasing additional equipment that will equip the public utility laboratory, thus fulfilling the conditions for water quality control to be carried out permanently according to all legislation. The other environmental resource I'm going to talk about today is certainly a central wastewater treatment facility. This project is worth four million euros and financed, which is being built in the town of Leskovac, in three stages: the water line, worth 10.4m euros, is funded by an EU delegation; the second phase of the mud line, financed by the former Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, and today's Ministry of Agriculture and Environment Protection of 5m euros; ultimately, the third phase of the ORIO programme of the Dutch Government, is aimed at expanding the sewage network into 24 populated cities that are gravitating around the facility itself for 82km. In December 2011, the mayor of Leskovec, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, at the request of the EU delegation on the project, presented a meeting in his cabinet, attended by all the actors mentioned. So, representatives of the EU delegation under the leadership of Ms Ivanka Todorova...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8776	Mr. Bogatinović, please, just get close to the subject. What agreement are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8777	The topic is absolutely delaying climate change. The town of Leskovac can serve as an example of every city in Serbia. Be patient, I'll bring the end soon. You'll see it's an absolute topic. So, representatives of the Serbian government headed by Minister Zoran Mihajlovic and representatives of the Dutch Embassy, the mayoral office of Leskovac as host. Although the engagement letter, as well as the following protocol, signed in 2010 and 2011, could not be talked about some seriousness, as the previous government with its negligentness and inaction led the EU delegation to show its clear intentions at the meeting to leave Leskovec and leave the project. What have we done? Mayor Goran Cvetanovic formed a professional team, a working group, and led by the head of the city's environmental management, we managed to get the main building permit for the first phase of the water line, funded by the EU delegation of 10.4m euros by October 2013. That caused a series of consequential reactions. A contract with the Ministry of Environmental Protection for an additional 347m dinar was signed shortly. Finally, in March 2014, a guest of the town of Leskovci, ladies and gentlemen... I'm talking about a project by a central wastewater treatment plant, which is more about climate change, if not one such project. Finally, as I said in March 2014, Leskovac visited Minister Zorana Mihajlovic's escort to the Netherlands and then signed a three-way contract of 7.9m euros, which will be financed by an 82km sewage network at 24 populated sites that are gravitating around the facility itself. Today, the central building is a real building, an impressive building in Leskovac, which, when completed in early 2016, will be processed, ladies and gentlemen, a total of six million cubic metres of waste water, which are poured into local rivers, in Morava and further water streams. Finally, the third important environmental resource to which the town of Leskovac can be praised, which can be an example of all other cities in Serbia, is the regional sanitary dump of Zeljkovac, which, apart from Leskovac, puts down seven local municipalities, solid municipal waste. Once again, after taking responsibility in 2012, we found one situation that, by not doing it, not by domestic behaviour, the carelessness of the strategic partner Paul Verner and Weber, who signed the contract with Leskovac in 2006, turned it into one, so to speak, an institution that Leskovac owed millions of euros to. This was because one political and thoughtless move by the former mayor, one decree, made the third item in each account, which is delivered to the user, to the burden of the budget, i.e. By depositing. Ladies and gentlemen, we've found a million euros in debt. What have we done? We've taken it upon ourselves to reprogram this debt for 24 months, but we've introduced control at the dump itself, in terms of control of the amount and morphological composition of the waste that's being deposited. One of the biggest shops we have conducted, which I am proud of, and in the organization of the city's environmental protection administration in Leskovac, a kind of action has been carried out to clean up wild dumps. Every week since September 2013, one wild dump is removed to this day. In this year we managed to remove 60 locations in total amounting to 30,000 cubic metres of waste. So, respected colleagues, I am convinced that these activities of the town of Leskovec will be able to fit into examples of good ecological practices and at least delay climate change for a moment, preserve resources and give sustainable development a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8778	Thank you, Mr. Vukasinovic. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, as the last registered speaker per list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8779	Thank you, Your Honor. I know it's late and we're all a little tired, but I'll make sure I'm as concise as possible. At first, I will express one reserve under one agreement, and here I agree with my colleague Risticevic. It is related to the proposal for a law to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, not that I have something against the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, far away, but simply I have against, as Mr Risticevic said, that citizens and all of us are paying for the irresponsibility of certain people who have arched state banks. I mean Agrobank, I mean, of course, Vojvodina Development Bank. Of course, it has to be managed somehow now, it has to be covered, unfortunately it's going to be paid by the citizens and it's not fair and it's really not right. But apparently someone was irresponsible enough to destroy the state in this way and simply lead all the citizens of Serbia and the country to ambition. So I'm really expressing my reservations under this agreement and I'm going to think this through, here's a few more minutes, if I'm going to support it. As far as the other agreements are concerned, in fact the law on confirming the agreement, I have to admit that I am very pleased that these agreements confirm a great trust that is growing in the Republic of Serbia itself. Serbia is undoubtedly, and all the countries in the region, and even if you want Croatia as a country that has kind of known as leader by yesterday, I am talking about the countries of the former Yugoslavia, in Croatia itself you have serious texts in their magazines, where Croatia acknowledges that Serbia is slowly taking over the primate, and I am very glad to see it. That's a good indication that this government is doing the right thing. Maybe it bothers someone. Indeed, some previous years have tried to make Serbia an economic cripple. Today, it seems to me exactly through these agreements, this great trust is being shown and this Serbian leadership is showing itself. However, we are the largest state of all the countries that have been decomposed by the former Yugoslavia, we deserve that place, ultimately both economically and economically and economically, and by the number of inhabitants we have to have that primate and certainly that's something that's good. I congratulate the Serbian government on that. These agreements, if we would, of course, analyse each individual, and there are really good agreements here and from this with Germany on road transport, both with Italy and with Switzerland, which has been made, and even this agreement that a colleague from SVM commented on the agreement with Hungary on social security, are really good agreements. I'll look back, Mr. Gasic, most of all, on what is related to our security and to these confidentiality-related agreements that we have signed with the shiny states, but of course, with this participation in military missions in the Central African Republic. In fact, Mr. Dracun was just talking about terrorism. It is a big problem because unfortunately in almost all the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and also with us, we have various terrorist cells, from the Wahhabi movement to what? There's a lot of that in Bish. We were witnesses the other day of an amazing action where those men who sent men to Syria were arrested. But not only are we the biggest culprits, one of the largest cells discovered was in Austria and that in Vienna. Of course there must be this regional co-operation. It is good that both Slovenia and Macedonia have a major problem with terrorism, we sign such agreements on data protection and secrecy, as well as with BiH. What I have to say is, the agreement with the United States is an extremely good agreement, and in that segment, our interests and their interests match. It's a good thing we defined it that way. However, terrorism is a great danger, but it seems to me that the greatest danger for every country in general, even for us, was this economic security that we didn't have at all. I think that's exactly what we're building ourselves with these agreements. Otherwise, I'm in favor of that theory that without a strong army, you don't even have a strong economy. The more the military industry develops, the more our military advances, the stronger our economy will certainly be. That's what all the forces in this world are about, the Russian Federation, the United States, Germany. It is in this segment that we are obliged to protect our companies, our companies from strategic importance in the most impoverished way. We can do a lot of things with these agreements right through the exchange of information. I am a major opponent of what has been done years ago, that our public companies are throwing out some of their actions and giving some of the private companies that are very discussionable are mostly from abroad. I'm especially a big opponent if it was done in the IT sector, including marketing, but it's mostly because it's very bad from a security point of view. We have extremely good companies that are state-owned, we have exceptional scientists, and I will commend your Military Technical Institute which is our best institution that exists in this country and that has fantastic technological innovations. I don't see any reason why our state-owned networking companies would take any private companies from abroad and not take the Military Technical Institute, or the Michael Pupin Institute, or the ETF? The money has to stay in the state. That's the point, not that anyone knows who's taking and pouring money out of our businesses. So I ask you through these agreements that we define that economic security is something that is most important to us. I have to commend our institutions, and lately it's been clearly seen in certain segments, they've been working to suppress the gray economy and on a lot of things. I would also like to commend these actions of the Tax Administration, but let's just say, the problem with this tax administration years ago was that you have four completely unintegrated systems. You do not have adequate data reception. It has to be centralized. It would be very good if one of our state-owned companies did. That's how we protect the state. I repeat, economic security is the most important thing. When someone destroys your finances, your economy, you lose your sovereignty. You can talk about terrorism, whatever you want, however, this is something that's the core and something that's most important. I like to send out a lot of competitions, among other things, regarding our service to VBA, VOA, BIA, I see they've begun to receive people who are highly qualified, primarily educated. That's what we've missed for years. In that segment I see that they work well and I believe that through these agreements and how they will make further progress. I have to look back on our participation in peace missions in the Central African Republic, it's nice and commendable. That's another in a series of evidence, trust in the Republic of Serbia, because we're getting more and more in and out of the way of old glory, because we've had even more in command in various peacekeeping missions from Iraq through Sinai, to many others. This is something that's really commendable. The only thing I'd like to do is, now we've been focusing on staff officers as far as I can see, and on sanity, and one day I'd like to say, our engineering or some other kind of generation, not in combat, somewhere where we can contribute both scientifically and in another segment, I'd like our army to be there, because it's useful both financially and internationally. So go ahead. I don't want there to be as many missions as possible, but since there's a hotspot, we should use it and our army should be everywhere. In any case, this set of agreements should be supported. This is something that is good, and I hope that in a few minutes, when this vote is confirmed and, of course, helps the Republic of Serbia and its institutions to continue on to this progress. I repeat, our goal is to make this country a leader in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8780	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. As last reported, the word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8781	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've been worthy today, don't worry, I won't be more than a minute. And it is also known that I, as an opposition MP, supported every time they were on the agenda of agreements, internationally, especially when it comes to the army of the Republic of Serbia and the police mission, there are also military and police forces in which we participate so that I will support this time. I will not speak in detail about them, because we know a lot of it, like all other international agreements, they are of great importance to all of us. This is where you've been talking about it all day, but I'd like to mention one more thing, which is extremely important. I am glad to hear from my colleague Drecun, when he said a while ago, that we should be more involved and take greater participation, of course, for such a thing we should also receive a call in EU military missions. This is something that, as a future EU member, I hope within five or six years, Serbia should, of course, take full responsibility along with other EU member states, security policy and each other, of course both external and all that awaits us in the next period. I'd like to mention one more thing. In addition to the importance of international agreements, it is extremely important that our government, such as this Government, is open to co-operation with the whole world and that it has results. We saw, without the existence of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, a man suspected of killing Luka Jovanovic on the Brank Bridge, Milicev, was delivered, deported to Serbia quickly, efficiently, only because the excellent relations of the state of Serbia and China were, i.e. relations between the two governments that have done it very effectively. We used to listen to the story of four pillars, we didn't have much of an effect, and now we see that Serbia can work, that it can be present everywhere, that it can be effective when it has one responsible government, one responsible Prime Minister, such as Mr. Vukic. Once again, I support all these agreements and I want to say, I hope we'll all be voting days, i.e. Tonight to vote, whether we are power or opposition, for that and, of course, work with these good examples of Serbia being present, respected on all continents, all meridians, and especially as a future EU member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8782	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to refer to this discussion that we have been having today and the fact that from 18 points of the agenda in the debate we have not heard anything and no one has talked about it, about the Agreement on the Cooperation of the Government of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro in the context of EU accession, we have not heard anything and talked about the Agreement on Trade between the Republic of Serbia and Tunisia, we have not been able to talk about whether these four agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information and practices that we have with the countries with which we have signed those agreements, whether it may be time to amend and supplement our law on the secrecy of data, because it contains some provisions, as I have read, which are contrary to the provisions contained in these international agreements, and in the letter of this agreement, President, I would not have to speak out loudly, if you could a little...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8784	What do you say, I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8785	If you could ask the MPs for a little more attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8786	I'm asking the MPs for a little more attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8787	We heard here about the town of Leskovec and its efforts by Mayor Dr Cvetanovic to fight for environmental protection. I listened very carefully, and I would ask the MPs to respect me for the next few minutes, to exercise my right. Is the Law on the Secrecy of Information That This Assembly Should Be Changed? Whether it should be modernised, the question is raised by the adoption of all these agreements. What benefits are particularly economic, do we have an account on co-operation with Azerbaijan that we will achieve by signing the agreement? We couldn't hear who was responsible for the fact that the National Employment Service didn't plan the budget well and now it takes an extra 755 million dinars to pay off people who are in front of a pension, and they can't find a job. I also didn't get a concrete answer from the minister, the only one present, Mr. Gasic, about what he said in the presentation, I calculated 78 members of the mission in the Central African Republic, and the bill reads up to 75. I repeat, there was a discussion where a fellow MP used all his time just reading bill proposals, headlines, and he didn't make it to half. I think we're saying this one more time that we can't discuss in Parliament this many different things within one item of the agenda. I just want to repeat in the end that I hope this practice never happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8788	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8789	Thank you, Madam President. Dear guests, dear Minister Gasic, colleagues, I wanted to use my right in the end to try to sublime what we talked about today. I am grateful to my colleagues for this little patience that allows the opposition. The fact is that despite the previous examples that existed, and we heard from a respected colleague that there were 27 points of the agenda, that in no way frees this government of responsibility because you're elected because you're supposed to be better. Serbian citizens today wonder – if you are better, more professional, more successful, why are they not better after two and a half years? This is the basic question I have no answer to, as I did not get an answer to the question about the National Employment Service, I did not get an answer which means specifically specialised services of three million, current repairs and maintenance of 287 million, which means travel costs 108 million, etc. Minister, I don't expect you to have a detailed allocation of funds at the moment, but I would ask you, at the end of the day, at least try to ask your colleague, Vulin, to deliver it to us in writing, to see what this is about, as well as my question – is it true that all the purchases, all the furniture, all the air conditioning in the National Employment Service is done by one firm, one single, uninterrupted, in enormous amounts, which is allegedly close to the Socialist Movement and their president. I'm very interested in that. I'm also interested in the question that I asked you, so I asked you, which I'm sure you have an answer for, because I think you're one of the most important men in this government, and you're also a man, if you want to be an advanced, that when you say someone's driving a helicopter, you say what those people or persons are called, and right now. If you don't say it, I'll think you've made a lie. You know very well what it means in the public sphere to say something like that, not in question form, but categorically. I also believe that these agreements delivered to the Serbian Parliament show that this government has accepted all the good that was before, and as far as international co-operation and international military co-operation, that it has finally accepted and what is good about our military missions, that it has accepted all other good things concerning the postal union, etc. Also, I believe that these agreements delivered to the Serbian Parliament show that this government has accepted all the good that was before, and as regards international co-operation and international military co-operation, that it has finally accepted and what is good about our military missions, that it has accepted all other good things concerning the postal union, etc. But it also shows that this government is showing extremely poor results, not to say catastrophic in every field, and that all these parliamentary maneuvers that you do here every day, I don't mean in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8790	Ambassador, what do you mean by positive – we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8791	Well, maneuvers are done, they don't act like they're done...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8792	You mean military maneuvers?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8793	No, I said parliamentary, but you didn't hear. I don't know why you're interrupting my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8794	So I can assess whether you have offended someone in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8795	Well, there can't be a maneuver, here's the Secretary of Defense to tell you. He can confirm it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8796	As far as the army is concerned, yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8797	Yeah, that's right. Especially if they are parliamentary, there's just no offense. Because that's what we live every day during the session. What do parliamentary maneuvers consist of? In delivering a huge number of proposals, in getting them at the last minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8798	I'd like to ask you to speak on the subject. So, about the agenda. I'd really like to ask you, and there will be opportunities for general issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8799	Please don't interrupt me. I'd like the presidents, although you believe that my patience is limitless, I wish you'd acted that way when an esteemed colleague here presented a report on the mayor of Leskovec and his environmental activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8800	I wasn't here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8801	There's the answer. So I'm asking you to let me finish. So, we have continuous proposals that need to be made, we have things that are often and technical, we have things that are things that are things of continuity that need to be adopted in the Assembly, we have things that are unclear, we have flat-rate, we have numbers that no one has answers to, we have helicopters that someone flies on, and we don't know who. So, what's the face of this government? The face of this government is budget rebalance, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8802	Your Honor, if you do not give a speech under article 96 on the subject you started in the first part of the session, I will have to react. I'm not a predecessor, so I'll react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8803	Madam President, the promoter...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8804	When there's a topic -- government work, "an general," or globally when we talk about government work, you'll talk about all segments. Now you're talking about international agreements and other acts that we've had in common so far. Go ahead, go ahead, but on the subject, budget rebalance isn't a topic, it's gonna be a few weeks, days, it's not up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8805	Dear Madam President and Honorable Minister Gasic, when he comes from the proposing 18 points of the agenda, often unrelated or opposed, it is normal to explain the nature of the proposal. The nature of the proposal is so wide, and at the same time heterogeneous, that you can't tell me what the subject is, because if anyone can talk about ecologicality, I can talk about the government that supports this proposal and who suggested it. Don't stand up for what you're saying. I have four more minutes I'd like to use to point out that what was delivered today has things the opposition agrees with, there are things that it disagrees with. What we disagree on is what we asked the minister. Things that matter, and I knew exactly what the minister would say. Using the army on peacekeeping missions, he knew how to respond. He knew he was responding to an agreement on the exchange of security information. He knew he was answering things from his domain, and despite 16 people around him from the government, we didn't get an answer about the National Employment Service, for example. We didn't get an answer from the minister saying that some people were on a helicopter to the sea in Greece. Has a Serbian helicopter ever flown to Greece, Minister? Ever? Well, then tell us when, who was driving it? I don't understand that. As I do not understand the need for agreements that are both of the type character, which are repeated, which have already been adopted, to be adopted here, to be used now to give us a lecture here on how important our military co-operation is, how important it is to exchange intelligence data and how important we are the factor of stability that works with everyone, with everyone, and the next sentence goes – and we have heard about four pillars. Well, yes, this is now, as the distinguished colleague says, an alley of pillars. We've turned so far into a hundred pages that we can't see that people won't be able to. It won't work. I'm sure, after all, the Prime Minister will confirm when he returns from China. What we're sure gonna be able to do is admit to ourselves, you don't have to publicly, that the things you said about that data exchange and these military missions were wrong. And if you were on the right path now, no one would mind. But it's my pleasure to listen to my colleagues on TV talking about American imperial politics today talk about the benefits of data exchange. Minister, it's in collegiate with your policy and it shows a relapse of inconsistency and some tails from the past that keep appearing and trying to darken your open vision as you wish to see your way into the future. I know it; you seem to me among those who understand it, but among you are those who are not. That's why the problem is the compositions that are being read. The ingredients are a problem because they're written or by someone else, or someone who reads them, which they would say at school and in elementary and high school, they don't know how to convince it. If he can't convince by his words, he can see it, and the people recognize it. This concludes, exactly for ten minutes, with the satisfaction that the opposition had the opportunity to indicate how bad this government is doing, how bad this government is in the 20th century, and how it brings no advantage to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8806	Tell me, please, on what basis are you answering? All right, according to Article 96. First Zoran Babic, then Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8807	The Serbian Progressive Party will support all 18 proposed decision-affirmation laws. For SNS 18 points of the joint debate, there is no problem. I will remind those who are disgusted by such things, and this is a major problem that on May 5, 2010, this National Assembly sent 90 points of the agenda to the National Assembly. It was legitimate back then, and it was democratic, and that was the right thing to do. I was saying that on 29 February 2012, we received a 27-point reunion of the agenda and that then the government of the former regime sent us Dulic, "Nuba Invest", Olivera, a superman minister who could explain and knew all the points of the agenda even though they were such that Houdini couldn't bring them together either. According to the mathematics that modern science knows 18 is less than 27, 18 is less than 90 points of the agenda united and sent to the National Assembly, in front of the MPs on 5 May 2010. So much for this session being kind of tough and kind of different. So much so that this meeting is at least six times better than those 90 points or 40%, 50% better than those 27 points of the agenda sent to the National Assembly on February 29th 2012 when in fact there was only one topic on the agenda, only one important point, and this is the Treaty on Additional Loaning and Additional Borrowing of citizens of the Republic of Serbia so that all the marifettes, all the illicit shops in Galenica, would be covered. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all bill proposals. The Serbian Progressive Party, and I will enter the controversy with respected counterparts who have shown doubts about the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, a project to support the Deposit Insurance Agency. It is important in all of this to point out that the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund are in line with the Law on the acquisition of assets and liabilities of certain banks in order to preserve the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia to cover the losses incurred by the bad operations of the New Agrobank, the Development Bank a.d. Novi Sad and not give that money, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, to those who have done bad business, to those who have done bad business in the honorable word, the glegonically, may not be good for the National Assembly at the people's said "I come to you" received loans. Those who have received loans for the honorary word even for campaigning of political parties, we are now not giving money for such irresponsible business. For such irresponsible business, prosecutors play the role of Serbia's judicial system, but this way and this loan confirmation agreement, because we don't want those healthy loans, those credits that people who want to start production, who want to hire people in Serbia, who want to preserve companies that have been ruined in previous years by the state's bad relationship, so they can get those loans. Why would one businessman in Serbia pay the price and tax of irresponsible business and irresponsible loans that Vojvodina Development Bank was paying? Why would anyone who didn't do it pay? The better it is in Serbia or worse, people say in the elections. It's the only relevant relationship, and it's the only place where people are committed to one government and one policy, a policy of reform. That's what yesterday's election shows. That's what all the choices that have been made so far show. The better it is in this country, the fact that today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8808	Ambassador, please, the MPs insist...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8809	I'm just finishing up a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8810	Not to that, you have time, but to get back to the deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8811	I understand the anxiety of people who do not want to see reality in Serbia, and I understand those who would prefer to call on Ukrainians, and they also called on the Ukrainian script in Serbia, which is why they are nervous when it comes to the results of the government, the government that puts an end to all the black points of the past. One of these is one unfortunate event that took place in 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8812	Please, about the agreements. We're not in Ukraine, and we don't have that. Thank you. One sentence only, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8813	The black spot today has been decided on bringing in suspect in the 2008 assassination of Ranko Panic at a rally. It took six years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8814	Thank you, MP, we're really out of the subject. Please understand me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8815	All right. Thank you. In the end, I will only say once again that the SNS parliamentary group will support all 18 proposals for the agreement and I think it is in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8816	The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8817	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, in conclusion and final word first to address Mr. Djurisic. I agree with your proposal to amend the Code of Secret Information by harmonising with Directive 488. The EU has also significantly facilitated the position of the secret information authorities. Of course, that is what you said in line with the recommendations of Commissioner Sabic and I think that the Justice Ministry is already forming a working group to amend the Code of Secret Information, which will start working after EU screening in October. You didn't hear, you said you didn't hear a few answers. You didn't hear because neither you nor Mr. Stefanovic were in the O.R. You couldn't even hear it outside. We talked about the National Employment Service and about the need and the number of interested and I don't see what's going on here. Yes, at this point, a number of Serbian citizens are interested in obtaining a pension and thus providing certain means of life. I explained a little while ago when the National Employment Service was involved. There's no responsibility for budget planning. You do not know when we are passing a law on the completion of the restructuring of many businesses in Serbia how many people will appear to take the social programme and how many will gain the right to be at the bureau for a certain time. When it comes to the National Employment Service, I will only remind you that the previous Government, and especially this government, has made huge savings precisely through the Public Procurement Act, and the National Employment Service has thus called for the repair of cooling devices and air conditioning, so it is no wonder that one firm got it. If you have certain knowledge, Mr Stefanovic, you also have police authorities, investigative authorities who can deal with it if you suspect anything, but simply there is no other than cheap political points, the story does not exist and does not stand. You ask me who he is, and when and how he flew the helicopters of the Serbian Army, I will remind you of Porto Karas in Greece, and when most of the government members, the previous government, your government, the Serbian Army helicopters went to Greece for that, it is not disputed to win, it is written. Remember, you better know, I wasn't in politics back then, so it's hard for me to talk about it, the same ones who defended here and these 27 points when they were connected. But please support the set of these 18 laws. I believe they demonstrate the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic towards the EU's path to speeding up the process and EU accession. All laws are in favour and exclusively for the benefit of Serbian citizens, and even I call on SNS MPs who have said earlier that they will not cover the debts of the former regime, former some authorities in Vojvodina and those who have destroyed both Agro Bank and Vojvodina Development Bank, these funds are intended to protect the citizens of Serbia and that they may be compensated and leave to the police authorities, let the investigative authorities find out who and how they allow individuals in Serbia to get rich. So I also tell you this law when the Deposit Insurance Agency is solely in favour of the citizens of Serbia, that they will be compensated. In the end, I thank you all the State Secretarys and my associates today for the tremendous effort they've put together with me, so that we can explain all these laws to you and it's their credit because we've managed to bring you closer today from all these branches and give you the answers to all your questions. I promise that my associates and I will visit our mission in the Central African Republic, which runs under the auspices of the EU until New Year's Eve, and until 30 June 2015. We'll leave and be with our soldiers right now to show that we're standing side by side with them and that we'll always be there for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-08-0.u8818	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposals of the acts. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have conducted a joint single search on the agenda points from 8th to 25th of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I determine Monday, 8 September 2014, starting at 20.25 hours, as the day for voting on the 24th item of the agenda of this session. You don't have to attend. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 150 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. As we now need to decide on proposals for a law on the approval of international agreements (from 8 to 23rd points of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming a security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on security measures for the protection of classified military data, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary on social security, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – no MPs who have not voted from the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Tunisia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – no MPs who have not voted from the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I'm putting the bill on the bill to confirm the acts of the World Postal Federation, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and things in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – no MPs who have not voted from the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road transport, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – no MPs who have not voted from the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro in the context of accession to the European Union, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation for Education, Science and Culture (UNESKO) on the establishment of the Centre for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment as a Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council on the work of members of the family of members of diplomatic missions, consular offices and permanent missions with international organisations, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Original Convention (1975) on the establishment of a European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Forecasts, the Original Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, the Protocol amending the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time and the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, in the Cel. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on co-operation in the veterinary field, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – there is no one with abstention – no MPs who have not voted, of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (the Deposit Insurance Agency Support Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, v – four, abstention – one, seven of the 167 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on the application and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in a UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic and the European Union military operation in the Central African Republic in 2014, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted for one of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the draft decision in principle. I note that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become an amendment to point 2 submitted by MP Zoran Babic, given that it has been accepted by a representative of the proposings and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move on to a decision-making decision in general, I remind you that by amendment to point 2. The proposal for a decision, which has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision, provides for the decision to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following their publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the motion for a decision in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on the application and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in a UN peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic and the European Union military operation in the Central African Republic in 2014, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014 in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. This is what we've done today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
