ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, I would like to refer a question to the Ministry of Defense. During a recent visit to Stepa Stepanovic's Belgrade settlement, Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic said that the remaining hundreds of apartments will be realised by a project the Ministry of Defence completed with the Serbian Civilian Directorate, which is that they, both active members of the defence ministry and retired, receive a total of 932 apartments at the mentioned site of 4.616, as far as it is being built. So that's 21% of the total area of the built space. At that time, the minister said a step-by-step solution to the housing issue of members of the defence ministry, including a retired composition, and he voiced optimism that all unresolved issues of people working at the ministry would be resolved in the next two and a half to three years. Given that the division of apartments in the mentioned settlement Stepa Stepanovic is near the end, my question is whether there are plans in the Ministry of Defence based on a similar model, or whether there are other locations in the country for which there is the possibility of an agreement with the Ministry of Defence and the Directorate for Construction or with local self-government on joint co-operation? I'm asking this first of all because there are over 19,000 demands in the dispatch system today to resolve the housing issue. These are mostly inherited problems from the time of the collapse of the common state and the transformation of the military and the Ministry of Defence, but since this is an extremely significant issue that is interested in a large number of people who have submitted requests, but also members of their families, I am looking for an explanation and an answer to this issue. The second issue was also addressed to the defence minister, and concerns whether they are planning to go into future military exercises as was the joint military exercise "Ravanica", held on June 30th this year at the Pasuljanska Livada polygon near Ćupri. We know that this year, military exercises "Thunder 2014" were held, "Blue Answer", "Platin Wolf", and this combined exercise that I mentioned, "Ravanica", is extremely important, given that, according to the objectives that have been realized, such a military exercise has not been organised since 1989, so for 25 years. It is the largest exercise by members of the Serbian Army during this year involving 860 members of the Army, attended by members of the Russian Army and military air force. Since the guest day was attended by Defence Minister and Chief of General Staff of Serbia General Ljubisa Dikovic, who praised the participants of this military exercise, does the Ministry of Defence plan such military exercises in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8308	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8309	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the issue of providing textbooks in Albanian has been quite politicised lately, I will try to put this issue on a real basis through the question. When I say politicization, I think first of all of the statements made by the president of the coordination body, which is often incompetently pleading on these issues. His last statement to the public was that further work and resolving this problem would be possible after the national council elections have been announced. It is obvious that it is purely politicisation, because according to the Law on the provision of students under Article 20, it is clear who has competences to provide and issue textbooks – Ministry, Republic Educational Council, Training Institute, and that the National Council of Minority is competent to make proposals for language for minority textbooks or for textbooks of particular interest. It is thought of history and objects in the fields of culture, music, art, etc. But in all others, biology, chemistry, geography, foreign languages that are not yet provided, the direct competence of the Ministry and these institutions that I have listed, where there is no competence of the National Council. Why, then, did Minister Verbic refer to these statements during his visit to Bujanovac, that Kobajagi is waiting for new national councils to be formed, and it exists, it works and has nothing to do with when the new elections will be, but in most cases, it is the competence of direct ministries and all of these important state institutions in the field of education? For me, it was an attempt to justify the failures that have been present since 1991, and I was surprised when the prime minister made such a statement that in a month or less all these problems would be solved. Is it possible to solve this when these problems are present for almost a quarter of a century in that space, when even the Ministry has not dealt with these problems? It is that it started back four years ago, but it's going so slowly, it's probably gonna take this dynamic to wait 10, 15 years and a change of years to solve these problems first without talking about high school, where there's not a single textbook at the moment. That's why I don't think anyone's got anything to gain from hiding the problem. My basic question is – does the ministry have the willingness to fulfil legal obligations, nothing else, and according to schools in this area? If you take this problem seriously, then there's no need to politically cover up this problem, and a very serious, very sensitive problem. I ask the basic question – what prevented the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia from providing a Bucharest that should be free, which, in co-operation with the Albanian ministry more than three years ago, was provided to all procedures in Belgrade? The first was an argument that he couldn't because the tender was due to be announced, and it was more than three years ago. If there is no readiness and the Ministry of State to provide for free, which was originally provided by the Ministry of State, in this case by the home state, and by the Ministry of State where these students live and whose schools do not have the willingness to solve it, then it is indeed a serious problem. I ask an open question, if the minister can answer, if Prime Minister Vukic can answer, why didn't the children have an Albanian-language bouquet this year, free of charge, like all the children in all the other schools in the country?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8310	Time. You've been talking for six minutes. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8311	Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I will ask the Prime Minister Mr. Vukic and the Minister of Culture, Mr. Tasovac, and it is about the property of King Peter's Irregion on Oplenc. Today, it symbolically ends 100 years after King Petar and Karadjordjevic wrote his will, moving into World War I and in which he has made the entire property on Oplenc his legacy to the Serbian people and his descendants, that they may enjoy it, but that they cannot alienate it. For the sake of clarification, I think all fellow MPs here have been able to visit the beautiful White Church on Oplenz and in charge at all. However, few know that the arrival of a new government in 1945 has confiscated the entire property as the personal property of King Aleksandr Karadjordjevic. Unfortunately, even then, the communists did not know how to solve it, so Edward Cardellj, who led this famous agrarian reform, solved it by lighting land books in Topoli and Arangelovac in 1947 and handwritten it as the personal property of King Alexander and thus completely confiscated it. This injustice has not been corrected until this day. Although the responsibilities of King Peter and of the 1990s have renewed their work, property has not been returned to this day. It's about 146 ha of land. It's also those beautiful villas on Oplenc that all visitors could see. And today, unfortunately, we have a situation where these facilities are failing, that the employee of King Peter and there's no way to manage her economy, that the municipality of Topola, along with her indemnity, has restored about 12h of the vineyards, and that unlike some others in this room, she has not received a single dinar of subsidies from the state because she couldn't prove property over the land. I would therefore also like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture, because the Minister of Culture on the Board of Staff has representatives to initiate the adoption of a special law, so-called. Lex specialises in this parliament which will clearly define the return of property, because such a similar law was taken away in 1947. Only in this way, here is a hundred years from writing the will of King Peter I, we can thus correct this historical injustice, that this property may return, and that we can restore that beautiful hotel on Oplenco that is collapsing, which is currently like a spell in heaven or on earth, because today is still being conducted as a universal property. This is a very important issue, because this year we have marked 100 years since the start of the Great War, 100 years since the great victory of the Serb army led by then by Commander Regent, and later by King Alexander and Karadjordjevic. At this point on Oplenc, in the White Church crypt, six Serbian rulers, or kings, are resting, which Serbia, which Yugoslavia. I ask you most sincerely, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture, that a law like this appear before the MPs as soon as possible. My smallness along with the municipal defender in Topoli and the management of the company, Mr. Reljic, has drawn up a draft of the law. I'd like him to be in the process as soon as possible. The second issue concerns the Minister of Agriculture, where I would ask the Minister of Agriculture for a precise and clear time when the Anti-Court Protection Act will appear here before the MPs. Yesterday, when I spoke on the tide about the choice of economy minister, I also reminded the new economy minister, as well as all the MPs, that due to the lack of a clear anti-urban protection law, all agricultural producers in Serbia suffer. I think it's time for the National Assembly to pass a clear law that will specify the obligations to buy anti-building missiles, who pays the shooters who are on duty at the anti-urban stations and what are the obligations of the Emergency Sector and who manages the radar centres, from which the commands are given and when they're made effective on the anti-urban clouds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8312	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8313	Thank you, Your Honor. My first question today would be for you. During July and early August, I asked a few questions, using this parliamentary opportunity that we now have under Article 287. Let me get an answer, and let me not get an answer. Since it is 15 days in the Rules of Procedure for persons, or bodies to whom questions are being directed in the Assembly, to answer in writing, my question to you, who are in charge of implementing the Rules of Procedure, when will I get an answer? The questions I did not get an answer were asked to the Prime Minister, the defence minister and the VOA director, meaning, very important and responsible, I hope, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to waste time on all of us today and repeat these questions, so I'd like to ask you, in accordance with your powers and authority that you show here every day, use that authority and allow me to get an answer to the questions I asked more than a month ago. The second question I would ask today is a question to the Prime Minister. When we have adopted at the beginning of this term the Law on Government, amending and supplementing the Law, these amendments are foreseen that the Prime Minister may set up advice in an unlimited number and with undefined responsibilities, which will be defined by a decision on the establishment of a council. I am interested in getting an answer – how much advice has been established to date? In what areas have these counsel been established, and who are the people who are in these counsel? The law states that the members of the council were not in a working relationship in the government, and at that time it was spoken of, and in the light of the law, it was said that it would not have any additional costs per the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It would be interesting to see who these people are, what their professional engagement is, where they are hired and then follow government decisions and government policy in certain areas and see if they may be of any interest through work in the council on the work they do professionally. There are many areas where Serbia has problems and there is certain that there is a need to further engage professional, quality people who can help with their councils and the Prime Minister and the entire government, but this way, which was then established, the formation of a shadow government, can form a council that advises the prime minister and can advise him on what decisions to make, which are proposed to represent in the government, we have criticised. We think it's important that we get an answer and find out if those tips are formed, for which areas and who makes those tips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8314	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8315	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy. It may be a little pretentious that on the first day of the new minister, a committee question is being referred to, but we are witnessing that this government has broken that heart, body, and spirit, I would say, and I would show the citizens that every normal policy represents the approval of the future. In particular, this is about the company Krusik battery. Krusik batteries are a company located in Valjevo, which was privatised in May 2007 and is in fact the only producer of nickel cardio batteries in Southeast Europe. Eighty per cent are an export-oriented factory that sells its products to foreign customers by paying them in advance. The company supplies batteries to the Hungarian, former Yugoslavia, Romania, Spain, Mongolia, exports to the United States, Canada, and in Serbia supplies ZTP, EPS, GSP, police and military. It's the only producer and silver-Cink battery, which is produced by this company alone next to Russia. The privatisation of this company was completed in fact on the basis of false data from the owner, which was certified by the Mayor of Valjev. Workers showed and proved it was forgeries, sending many performances to the competent state authorities, but none of them answered. However, the Management Board of the Privatisation Agency has twice decided to cancel it, first of all on 18 September 2013, and again on 13 December 2013, and the Ministry of Business, or then Minister Mirovic, gives 15 days, 3 April 2014, to the owners to correct the error made and to pay the workers the debt. Otherwise, that privatisation will be annulled. We understand that the government formed and everything that happened after that, but the 15-day deadline expired a few months ago, and that memo, which I own, was annulled by the Privatisation Agency and decided to refer it to the Ministry of Economy. The decision awaits 115 employees in this company, who do not receive personal income, do not have health care. Since 2007, I note, it's a private company, and all the time, while the firm's campers, the workers are guarding that factory and it's ready to be launched immediately. There's a lot of orders coming in. There are advances offered, and among the orderlies there is Serbia's Army, but because of the sudden problem, this is all waiting. My question to the Minister of Industry is – what about the item “Cruik batteries” from Valjev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8316	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8317	Madam President, I'd like to ask a few questions to the Serbian government. The first question is addressed to the finance minister and Mr. Blagojevic – exactly how much was collected through the call for 1003 and how much total resources does Serbia have to solve the effects of the floods? Another thing I would like to ask the Minister of Energy and the Public Enterprise "Electro Network of Serbia", and about the power line in Vinca, which is not a power line, but a transmission power line that serves to export cheaper electricity. Several studies have shown that setting up this power line is extremely harmful to the health of the citizens of Vinci, so people who live there and people are thus exposed to easier malignancies. It was also established through the procedure that all decisions by the Serbian government and the JP "Electro Network of Serbia" are against the law and done in an unfair and illegal manner, in order to make at any cost a power line that goes above citizens' houses and above the primary school "Nikola Tesla" and kindergartens. These are the settlements of Radmilovac and Vinca. So these citizens blocked the city's dump a few months ago in order to attract public attention. The controlled media only showed a closed dump, not why it was blocked. It was found that in the population category between 20 and 30 years, there is a 55% higher risk of getting cancer, and due to exposure to these rays. In children living near this high voltage conductor, the risk of having a child tumor, leukemia and Hochkin's disease is five times greater, respected citizens. I speak here on behalf of a large group of citizens and settlements Radmilovac and Vinca who are asking to suspend the construction of this power line and move to the original route, as planned. It's a few hundred yards of movement. The "Electro Network of Serbia" and the government are absolutely ignoring the demands of the citizens of Vinca and demanding to continue this route. I have to say that so far, this has been an unrecorded case of full ignoring of regulations, a general urban plan, decisions by the authorities and everything else. I would ask that, unlike the previous 6-7 times, someone answer this question, since I have not received a single answer from the Serbian government, except for questions for Russian rescuers, and what Dr Stefanovic has answered. I would like to know when and who will be elected as Serbia's security coordinator, given the fact that Mr. Vukic has withdrawn from the post. When this person was elected, then we said – you choose the coordinator only because the question is Mr. Vukic. Now that he's decided not to co-ordinator, the state of Serbia has no security coordinator, we don't have state secretaries at the Ministry of Defence, we don't have state secretaries at the foreign ministry, we don't have ministerial assistants in either of these ministries. It's my question – when do you think these people should be put in those places? The Minister of Economy and Business and Labour Minister Mr. Vulin's question, how many people are employed on the basis of relief, under the name of the May 2014 employment? I almost said 1914. So how many people have you managed to hire on the basis of those notoriously announced employment reliefs, which the prime minister has carried out multiple times through public information funds? I'm very curious if you hired anyone like that? Also, I want to know how many apartments you've subsidized, as you said about 300 euros squares so far, and where will they be built and when? How many Mercedes buses have you made here a question for the Icarbus Department of Industry so far? I ask Mr. Vulin and the finance minister why they haven't given consent for months to open the Centre for Family Accommodation and adoption in Novi Sad, although there are all secured permits and everything done right? This would normally be the first such center in Vojvodina. So these are the things that the citizens asked me to bring out today and of course they will continue to know about your chronic incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8318	Thank you. Are there any other MPs who are calling, asking for a notice? No, I don't. I did not know that some of the MPs did not receive the answers provided for by the Rules of Procedure, so I would use my authority to urinate, or warn the ministers that they were obliged to provide you with answers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Dr. Ivan Bauer. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. Also, I would like to inform you that you have accepted Srdjan Smiljanic's resignation as a member of the Republic Election Commission in line with this I find that Srdjan Smiljanic has resigned as a member of the Republic Election Commission. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, which was called at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the ninth extraordinary session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the ninth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme — Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020); 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on civil servants; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Administration Act; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 10. Proposal for a law confirming a security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the security agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States concerning security measures for the protection of classified military data; 13. Proposal for a law on certification between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary on social security; 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Trade and Economic Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Tunisia; 15. Proposal for a law on the validation of acts of the World Postal Federation; 16. Proposal for a law on certification between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and things; 17. Proposal for a law on certification between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the transport of passengers and things in international road traffic; 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro in the context of accession to the European Union; 19. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Organisation for Education, Science and Culture (UNESKO) on the establishment of a Centre for Sustainable Development and Climate Change Adjustment as a Category 2 Centre under the auspices of UNESCO; 20. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Federal Council on the employment of members of the family of members of diplomatic missions, consular representations and permanent missions with international organisations; 21. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Original Convention (1975) establishing a European Centre for the Medium-term Weather Forecasts, the Original Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time, the Protocol amending the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Middle-term Forecasts of Time and the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time and the Convention establishing the European Centre for the Medium-term Forecasts of Time and the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Centre for Medium-term Forecasts; 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the veterinary field; 23. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 24. Proposal for a Decision on the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in a UN peace operation in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA) and a European Union military operation in the Central African Republic (EUFOR RCA) in 2014. 25. Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the 2014 Decision amending and supplementing the financial plan of the National Employment Service. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union Programme Horizon 2020 – Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020); 2. Joint principled search point. 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on civil servants; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies; - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services; and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration; 3. Joint Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information; - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Security Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; - Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of the Council of the Republic of Serbia - Proposal for an Agreement on the Exchange of Security of Secret Information between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic of the Republic of Croatia, - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the Security Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Serbia, - Proposal for the Security Measures on the Security of Secret Military Information; - Proposal for the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Croatia on the Treaty on Social Security of Croatia, - Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on Social Security between the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Co-operation in Veterinary Cooperation; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement for a Project Support of the Deposit Insurance Agency between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; - Proposal for a Decision on the Use and Participation of Members of the Serbian Army in the Peace Operation of the UN in the Central African Republic, the EU military operation in the Central African Republic in 2014 and the Proposal for a Decision on the Making of Understanding on Amendments and Supplements to the National Employment Service's Financial Plan for 2014 from points 8 to 25 of the Agenda. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – nine abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 20 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I have also been invited by Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Belić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Zoran Lužanin, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Viktor Nedović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Milan Šuvakov, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Miodrag Popović, Expert consultant at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and Ljiljana Todorovic, Advocate at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Let's just wait for the minister to come. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint, principled, uniform search on proposals for the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to a relative number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the EU Horizon 2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020). Does the proposal representative Dr Srdjan Verbic, minister of education, science and technological development want a word? Here you go. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8319	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to be able to present to you, in short, yet important, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education. In the past few years, we have had many changes and additions in 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013, so we have another addition and this represents, in a certain way, the evolution of the Law on Higher Education and the improvement of our higher education system. What should be noted, first of all, before any debate on the law itself, is the fact that of all segments of our education system, the most qualitative segment is actually high education. Regardless of all the problems, our higher education is on average significantly better than education in countries in the environment. You can see that from the last Shanghai list, though, for only one university, but on other lists we can recognize more than one of our universities. We can be content with that segment. However, there are segments that we cannot be satisfied with, and that is certainly one of the reasons why amendments and additions of this law were necessary. So the motivation to change and supplement laws isn't just external. We are not just talking about harmonising with the European framework, but there is internal motivation, something that makes us change daily and improve the system. What the Bologna Declaration, in some ways, imposes on us, is largely exaggerated in public. The Bologna Declaration is one document that does not have two sides that only describes the need for uniform standards of education and seeks the possibility of mobility of the academic community of students, professors. The Bologna Declaration is essentially a good idea that we are able to interpret in an arbitraryly complicated way, especially in public. Speaking of these individual reasons, including internal motivation, why we should change the Law on Higher Education by a few. First, it finds that there are problems in the process of obtaining work and accreditation permits. There are objections from the Anti-Corruption Agency concerning the absence of time limits for the issue of certain authorisations or for certain appointments. Ensuring the public works of the facility is another reason why we need to change the law. Recognising foreign high-school papers is something we signed long ago through the Lisbon Declaration, but we never passed it through the law. I think there are simple ways that you've certainly seen in this bill that I'm going to talk about a little bit later. But there are more complicated ways that we still have left for the next law. It is very important to note that the adoption of this law will not end the business. The question is whether or not the job of improving higher education should ever be completed. The task force working on the draft of this law remains in session. So next week we're going to be dealing with all those proposals, those quality proposals and what our proposals are and they couldn't get into this bill, we're going to continue working on a new law, hopefully a whole new law that will come up by the end of 2015. If we were to specify two main things, two main changes in this law, the first would certainly be transparency, one word transparency, both the work of higher education institutions and the establishment of a doctoral dissertation register, the establishment of a teacher register, the establishment of a register in that technical sense. Of course, it was never a problem to make software for all that everyone could use, the problem was, of course, different motivations of participants in the education system to approach this job responsibly and therefore the deadlines for these registers to be established on a number of levels, both registers in higher education institutions and the ministry register that should unite all these databases. Another important thing, the other of these two, we consider the most important things, is the recognition of foreign higher education diplomas. There are three categories of diploma, or three categories of recognition. As for academic recognition, i.e. recognition for continuing education, there will continue to be a question of those higher education institutions where the candidate wants to continue. So no one can, except for that college or that school, say whether or not someone has qualifications to continue their education here. However, where there is no need for recognition to work through the university, it is recognition for employment needs, therefore, professional recognition and that is what the Ministry alone can do much more effectively. To this end, the establishment of the Enic-Naric Centre is envisaged for which we have foreseen seven jobs. People who know more foreign languages, who will undergo the necessary training for the rapid and effective recognition of foreign higher education documents, which will allow our returnees from abroad to get confirmation that their diploma here is valid and that they can hire or open their own company. The third category of recognition, which does not exist in this bill, concerns regulated professions. This is not possible to resolve these amendments and additions to the law, so we need a whole new law on regulated professions, which would also have to be introduced in due time to properly apply the solutions applied in that law in the Higher Education Act. Now, if these were the most important things, I would draw attention to some who may not be so large, but are certainly important, such as setting time limits in the process of accreditation, issuing and withdrawing permits for the work of higher education institutions. Logically, such new provisions in the law will surely withdraw changes in the law on educational inspection, which follows us as well. The moment we set the deadlines and change the way the inspection should approach, then we will also change the inspection law and we hope that through that law the inspection will act more preventively and less refer to the elimination of deficiencies and punishment. Quality of accreditation procedure in the study programmes of doctoral studies, which includes one member of the accreditation committee, i.e. abroad reviewer for doctoral studies programmes. Removing problems in the process of recognition by high school documents that were completely technical, this process can be much faster than it has been before. One of the reasons for these technical problems is the lack of an information system that would combine all the data we need, and such a one system would allow a much better channel of information exchange between higher education institutions and the Ministry of Educational Science and Technological Development. Removing certain risks of corruption in line with the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency, further, more precise regulation of the work and involvement of emeritus professors and researchers chosen from scientific knowledge, introducing the possibility of engaging associates outside the working relationship in accordance with the needs of higher education institutions, that is something we have seen so far as the need to appear in practice, but which has not been properly resolved through the Law on Higher Education, iconically, the removal of the current problems of students relating to the loss of status and the right to enrolment in the coming school year. This proposal to amend and supplement laws also opens the possibility of enrolling foreign students at our universities under the same conditions as our students, from the moment we join the EU, the moment the conditions are equalised is presented. Finally, I'd like to say a few words about what it's like to raise the quality of the work of higher education institutions here, this may have been a way of removing some shortcomings, and what is raising the quality of work may seem like a few very small things, but it could significantly raise the quality of work at higher education institutions. One of these things is to enable people with scientific titles who do not work at universities to participate in the design, i.e. as mentors to participate in the development of doctoral dissertation, the introduction of a foreign reviewer for the evaluation of doctoral studies, the availability of doctoral dissertations through databases and a central repository, which would be available to the entire academic public, and, finally, to regulate the collection of processing and use of data on the work of higher education institutions, teachers and students. So far, we've had a collection of data through the "shu" patterns that have been spent on, say, a lot of paper. Many of these data have either never been used adequately or there was no legal framework to be used at all. For the first time, we have a proposal on how to use these data, which is consistent with the Public Information Commissioner. Another important thing about data collection and processing is the firm determination of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development that all decisions it makes are based on empirical data, based on data rather than impressions and opinions. Because we believe that what can't be measured can't be fixed. And so before every next step we want to have as much insight as possible, and qualitatively and quantitatively, in what is characterized by the education system, in order to take the next step further, and, as promised, the next step further is the whole new law on higher education next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8320	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a national emissary, Ana Maria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8321	Thank you. Honored presidents, respected ministers, associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the Higher Education Act, which was adopted in 2005, for the original goal was to bring the Law into line with the priorities of the Bologna process. The law has been amended several times and amended, 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2013, as we have heard, in order to comply with the principles established in the framework of European integration. However, in the course of years of the law, problems such as the process of accreditation of higher education institutions, as we have heard earlier, in the public security of institutions, in the establishment of a single information system and in three areas that can be of great importance to national minorities, and these are problems in recognising foreign higher education diplomas, i.e. the IA, problems in completing studies under the relevant programmes and rules of studies, as well as the involvement of teachers and associates. It was necessary to bring this law into line with the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European region with the EU Directive on Avoiding Discrimination of Discrimination of Children, Workers and Migrants in the Republic of Serbia, with the Strategy for Development of Education in Serbia by 2020 and the Law on the Protection of Personality. We are familiar with the objectives of adopting this law to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education and we know and we are aware that much more should be complemented, amended or agreed and therefore we are pleased with the announcement by Mr Minister that he will soon join and draw up a new and comprehensive law on higher education. However, it is a great pleasure that the bill, which has been amended before us, complements certain points. Of these few points, some are of great importance to national minorities. One of these important points is the nostrifi-kacija or recognition of foreign higher education diplomas, which is also one of the aspirations, i.e. elements of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians programme. Before I speak a little bit more about the content of the law, I'd like to explain why the recognition of foreign higher education diplomas is so important to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. In June 2013, a survey was carried out under the auspices of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority Fund "Betling Gabor" and the Sekeresh Laslo Fund, which was attended by the duchy Hungarians who completed their studies in Hungary or in another country and have completed the process of recognising the higher education certificate or the recognition of a higher education diploma. Based on a total of 216 people, they were found to have completed studies at 20 different higher education institutions abroad, in 50 different directions. In 75% of cases, the nostrification process was completed in six months, which on average would not be a bad average. But if we look more closely, more than 30% should have waited for a degree to be approved for more than six months or more than a year. In 22 candidates, it was necessary to pass an additional exam, which is a very interesting problem because in some cases it is absolutely logical to expect an additional exam, such as the direction of geography, when additional tests are expected from the specificity of Serbia or the logo, when a methodology is to be passed in Serbian, but, in some cases, such as a food engineer, when two to six tests should be passed that are not specific to Serbia, then the question is whether it is objective or not? The question also arises how will these students master this additional material, how will they prepare the exams, or who will finance it? In some cases it may be justified to take the exams, but in some cases it does not. This also shows the lack of prior determination by various institutions, as was the case. As recognition of higher education foreign diplomas has been done so far in both state and private higher education institutions, it was also an example of a high school diploma being refused at the state university in Novi Sad, and it was approved at a state or private university in Belgrade, and this also proves the lack of the system so far. Therefore, we, MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, welcome and support the proposal of this law, to bring an independent institution i.e. The ENIC centre in which it will be able to recognise qualifications under the same conditions, which will be equated with the practice that already exists in the EU and its ENIC centres, in my free translation of the European network of information centres, i.e. at national academic information centres with the NARIC abbreviations. This is a major step towards the EU, at least as regards the recognition of higher education diplomas acquired abroad. Let's see a few more important members of this bill. In Article 3. The draft law adds provisions that prescribe the participation of one of the peers from abroad, i.e. an employee of a higher education or scientific institution from abroad, in the process of accreditation of the study programme of doctoral studies. On the one hand, we believe that this is good because it reduces corrupt risk, and on the other hand, I believe that it can improve the quality of higher education, i.e. doctoral dissertation by adding experts from abroad, and this can be extremely important in some cases when language or subject to teaching is one of the languages of national minorities, such as in the case of jungarology. I would also like to point out Article 26 of which new members are added after Article 97, which refers to the records, i.e. the database and the information system, i.e. the records. It is significant that this database, in addition to the data on higher education institutions, such as the legal status of a higher education institution in a higher education system, study programmes, etc. It should also contain personality data, more specifically student data, their parents, or maintenance workers, as well as employees to determine their identity, but which is also important educational, social, health status, and all with a view to improving the quality of higher education. According to these data, the necessary educational, social and health support can be determined later. I would like to mention that SVM will attach one amendment to this particular article of the 26th Law, and the proposal will be to add the student's native language to the student's identity, i.e. the data on which language the student attended elementary and secondary school. Currently, data on the identity of students contain only data on nationality, which we believe is a little more sensitive data and there is no obligation to make a statement, and we believe that the data on the language of the student and the language of attendance of the primary and secondary school would be an extremely important factor, as far as statistics are concerned, because it has a major impact on student performance and prevention can be organised, if necessary, additional educational support, for example, the additional teaching of the Serbian language as non-students who continue their studies in the non-student language. We also suggest that data on teachers and other employees be supplemented on which language they have completed primary, secondary and higher education, because we believe that this supplement is necessary in order to create as broad a basis for the application of Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed to take into account the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities in the employment of state bodies, public services, AP, local self-government units. In addition, the proposed addition of the law is necessary and in order to meet the obligations of the EU accession process, but I will discuss this in more detail the day I speak of the amendment. Next, I'd like to highlight the members of 40 and 41. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, relating to Articles 104 and 105 of the Law. We welcome the fact that the academic and professional recognition of higher education diplomas acquired abroad will be separated from the law's entry into force, depending on whether education or employment is to be continued. In particular, if the aim is to continue education or enroll a higher education degree, academic recognition of a foreign diploma is carried out and is carried out in an independent higher education institution that executes the evaluation of a foreign study programme, i.e. part of a study programme. In this case, the continuation of the study programme may also be conditional upon the compulsory acquisition of additional learning outcomes, which are these exams that I mentioned earlier, if there are fundamental differences between type and level of achievement, knowledge and skills and conditions for enrolment for a specific study programme. As I mentioned in the opening section, SVM MPs are pleased with the way in which the recognition of higher education documents for employment will be made in the future. We welcome the proposal to be educated by the Ministry by the ENIC/NARIC Centre within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, in which, within 90 days, we consider it extremely favourable, a solution to professional recognition will be issued on the basis of the implemented evaluation of the foreign study programme. It is also commendable that the evaluation of the study programmes will be done in the centre only once and after that all sides of the higher education documents from the same foreign study programme will automatically be approved, which will reduce the duration of the overall procedure over time. In the end, I would only like to commend the entire Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education for its drive for transparency. In fact, the members of the bill introduce changes precisely with a goal or which, as for the effect, will have an increase in transparency of higher education. Let me just give you a few examples. In accordance with Article 3. The bill, relating to Article 14, will now publish data on the accreditation of a higher education institution, more specifically on the fulfilment of the prescribed standards, which guarantees largely the objectivity and transparency of accreditation of higher education institutions and programmes. Article 26, which concerns Article 97 of the Law, which I have described in more detail on the records, adds that a higher education institution, other than earlier data, should keep records of recognised foreign higher education documents. The academic accreditation process will become more objective and transparent, and since it will be seen exactly which directions the higher education institution has recognised or refused recognitions. Article 97v sets out details of records, more specifically which data should contain a higher education institution, but also of students, parents, maintenance staff and by comparing data with the objectives set out in the Higher Education Strategy by 2020, the competent authorities will be able to evaluate the quality of higher education and, where appropriate, set the necessary measures for further development of higher education or to organise support. Under Article 105b, the future body responsible for carrying out the proceedings of a foreign higher education document, regardless of whether it is professional or academic recognition, will be obliged to keep records and to keep documentation on the procedures implemented for the recognition of foreign higher education diplomas. I would just like to mention the public digital repositories of doctoral dissertations that the university is obliged to establish within six months of the day of entry into force of this law, and should contain all the doctoral dissertations that were published after the entry into force of this law and, if necessary, the possibility of a university, dissertations that were defended in earlier periods can be introduced into the digital repository. Finally, I would like to confirm that the SVM MPs in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8322	The word has Dr. Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8323	Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint principle and uniform review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the EU's Horizon 2020 Programme, the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. At the very beginning, I will say that in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support these bill proposals. Speaking of the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, it should be said that the existing Law on Education was adopted in 2005 after our country joined the Bologna process. After years of application and harmonisation in various years, many problems have been seen in operation, and I think this bill is certainly a major step forward. I will briefly try to explain some of the changes made to this bill. First, higher education institutions will appeal to the National Council for the Commission's decision on accreditation, and the Council will be able to refer the matter back to the Commission for review. Indeed, according to the proposed solutions, the Commission will decide on accreditation within 15 months of the submission of the applications. If it does not respect it, certainly one newspaper, the National Council will be able to disband a part of the Commission or even the whole Commission. It's a new decision. The paper is also that the accreditation of doctoral studies will have to be at least one member of the EU country. What may be the subject of thinking is that in some future period, it is necessary to consider that the accreditation committee is financed from a specific sub-account. That's what it's been so far. That's some topic for future time to think about. The university's amended law will not be responsible for recognising foreign diplomas, but will deal with the NARIC Centre at the Ministry of Education and Science in the coming period. Candidates will be recognised through the centre and study programmes will not be compared. Academic recognition for continuing education remains in the jurisdiction of the university and university, and it is certainly a newspaper that the deadlines will be much shorter in both procedures. We know how it's been so far and it's certainly positive. The process of recognition for continuing education must be completed for a maximum of 60 days from the receipt of the complete documentation and 90 days is the deadline for professional recognition of foreign higher education exams. I must also point out something here that may be a problem, and perhaps not, in professional recognition there will probably be problems, because the job cipher hasn't changed since 1994. Minister, that's not a question for you, it's in the domain of the Minister of Labour, so we'll probably get past that barrier. A new legal solution, besides that, should solve the problems that have arisen in practice when entering the last year of the study. By adopting a new law, students who have, I say, major students, less than 60 ESPB points and on the budget are self-financed who have less than 37 points, able to enter the last year of their studies. It has been specified that in the school 2014-2015 the transitional period should be with five deadlines tested. The amendments to the law also provide that students who started their basic studies under the old curricula have the right to complete them by the end of the school year 2014-2015, i.e. until the end of 2016-2017, as regards students in integrated studies and medical sciences. Students enrolled in master's studies must complete them by the end of 2015-2016 at the latest and students who have completed their master's studies can be enrolled in the third year of doctoral studies in the relevant area and are financed from the budget if they have achieved at least 48 ESPB points in the year 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 respectively. It is also prescribed for higher education institutions to make available to the public a doctoral dissertation before its publication and the obligation of the University to establish a public digital repository, which has not been a practice so far, I think it is a really good solution, where defence doctoral dissertation will be kept with appropriate documentation and, one more thing, to deliver copies to the ministry for the central repository. This ensures the availability of these documents to the public, with adequate copyright protection. It is also possible for a student foreign citizen to be tested through electronic communications, provided that the student's work is controlled and identified. I think you'll be more specific about what it's going to look like in the future. This is just a matter of principle, but I think we're literally going to have a precise way of doing it in the next period. The same is more precisely defined by the recognition of foreign higher education documents. The competent authority shall determine the level of fees for the cost of the recognition and exemption procedure, as well as other issues relating to the costs of the process of recognition of the foreign diploma and shall more precisely define the evaluation of the foreign study programme. I think that's another good decision. We know how it was in the previous period, that these recognition processes lasted a long time. We have precise deadlines here, and on the other hand, you know exactly how it's going to work and how it's going to work. It is also found, which is an important thing, because we are a country heading towards the EU and I think that by 2020 we will be a member of the EU, that foreign students from the EU will be able to enroll in higher education institutions in student status financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, of course, in Serbia's accession to the EU, as I said earlier. The amendment of the law also provides for the position of teachers, thus giving the teacher the right to be chosen to call the emeritus professor, in addition to participating in all forms of teaching at second and third-degree academic studies, as has been foreseen so far and as has been done so so far, will also be a mentor and a member of the commission in the process of drawing up and defending final papers, dissertation in these studies. The teacher gets the right to be a member of the commission to prepare a proposal for the selection of teachers and university associates and to participate in scientific and research work, given that this title, perhaps unknown to many, has been awarded to an extremely small number of regular teachers who have been particularly prominent in scientific and artistic work, have gained international reputation and have achieved results in providing teaching and scientific and artistic youth. When it comes to the Institute, I think that we have put this law into the right framework, it should be said that the proposed solution will contribute to the efficient use of institutes as a resource for raising the quality of doctoral studies, as well as improving relations, we need to be completely objective, the relations of colleagues at universities and institutes and facilitate the submission of joint projects and joint design of scientific works. What is important, many say, will this endanger the autonomy of the university? It should be said that harmonising university autonomy with the principle of openness towards the public and citizens will certainly not compromise the autonomy of the university itself, and higher education institutions themselves will have an obligation to provide public information regarding the level of tuition, standards for determining the level of tuition and decision on it. In Voting Day, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill. Just a few more words about the second bill from this principle and unique search. I will talk about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme. The EU's own policy in certain sectors is being implemented through multi-annual programmes establishing action plans for achieving defined objectives, sectoral policies of the European community itself. In line with the Thessaloniki agenda for Western Balkan countries approved by the EU Council on 20 June 2013, the programme and the community are open to participating countries in the stabilisation and accession process in line with the principles and conditions applicable to EU candidate countries. Here it is said that the Republic of Serbia, then the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, signed the 2004 Framework Agreement, which came into force in 2005. Not to be too long, to say that researchers from Serbia have achieved significant results in calls for project reporting. In short, according to statistics from June 2013, institutions from the Republic of Serbia reported 1635 proposals for projects, including 215 funded by the European Commission, with an agreed budget of 47.8m euros. We are not behind much here for countries that are also EU members, as far as this is concerned. Here I am the interest of the Republic of Serbia to participate in this Horizon 2020 programme, looking at expanding the possibility of joining the EU's research budget, which will improve research activity in the Republic of Serbia and significantly improve the conditions for further scientific work. You know it best. We certainly need even better conditions, even more projects. If we work hard, we'll take that uphill line. I would no longer like to owe, speaking on the proposal for a law on higher education and on this second draft law, certainly, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8324	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8325	Thank you. Article 128. Rules of Procedure. National MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly Hall. You'll agree that there are much more cards than MPs at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8326	You were heard by the service. He'll do his job. We have, say, an MP named Zivkovic who's sitting, and his card isn't there. Okay, it's from Mr. Pavicevic. I only told the departments to do their job. I ask all MPs to carry their cards with them when they leave the room. Thanks for the suggestion. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8327	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will begin to commend the work of the Assembly Committee on Education, which, with the help of the Ministry and other institutions effectively, quickly responded to the public's demands to discuss this important law, as you can see, already today. I hope that with the appropriate amendments and additions to this law, while accepting the good part of the amendment, there could be one very good law, which, with these explanations given in the meantime, could be made more fully through the new law. As for the interests of Albanians in the Presevo Valley, as well as Bosniaks in Sandzak, I think this issue of accreditation of universities and universities is also important, especially the issue of nostrification, as it is officially said here, recognition of foreign higher education documents. As far as accreditation is concerned, I think these legal solutions will finally put an end to a chaotic state. I know what's going on in Presevo, Bujanovac through the department, the establishment of higher education institutions from more developed parts of the state, which have been opening up, working for years, and in the meantime it turns out they're not accredited. It is illogical for me to work for years on a higher education facility, and the ministry, the state, allows students, parents who pay for these studies, because only when they're finished are they facing the fact that they can't work, because the correction they got through such unaccredited higher education institutions doesn't serve anything. I think this is inadmissible and that the state had instruments to prevent this phenomenon. I hope that these amendments and additions to the law will solve this more effectively, in the coming period, but the situation so far is really inadmissible to the damage of citizens, not only in Presevo, but there are such phenomena in all other parts of the state. The issue of nostrification, recognition of foreign diplomas from other countries is, in my opinion, even more sensitive than the problem of economic unemployment and high unemployment, because actually unemployment and unemployment are the result, in addition to other factors, of not solving this problem over a long period of time, since the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, actually prior to the beginning of the breakup of the former Yugoslavia. I mentioned here several times the misunderstanding, the conflict in the area of education on the route of Pristina – Belgrade, which is the result of tragic events. Since then, Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji have the issue unresolved. It's been reflected all along in all other areas of life. It reflects on the departure, the emptying of that space. Young people in the former state, shared at the time, were educated and there was no problem with someone from Presevo studying in Pristina, Skopje, Belgrade, Sarajevo. That wasn't the problem. Suddenly, sum came up with this situation that the diplomas in these centers were not valid and that for years, it hadn't been solved for decades. You have the interpretation of the Minister of Education then in 2002, which after 11 years solved the problem. Until then, there was no political readiness to get rid of it. With the help of the international community, in the context of resolving conflicts in the area, there was then a solution known to some, but then about this was said – since the University of Pristina is believed to be within Serbia, there is no need for nostrification, the only condition was that it should be certified by UNMIK seal. It's been 11 years with very difficult consequences to find, with political will, a practical solution. You know how it went. Following Kosovo's declaration of independence in 2008, the same problem arose again. That problem hasn't been solved yet. In Brussels, she tried to get rid of herself. An agreement has been reached. You have a regulation signed by former Prime Minister Cvetkovic, which has not been respected by higher education institutions for a long time. When I personally spoke to the directors of the recession in Belgrade, they said, sometime in December of last year, that they had not yet complied with their rules with the government's regulation or were not familiar with the regulation. Now imagine, since then, no other graduate from the Albanian language and literature group has been able to nostrify a degree in the Albanian language department in Belgrade, as the rule is not in line. When, meanwhile, the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutional nature of the agreement and this government's regulation came, and what has begun has been blocked. The University of Nis has started one... The diplomas were nostricated, but were suspended afterwards, no matter what this Constitutional Court decision was declared only in October. To date, not everyone reported can enter the process of recognising foreign diplomas, because there was uncertainty and not direction, so the Constitutional Court decision came and everything stopped. I asked the question earlier, the deadline is almost up, the Constitutional Court's decision will come into effect. What do we do next? How are we going to solve this problem of direct human beings, not to say minority rights? People have spent their time, tried so hard to finish college, and their high school papers aren't being admitted. This difficult period continues, which I mentioned, from 1991 to 2002 and in this time. This is political. There is no political readiness and political will to solve this problem. I welcome and have seen in the proposal that without the nostrification of the procedure, diplomas from Republika Srpska are recognised. That's just fine. I ask the question – why wouldn't it be for the whole of BiH? I ask the question – why is there no political readiness, regardless of political problems in relation to Kosovo? Why is the problem of our people, our citizens being put in a plane, like they're from other countries or from Mars? Why do they depend on international agreements that are ultimately not respected? This difficult situation is not seen at all by the families, the people who live here, and who must go outside for it. There's no solution. Question – why aren't they studying here? That's an important question. I studied in Belgrade. At least 700 Albanians from all parts of the former Yugoslavia studied at the time, but there was another atmosphere, another climate. In time, we know how events took place. It came to the fact that even those who studied, a small number during these wars, had to leave either Belgrade or Nis, or other centres where they studied, due to compensation, a security political situation. The fact is that before Yugoslavia fell apart quite a number, the largest number had studied in Pristina, and because of proximity, and because of language, and a number of other, let's say, cultural reasons. They would always choose Pristina to study. At the time, it was not a problem, and now to say it so lightly, why is it being studied in Pristina, why in Macedonia, why in Albania, and not in the country where they live. We're moving on again. What do we have in the meantime? Groups of the Faculty of Law and Economic Affairs in Medvedja which, in my opinion, is open at the time without consulting the legitimate representatives of Albanians, because it would be normal for these groups to open up in Presevo and Bujanovac where they end up in about 800 graduates, not in a far smaller municipality where in war conditions and after years we have passed from some 5500 Albanians, there are only 600 to 700 left and only eight high school students. Large costs have been invested for these higher education institutions in Medvedja. The bear itself and the Serbs in Medvedja would have been far more pleased if that money had been given to economic development. They had Leskovac very close and Nis is very close to them. As far as Serbs are concerned, there were no language barriers, but someone decided. It has decided from Belgrade, and without consideration and without debate on the ground, the results are that way. Meanwhile, a good solution has been made with the Faculty of Economics from Sutotica in Bujanovac, but it also studies about 150 Albanians. Now what? What about the others? What are we going to do with the vast majority studying in Pristina, Macedonia, Albania? A similar situation is likely, a good part of the Sandzak youth studies in BiH and Sarajevo, or other minorities, we have heard from Vojvodina in Hungary or another country. I think that it really needs to be more efficient and faster to solve this nostrification process, and I welcome that this employment problem has been separated from further study. This is a good move to see if the three months will actually be enough, because so far people have waited and often haven't finished the job. They couldn't, I know a practice directly in Nis, dentistry for years couldn't nostrify. Someone couldn't have done it until after five years, and someone took it easy. It's about this autonomy that academic freedoms are also talking about. If fundamental human rights are threatened, it really doesn't make sense to talk about any autonomy. It would be order to see ways to solve these very sensitive problems more effectively. In the area, there are positive practices in the Western Balkans region, both offered to Belgrade and rejected so far, and this is an agreement between Albania and Macedonia on mutual recognition of higher education documents and which works well. Representatives of the Albanian government offered the Ministry of Education in Serbia ten years ago. That's when it was rejected. I don't know why. It's probably still happening between the two governments. I don't see why you don't get more serious about accessing those options. We want and enter the European community. The bill clarifies that, nevertheless, it is precisely due to the preparation of the harmonisation of higher education with the European area that this bill has also been made. I'm asking a question now, why aren't you moving on? Why is this new law more concrete, both with these changes and additions, not predicting this possibility of equivalence of higher education documents? That it is effectively heading towards this unique European space, in fact, that the Convention on Qualifications says that the study programmes and through the Bologna process are in line, but then I really don't see what so many administrative bureaucratic procedures would take to recognise a foreign diploma and that people, wherever they finished high studies, could work in Serbia, but also vice versa in any country in Europe. I think it's quite possible that these are modern trends, and there should be as little red tape as possible, as little problems as possible of this nature that have been over the past and that have been suffocating, distracting citizens from having these basic opportunities for normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8328	Thank you. The word is from MP Mirko Chikiriz, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO, the DHSS are very interested in this topic. There is not much to be said about the education system in Serbia. That's what the minister said, and I'm going to share my exposure in some three parts. It will concern the analysis of the situation, what this law regulates and what this law does not regulate, and what the minister himself has announced will regulate the new law on higher education. I fully agree with the assessment that when we talk about higher education and any other topics, we should not talk on the basis of some of our impressions, personal impressions, but on the basis of valid indicators and careful and serious analyses. The only thing that we can do for young generations now in Serbia is to provide a good education system and, above all, a good higher education system and to prepare for the competition that awaits them after the completion of the higher education institution. Something else, in the present state, the state of Serbia cannot provide them. If we can just give them that, then that system needs to be handled in the best way possible. The Bologna Declaration itself really aims to put students at the centre of the event. It seems to me that, not directly, but I said by criticising and finding the situation myself, announcing changes and agreeing entirely with the assessment that this is a process that is going on, that it's a marathon race, that we still haven't managed to get a student because of, and those facts that I'm going to present based on what I've prepared today in the discussion, we haven't put in the center of study yet. That's why we're not even in that old system anymore, and we're not entirely in what we're trying to do. In doing so, it should be said that there are universities and universities that have applied the Bologna Declaration in the right way and are working according to the Bologna standards and that, not only are there prestigious universities, and there is no difference between state and university with private ownership structure at all, but there are also exceptional recognitions of graduates who end up at these universities abroad and are extremely sought for occupations. However, what really surprised me at the beginning, in preparing for this school year's enrolment, is the ministry's statement that students should carefully take care of whether the university they are enrolling has accreditation. It is also the best picture, an assessment of the situation in which our society is located, because we do not forget that up until just a few years ago we had universities that worked without being accredited, nor did their study programmes receive adequate recognition, and then we had the situation that many students besides investing in their own effort, investment in financial resources and other types of support of the family, as a rule after a few years of study, came to the labour market and simply got information that the diploma was not valid and that their factical study was annulled. Some estimates and analyses say it was in one period at an annual level of between 30,000 and 35,000 students, whether or not I really don't know it, but that's the data I've been able to get to. Now it's not that kind of a situation, but the fact is, as far as the higher education system is concerned, everything is going on in that quad. On the one hand, the Ministry that primarily norms this area. On the other hand, we have the National High Education Council, the Accreditation Commission, which is very serious and, I think, in this part of which I was talking about the most important job and on the fourth hand, we have colleges. Bologna was an opportunity to break the practice of inefficient study, to put students in the center of the process, and somewhere it's really like that, and somewhere it's halfway, and somewhere it's just declarative. Because of this and because of the fact that the 2012 census showed that higher education people in Serbia have little in relation to developed countries of Europe and the world, that it is about 7%, that in many countries it is multiplely higher, that the average age of the population is 41 years, that we are among the oldest in Europe and in the world, that after 5 October and the announced major democratic changes unfortunately, the process of brain draining has not been stopped, that there are colleges that still do not work on study programmes that meet quality, quality standards in relation to other universities and above all, the state has to intervene. I say not at all making a difference and not discriminating private colleges and private ownership structure, as a political party we are absolutely for a competition at all levels, but the fact is that many private colleges are chasing for the greater profits and the faster the assignment of diplomas and it goes to the expense of obvious quality. For example, we have a beautiful African country of Angola. It's filled with mineral wealth, gold, oil, whatever you want, but it's one of the poorer countries. For what? Simply because there are no personnel, there is no good education system, there are no people who will manage these resources and allow the population to live well. And that's why my personal interest in this topic is pretty high, because by investing in human resources and human resources, we know that it's not only getting that frame, it's getting society as a whole. As for the concrete changes offered in this proposal for amendments and amendments to the law, they are primarily affirmative and good and seem to be the result of a careful analysis of the current situation, but they solve only one part of the major part of the problem that is in our higher education system today. What we consider to be one of the most important qualities of these changes and additions, in addition to the transparency and availability of data on colleges, study programmes, doctoral dissertations, students, teachers, not only to the professional public, but to the general and political public, is primarily the recognition of diplomas from foreign universities, enabling, when we are a full member of the EU, and foreign citizens to study and even to apply for funding from budgets under the same conditions as our citizens and the possibility to continue education in our university, the possibility of getting a job with foreign diplomats in our country, and that is something that is entirely in the spirit of what we have invested 24 years of our political struggles, which is European integration and our participation fully in the European community of the people and in this part of our social system. Also, one of the good news pages is to enable exams to be passed through video linkages of electronic means of communication after meeting certain conditions and that is something that is indeed a newspaper and a major revolutionary step in line with the requirement of time. It seems to me that he is a small colleague, the minister has not even touched on this topic concerning the agreement between the EU and our country, which is popularly called Horizon 2020, for which indeed our scientific research institutions, businesses and all other legal entities can compete for EU funds and are multi-annual projects with action plans for EU sectoral policies. These programmes are really an important political and financial instrument. They primarily concern research into technological development and visual activities. What's really important is to say that this budget is huge. It is 78.6 billion euros. It is one of the largest budgets for a particular area set by the European Commission. Our research institutes, organizations, businesses and legal faces competed for a total of 80 projects. They have received 30 projects and, in five years, a profit of eightm euros has been achieved, which is not negligible given that we are not a full member of the EU. What are the biggest problems in the functioning of the higher education system right now? It's an unequal system of funding, an unequal system of tuition, I know it's college autonomy, but it's really a big imbalance, from 30,000 to 250,000 dinars. Then most high school students from wealthy families are on the budget. Students are looking precisely for the reasons that I have presented and many others that until they really are at the heart of the event, to keep six test deadlines, although the strategy envisions a gradual reduction to five and four. Since all colleges do not fully apply what the Bologna Declaration requires, it may be necessary to consider keeping the six deadlines in line. It's an explosion of private colleges, but it's thought that there's a lot of running for profit and that it's not working well and that it suffers quality. On the other hand, the private sector has also brought to education some new educational profiles and new opportunities compared to other universities. If we compare Serbia with America, the owner in America only builds a university building and his job ends there, while in Serbia it is quite different. We are still not fully moving forward with the European education system, which is, of course, our goal. Our many universities and many graduates and many experts in the world are highly esteemed, and if they decide to return to many problems, their knowledge and education is worth it here, but it's a much wider and much longer topic. You mentioned that a law will be passed setting out a national qualification framework and this is a multi-annual problem that many people point to, not just from the professional public, but from those who face this problem in practice. Then, now, it seems to me that the conditions for obtaining scholarships and loans are tightening. It takes more points to enroll in the coming years, reduce the test deadlines, and we do not seem to have done everything that would allow overworked students to be less burdened and that the actual test deadlines welcome them with an 80 or 90% passed exam. Reform of study programmes, textbooks and teaching content is needed. As for passing general professional or artistic graduations, it is believed that this should replace admission exams at universities, it is part of the opinion of the professional public. There's a big problem with quality control. It is primarily the work of the accreditation commission and it seems to me that they do not have enough time or enough personnel to do everything that needs to be done. As a result, many expert public assessments are that high school is partly in a chaotic state and there is no need to make any, everything depends on college to university, even at the same university, in the same department, according to the same subject two professors apply different standards, of course, and different criteria, but wandering in that part exists. We haven't made it possible yet, no matter what the initiative is accepted, that the Roma population and persons with disabilities are kind of seen through their fingers enrolment in studies, and we haven't made it possible, but that's not the issue of the Ministry of Education, it's a matter of government and many other activities, that the availability of education is greater, above all, poorer and those in the rural area. Therefore, the availability of double the availability of study to those living in Belgrade is five times higher for those whose parents are highly educated compared to other populations. The status is not regulated and the status of the absolvents is not uniform. After finishing listening to the last semester, I don't know what the logic is that students are paying tuition for the next year, and they're just taking exams, no more classes, and I think that's something, if I understand correctly, that needs to be corrected. An initiative has been taken to register Roma and people with disabilities without meeting formal conditions, and what happens after other years of study is an individual problem. The reduction of the test deadlines, it seems to me, is indeed something that is more difficult, regardless of what my personal opinion is that there should be a framework in the range of, say, four to six deadlines and that it should simply be left to the colleges. Why should we colleges, if they're willing to organize test deadlines in six deadlines, limit it to only four? It seems to me that in that section, it needs to be flexible, especially given the state that currently exists in colleges. We, Minister, have proposed some amendments in this section. In principle, for now you have our support, I think your intentions are good, I think you're thinking in a similar way to us, but only when a new law on higher education arrives, and when all those topics that I've been talking about are on the agenda, and the problems I've been pointing to, are we going to have a more serious discussion? I took this opportunity, not only to commend these proposed changes, but to point to other issues concerning higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8330	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nada Lazic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8331	I would like to look at one of the perhaps completely different angles regarding these amendments to the laws that are clearly trying to introduce a greater order. If we hadn't had this accreditation affair and so on, maybe we wouldn't be talking about it today, but it's good to move and change it anyway. What I'm interested in, in which direction do we go as a society, or what kind of personnel do we produce, and what do we want to achieve? From the great army of students we have what can these young people expect when they graduate from college and where can they get a job, or what is offered them in this society? I tried to get some information I could get to. Among other things, I came to the National Sustainable Development Strategy adopted in this country in 2008, where, as a vision of sustainable development of the Republic of Serbia by 2017, the Republic of Serbia will be an institutional and economically developed state, i.e. it wants to, with adequate infrastructure, be compatible with EU standards, with knowledge-based economy, I stress this, effectively used natural and created resources, greater efficiency and productivity, rich educated people, with a preserved environment, historical and cultural heritage, a country where there is a partnership of the public, private and civil sector and which provides equal opportunities for all citizens. Priorities in this strategy were key priorities, defined then, EU membership, as we can see, in this process we are progressing, but one of the priorities is the development and education of people, increasing employment, social inclusion, creating more jobs, attracting experts, improving the quality and adaptability of the workforce, increasing investment in human resources, why it is necessary to achieve, stressing these two items that I will point out, preventing the outflow of experts by creating better working conditions for their work and investing in the knowledge and skills of people through quality, efficient and practical application of education and continuous training of members of all social groups on the principles of equal opportunities. When you look at the state of education, I speak on the basis of the same strategy, Mr. Minister, if I am wrong in the data, I ask you that if there are any fresher data or better data, then it is said that – in the system of higher education in the Republic of Serbia, there is a relatively large number of young people who have studied or tried to study, but is a very small percentage of those who finish their studies within the deadline, which can be considered useful and acceptable to society, and this is considered to be 8 to 10% of those enrolled. The number of students repeating their first year of studies is close to 30%. Overall, the education system is unsustainable, is not efficient enough, does not cover all children and youth and does not have enough quality outcome at any level. The result is a low general level of education. When compared with the Regional Development Plan AP Vojvodina, which was given this year for the period from 2014 to 2020, it is said that there is an education in Vojvodina at 40 high school institutions, state and private, in school 2012/13. About 53,000 students were enrolled in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, of which just over 12,000 were enrolled in Vojvodina. What particularly intrigued me and what I think is worth considering, based on the total number of students in school 2010/11. The year is seen as the most represented institutions studying social sciences, business and law with 41.5% of total students. At the technical schools and universities in the field of construction, there are about 13% of students, 10% of students from the university who train students to work in education and 10% in other universities. I come from the area, from the sphere of environmental protection. We are about to open Chapter 27. At this point, I am wondering, and I am free to say that we do not have people ready to negotiate in this area, relations to engage in a large number of activities that will await us, or that we are about to do in this field. So I ask and simply appeal to agree practically, the economy sector, the education sector, the labour sector, and to try to find the right measure of what we need, what we expect in the accession process, especially in this area of environmental protection, energy, the area of infrastructure building, because I think we will experience the same fate as in the field of health. It was these days that we adopted amendments to the law in which we made it possible to speed up the process of getting specialization, precisely because of the age structure of doctors. We have a similar situation in engineering, in certain areas, especially when it comes to hydrotechnics or other areas. Now, back then, we had this accident to be hit by floods and personnel, or people experts, who explained to us what was going on, what was going on, were all time engineers. Some already retired. I just think that some kind of education structure would have to take account, not leave everything exclusively to higher education institutions to create programs, that is, produce the kind of personnel that have no place to work afterwards, and we, on the other hand, have a deficit in some areas. One more thing, I was asked simply by my young colleagues from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina to draw attention, although I did not, I heard from my colleagues earlier, that your jurisdiction is a problem of non-existent occupations, because many students today are finishing colleges with diplomas of non-existent occupations. This amendment of the law has not been considered and I see that it is the portfolio of the Ministry of Labour, but I think it is important to coordinate the cipher of interest with existing academic and professional titles, because it leads some students, when they finish some of the colleges, to have an interest that they don't know what they're going to do. I'm going to give an example, and I myself was confused with the titles – master music artist, specialist oral hygienist, media designer in education, professor of applied mathematics, and I was particularly surprised – Serbian and Germanist, as an occupation. People simply with such occupations, or a degree, cannot compete and get a job. Well, I think we should just agree on that, too. I repeat, I expect that the resources of the economy, education and work are working together and that we get a much better picture than we have now, because we're going to have an army of unemployed managers and other professions, with which we simply won't know what we're going to do. Another curiosity, as an example. It has now become a practice that in all companies and public-communal and medical institutions you have a PR. They're mostly young people, or at all people who are managers, or something like that, they're done, and then they're interpreting what it's about, say, water supply problems. Back then, we've witnessed a lot of talk on the subject. Or worse, to get the doctor to convince the PR that he's going to talk to the public. In some situations it just gets absurd. Another practice that has appeared, and I have to look back at it, in public-communal actions, is that for years, you've had, for example, public-communal companies, as I can say, a baker, a butcher, a pharmacist, you have all kinds of professions, and you just don't have an engineering profession, and I think it's something that's a general social problem, that it can't be a geographer, a historian and so on, some of the interests of an example that existed at the head of a water line in Novi Sad, because it creates long-term problems and that I'm not spreading now because it's not a place or time, but I just felt the need to say something like that. In voting day, we will decide depending on the adoption of our two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8332	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word has been issued by MP Dr Branko Djurovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8333	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable Members of Parliament, at the exposé of the Prime Minister in this assembly, in April of this year, has been told that we are being followed by a complete reorganisation of the educational system. The top priority will be education that should be the basis for building a joint house. The basic reform law was passed along with the famous Bologna in 2005. Changes and additions, as the current minister said, were quite common in 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013 and now in 2014. There were always some current reasons for changes and additions. What encourages this change, or these changes and additions, is the introduction of a reorganised Higher Education Act, which is to be passed, as the minister said, by the end of next year, or 2015. Of these changes and additions, I'd like to set aside maybe three of the largest. The first, perhaps the biggest, is, as the minister stated, transparency. The transparency of university work and what's important, the results of university work, and that should be one of the evaluation and raising of work in the field of higher education. Second major change, it's recognition of foreign higher education diplomas. This process is speeding up and at the same time facilitating the return of our people who, after this accelerated process of recognising a higher education institution, will be able, in one segment, to come to work more easily. And the third one per me, the big reason, the third big change and the addition, is something that, through the draft of this law, may not be explicitly said, but that is to complete the definition of our national qualification framework. In other words, the introduction of masters of professional studies, and with this completion of the framework of national qualifications, we are slowly coming into a syncorium, positive with the European space of higher education. A little later I would say about the master of professional studies because there is one dissinhornia, but then later on. Smaller things or less changes, but also how significant they are in line with the recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency. These are transparency, in the narrowest sense of the word, related to the work of higher education institutions in the form of permanent and public availability of the scholarship structure and all financial flows. Permanent availability of the accreditation report. A time-demand or time-limitation of accreditation that cannot be longer than 12 months. As regards raising the quality of teaching in higher education institutions, this should be mentioned, as the minister and previous speakers have said, as the introduction of a foreign reviewer who is either a teacher, or a scientist, or an artist from an external higher education institution or a scientific institute, who should be one member of the review, or one member of the Committee for Defence of Doctoral Dissertation. At the same time as the doctoral dissertation, we should mention something which is also absolutely good, which is the public and availability of these doctoral dissertations in the form of a central repository that will be under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Science, where there will be a written section of each doctoral dissertation, and in the course of this brief part of the doctoral dissertation, other meta-analysis related to the doctoral dissertation itself will be given. Who's a mentor, who's a board member, when the work is defended, etc. So this doctoral dissertation will be fully and clearly defined and available to the general public. Also, another quality is related to the introduction of persons with scientific titles in the defense of doctoral dissertation. We now have two laws relating to scientific calling. The first is the Law on Higher Education, which knows three degrees: a teacher professor, an extraordinary professor and a regular professor. The second law is the Law on scientific and research work, where we have two gradities: senior scientific associate and scientific advisor. When teachers from the university, whether state or private, apply for a particular scientific fund, there's a so-called Automatic equivalence. What does that mean? That means a regular professor gets a rank of scientific advisor. An extraordinary professor gets the rank of senior scientific associate. There's no other way around. The draft of this law gives this opportunity, that practically scientists, with one of these two titles, participate actively in the design and defense of doctoral dissertations. What should also introduce order in the area of higher education is a practical modification of Article 42. The law on higher education. This clearly states in paragraph 5 what are the conditions for the termination of accreditation and, in the course of the legislative process, the legislator says: “When the conditions laid down in Article 5 are met, Article 42. The Law on Higher Education, the following day the accreditation of the higher education institution is interrupted, and the Ministry of Education during the next three working days is obliged to withdraw the work license and to publish the termination of accreditation and the relevant higher education institution." What does that mean? With time limits like this, we're practically introducing order. What is the current situation in the area of higher education? We have institutions that are accredited, which are not accredited, we have institutions that are not accredited and have a work permit that has been obtained in a variety of ways. By adopting this law, we are practically introducing order in this sphere. We have regulation in the field of data collection, processing and use, and these are formerly known "SHV 20" patterns, where we practically didn't even know how to use all this data. We should get to know that now. Also, it is being introduced to call associates outside of working hours as co-workers of practitioners and famous clinical assistants, who should help in practical work with students. Current ongoing issues are also defined for the start of the next school year. This means extending the deadline for senior students and we have that lower threshold for enrollment of budget students to the next school year, which is 48 ESPB points. There's something I'd like to say about the recognition of foreign high school papers. Practically, this recognition opens and becomes active participants in Chapter 26, which speaks of education, culture, sport and youth. As part of this Chapter 26 and the screenings done, we are told that we are practically not in a positive synchronization with the Lisbon Convention, which was promoted in 1997, which we ratified in 2004. What does the 1997 Lisbon Convention say? He says the European space needs to be brought into line, as far as school diplomas are concerned, and in that segment of higher education papers. Our Law on the Foundations of System and Education has somewhat regulated school papers at the level of primary and secondary schools. But from ratification to today, in the area of higher education, we have done nothing. I should mention one item here. It's not the same recognition and nostration. It says here that we don't have a law on regulated professions. What are the regulated professions? It's medicine, dentistry, pharmacies, teaching college. Me as a medic, or some colleague of mine, a doctor of medicine, can't go through a process of recognition, he has to go through a process of nostrification. What does nostration mean? Nostration is practically one hard work, where practically through a particular profession, through a particular profession, abroad registers basic skills or practical knowledge of it and whether it fits here in our country of particular occupation. That's hard. It's not simple. We practically, with this recognition, that is, with these recognition processes, simplify the matter, determine the level and degree of higher education. As part of the recognition, there is a distinction between the so-called. academic and professional recognition. Academic recognition is carried out in higher education institutions, which are practically worth a study programme or part of a study programme based on their general act, so that such a candidate can continue his education in that particular higher education institution. During this evaluation, that's what a little bit is put on and neglects during these discussions, it's determined something that we treat as a fundamental difference. So, based on the general act, a higher education institution needs to say whether there is a fundamental difference between a specific foreign expert programme and our conditions for the practical verification of that expert programme or part of the expert programme. All this together simplifies things. Before this proposal, what kind of situation did we have? As for professional and academic recognition, these processes lasted long, because higher education institutions, whose "material" it was to solve, solved too long, and even when resolved, the cost of cost was not low. On the basis of the proposal for this law, the practical price of accreditation, i.e. the price of recognition of individual study programmes, shall be carried out by the Ministry of Education, i.e. the Minister himself. When we get the law on regulated professions, then we'll have these three entities - professional recognition, academic recognition, law on regulated professions. This should be one continent that will be incorporated into this law, a comprehensive law on higher education that should be passed by the end of next year. What I wanted to say about the third big thing, is to define the national qualification framework and bring it into line with the European space of higher education. In 2005/2006, when it came to the Higher Education Strategy by 2020, there was a dead letter on the paper of the Master of Professional Studies. They were not the conditions matured to implement it in practice. We now have an extorted variant in place. Practically, we are looking for the integration of our national qualification framework with a national framework or a supranational framework for the European higher education area. In previous discussions we had here - what do we need a master of professional studies? Of course, professional studies are related to the degree of industrial development. That's not controversial. But when it entered the paperwork in 2005, in 2006, our degree of industrial development was like that. So that's something that is required of us and that practically represents something that we, as I think, are forced to suggest and to immerse ourselves in this. As regards Article 13 The Law on Higher Education, I would like to say something about the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, which is practically icorporated in this Article 13. The accreditation commission, as a first-degree body and the National Council, as a second-degree body, has practically begun working with this reform law now long ago in 2005. As part of the first accreditation cycle and now on the basis of the second accreditation cycle, the accreditation commission had a large number of self-evaluation tests, had a number of checks, i.e. external quality checks, so that the representatives of the European Accreditation and Quality Check Commission of the ENKVA were here in September 2012. They've been there for a week, and they've done interviews with all relevant factors in the area of higher education. On the basis of these elements related to self-evaluation and based on the results of external control, the Accreditation Commission entered this organisation in April 2013, called the ENKVA or the European Association of Accreditation and Quality Verification Agency. It's a great recognition for the entire academic world and for our entire country. What is coming to us now, is the Commission going to enter an even more significant European organisation called the European Agency for Accreditation and Quality Check? If the previous ENKVA is an Agency, ECVA, that is, this European registry is practically one organisation between countries. What do European bodies ask of us, or what do they ask of the Commission for accreditation and quality checks? Independence is sought against the National Council and the Ministry of Education. What's important, under the old law, the accreditation commission had its own sub-account at the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8334	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8335	Based on this postulate that shows independence, we are among other things admitted to ENKVA.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8336	Thank you. You're out of time. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8337	Dear Mr. Becic, dear Mr. Verbic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, listening to my predecessors praise this law, I was afraid that the authors of the law would truly believe that the proposal was good. I think one critical note should always be given, because without constructive criticism, nothing can be improved. I will remind the ministry team, I hope that all the authors of this bill, that in the campaign for the last parliamentary elections literally all the political parties on the list of priorities had education and science, which alone meant nothing, was not a guarantee that the new government would treat it as a priority. However, messages on education and science from Prime Minister Vukic's exposé, including the name of reforming education and science, have given hope that it will finally enter into the root changes in these areas, of crucial importance for modern and prosperous Serbia. Here, the reminders for the sake of it, I'll only quote some of the messages. Some of his colleagues quoted Djurovic as saying. "This government will reform the education system. Our education will be our first priority. Knowledge is the foundation from which we are going to build our joint house, our new Serbia." Brilliant. When it comes to higher education, which is on the agenda today, the main message from the exposé was – this government will particularly deal with the quality of higher education institutions, their accreditation and the creation of conditions to facilitate the return of our experts from abroad. Frankly, it could be difficult to find any objections in the work of Prime Minister Vukic's exhibition in the area of education, but unfortunately, the impact of the ministry's past ministry has been disastrous. In addition to the relatively successful small graduations, all activities on the education plan were followed by numerous failures and affairs, and this around the small graduation was analyzed by the minister's statement the other day that the system would change again. From system 60-40 in points in favour of previous success in previous years of schooling, it is said – we have come to the conclusion that it is better to move to 70-30. Such experiments, such frequent experiments in our school don't lead to anything. I'm saying this on the reserve that it's a press statement, I didn't hear it in person. Well, by chance, next year we won't be participating in the PISA tests, if you trust the media. What I've come to believe, again in the new school year, has entered with a strike in primary and secondary schools, it's definitely. What else happened in the meantime? A number of affairs have arisen about obtaining a doctorate, but not just in private, and in state, why not say, colleges and universities. Furthermore, there is a reasonable doubt about the quality of some of the study programmes of individual universities and universities, which the accreditation committee... Meanwhile, the Commission has been a little encouraged, media criticism, public pressure. The Commission has become more courageous, no more rector Jovanovic on "Megatrend". What's going on? The Commission has introduced the measures so-called ‘the Commission’. a subsequent follow-up to one university and two universities, even at one state college, which is the Law in Kragujevac. The freshest example, that's what I said yesterday to the board minister, so he found it appropriate to explain to me that it was okay. The so-called discharge. clinical assistants at the Faculty of Medicine in Nis and not only that, adjudication, cancellation of the decision on the membership of Mr Perisic, Mayor of Nis, in the Council of the Medical Faculty. I can't figure it out, maybe it's all right with the find of the Educational Inspection, that in the week preceding the passing of amendments to the law, where it's clearly introduced to call clinical assistants, something like that. Also, when members of the council have not been appointed since 2008, in many universities, it is a disaster. I don't want to discuss at all whether it's right, according to the law, but what's going on? The latest information on emergency measures, checks, college accreditations on the Ministry's orders. I think it's inadmissible, because such colleges have such solutions from Nis via Kragujevac, Belgrade to Novi Sad. I don't think double standards are necessary. I must stress, too, with regrets, that it was also a big problem to convince Minister Verbic to appear on the Committee, to come to the Committee's session and to present the current activities and work plan of the ministry. We did it. Unfortunately, in the very least, before the end of the first 100 days of the new government. According to the agreement with the session, at which the ministry was very cooperative, public hearing on the draft law has been organised, and now the bill we are discussing today, in the sense of course the minister with associates, representatives of the academic community, we can tell KONUS, rectors, editors of private and state universities and representatives of SANU. During a nearly six-hour discussion in which, and I must tell you, they have been terribly surprised by the very conflicting views of the National Council, more specifically by the President of the National Council and by the members of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Monitoring. There's been a lot of quality proposals to improve the bill. Unfortunately, almost none of it was incorporated into the final version, i.e. in the motion that lies before you today. My predecessors have already said that the last law, I don't mean the changes, adopted after our accession to the Bologna process in 2005, is then changed for two years, so for a year, it's now starting to change. So four times; eight, ten, twelve and thirteen. This is the fifth change, let's be honest, first of all, for harmonising with international regulations. But also because of something good, allowing studies to end in old programs and old rules, that would be good because of a number of students who would lose the right to study in the status of a regular student. In the explanation of the promoters, it is sincerely said that for these two reasons, so regulations, alignment with regulations and allowing students to end up in the old regulations, these changes have been made, and I will have to quote this, and in order to overcome the problems observed during the application of the law. Of course, there are accreditations and obtaining permits, public security of the institution, recognition of foreign and higher education documents, databases and records contained, involvement of teachers and associates. In a brief analysis of the proposal ahead of us, we should say that this law really solves students' problems regarding the loss of student status and thresholds for enrollment next year, article 32 of this law. It also enables students who have been mastered by the old rules to enroll in the third year of doctoral studies, so they can continue in doctoral studies, Article 34. It's a bill of law. Here it is necessary to be honest and to give recognition to the Proposer for two good solutions. The first is to edit information systems, i.e. software and hardware. What matters is the databases and the records that are used in higher education. This is Article 26. Recognising and nostration, nostration has gone a long way with us, foreign diplomas, these are members from 28-30, primarily in terms of the separation of recognition of diplomas for employment, professionally, and continuation of study, academically, as well as the dramatic reduction of deadlines. There are examples, you know, that I am a professor of the University, and that I am in the middle of these things, that some people have been paid more to write again, to do PhDs defended in EU countries, the United States, than to wait for nostrification, both in terms of time and price. So, you have to be honest, whether we're the government or the opposition, these are good solutions and they should be commended. Unfortunately, this proposal has bad solutions as well. I'm not gonna make all the bad decisions. I will only list disastrous solutions so that ministry representatives can focus on these solutions. One, this is the introduction of professional master studies, and these are members of 6-10. Second, endangering the independence of the Commission for accreditation and quality monitoring. Something about it he was talking about, just by choice of words, of course, by fellow Djurovic. They're art. 2nd and 4th. Neither the old law nor the previous law, as far as the Commission's independence is concerned, was ideal, but we were conditionally admitted to an association of committees, with a recommendation to provide, strengthen independence, both financially and in terms of decision-making. On the long stick is our country's admission to this second, which is the Register of European Accreditation Agencys, where the rules are clear. What do we get from this bill now? Instead of strengthening the independence of the commission, we're jeopardizing it. Let me explain why this is important. We boast and praise the solutions to the recognition of foreign diplomas in our country. The point is to fight, to enter an integrated EU space in the fields of education and science, where our diplomas would be recognised. You said something about that. In order for our diplomas to be recognised, a necessary step is the membership of our accreditation commission and our country in these international associations. Keep that in mind. I'm not saying that we condition ourselves, but when it comes to what I'm going to talk about, we say professional studies – the EU. Nobody here mentions the EU and integrated space. So think carefully about this. This is a solution that distances us from the recognition of our diplomas. When it comes to vocational studies, in an explanation for changes to the law, there is no mention of the existence of vocational studies as a problem. That's an indication of one. And another indication in the list of good solutions, which is achieved by this law, is again not telling what enables these studies to be introduced. So, there's something going on at the little door. Of course, on a proposal from the National Council. Despite the public listening, I repeat all the members of the Committee and all the political parties, we have a stenogram behind this, a representative of the academic community, all the universities in Serbia and private and state. So that's the view of the CONUS. And the Serbian Academy of Science and Art. We had a member of the presidency and vice president of the academy. However, everyone was against it, everyone claimed that this was a bad solution, a surprising rector of a private university that could profit from it incredibly, but the man honestly said it was a bad solution. Nevertheless, professional studies are being introduced at the small door, master of professional course. Master studies, for the sake of the public, are primarily intended for students who have completed primary academic studies and should enable them to continue education and create conditions and prepare them for doctoral studies. On the other hand, professional studies are designed to train students to carry out professional activities. Therefore, the introduction of this second level of professional study is contrary to their very nature. And what don't you say, too, because they already exist at that level of professional specialist study with the same number of points or loans as you want. In potential employers, there has been a huge confusion about professional, scientific, academic names, let's say they don't understand the difference between professional basic and academic basic studies. The confusion creates a term graduated from 240 credits. Some colleges have four-year studies. And an even greater confusion creates a distinction between the term and the graduate, according to the law that was in force until 2005. Now the worst. At the very least, it is incorrect to use the argument that the President of the National Council used on both the first and the public hearing committee, I am sorry that he is not present today, that this is being introduced to comply with legislation that is in force both in the EU and in the field of education and even worse, he said, and it is in the stenogram because it requires the EU to do so. Absolutely not, because the master of vocational studies is not in the higher education system in most EU member states. I'm responsible for the situation. For the sake of truth, professional master studies have been introduced only in the most technologically developed countries, EU members, the type of Germany, in Britain, with an extremely strong industry, and require exceptional equipment and personnel. That comment that in the meantime it strengthened the industry, and that is absolutely not what it stands for. At the end of time, I'm running out of time, at least in this first performance, it should be pointed out, our deadlines, all deadlines in the transitional provisions are inadmissiblely long. These are members 36 to 42. They should be drastically shortened. Let's say last week, and today he's saying, as soon as we're done with this, we're going to go to a new law by the end of 2015. Well, does it make sense, then, that the law states that within a year of the entry into force of this law, the minister shall adopt sublegal acts, Article 36. Or that the government appoints members of the High School Council within six months. And since 2008, there have been colleges where the advice doesn't work for that reason. So it needs to be reduced. Just in the end, let me say. With this proposal, the very important thing is not taken into account. These are the choice, jurisdiction and responsibility of the dean, rector, director, which was necessary to do in accordance with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy for the period 2013/2018. the years and the Action Plan for its implementation. This was necessary to amend the legal framework relating to the choice of positions and the authority of the management bodies. Dear Mr. Becic, honourable Minister Verbic, with numerous associates, just to say that we have made efforts as Parliament's club Boris Tadic – NDS – Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, that many amendments of which have a good number of amendments of essential nature are the second consequence of these amendments, to fix the law as far as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8338	I thank Mr Stojadinovic. Mr Zlata Djeric, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8339	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates and the respected public of Serbia. When we talk about this important topic in Serbia and when I'm talking about it myself, then I have to go back first of all to my personal starting point and source, and I come from a town that is truly the most important tradition in education here. I come from Somboro, which was founded in 1778, the first outreach of today's high schools, "Teacher's Standard" by the reputation of the most important German schools of that time, which in 1816 had already grown into "Preparandia", and in Belgrade, Dositej Obradović founded Dositej Obradović in 1808 along with his most significant associate of the same somborian "Norma" member Ivan Jugovic. So, I like to point it out because of my city, which is truly the heritage of this most bright and significant tradition, perhaps even in this part of Europe. This is what direct guides me and recommends that I speak today about this law, because I am also a student of this very traditional Sombora teacher school which has become and remained a significant source of staff education. As for you, Mr. Minister, I must tell you what I am happy to say to every minister of education, because I am here on the fourth term here, as I wish you as a young man to be at least four term minister of education, because continuity in education is very important. You as a scientific worker know that. I mean, you're the minister of the most important ministry in this country. You're the minister of the ministry that has the most expensive resources in this country, which is knowledge. That's what you should know. No matter how much the economic crisis dictates interest in other areas and other ministries, indeed, finance ministers are remembered throughout history and ministers of education are remembered. One country that builds its foundation in education has a great roof. Higher education is the roof of this country's education. What I would disagree with in your discussion today is when you said that we are recognizable, that our higher education is the highest quality, that I do not dispute and that I am as proud as you are. I'd say that's the most visible thing, but only one addition here. Our higher education is the highest quality precisely because we managed to preserve as much as we could in these turbulent and difficult times, the highest quality primary education. Basic education is the source of the entire education structure of one country, quality primary education. I will allow myself to be personal and to be emotional and to say that in each of us and in each of our personal success, the success of our teacher has been incorporated. So real teachers are the foundation of a good society. In your term of office, Mr. Minister, and in your personal success, you will certainly be recognized by that ancient root set in those times. What Klaus Mozer said at the time – education is expensive, but ignorance is much more expensive and much more expensive in society, we are today dealing with amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which you yourself said we had changed in 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2013, we will also change this law. This won't be the end of it, because we'll bring a new one. Anyway, education is a living process. It never stops. Winning knowledge is a living process, it never stops. It's a life process, and as Lao Ce said -- it's similar to rowing upstream, as soon as you stop, you're going back. So, it is hard, but knowledge is the only resource that is personal and inalienable. What happened to Serbia and why this law today came before us, is that there were never more people with diplomats and never less functional knowledge. That's the point. So, the diploma came in different ways, even, we won't hide, sometimes in very difficult ways, but the diplomas weren't, high school institutions, they weren't in a reciprocal relationship with the acquired knowledge. That's the problem we recognize in our daily lives. You will admit that economic analysts say the gross social product has just fallen dramatically due to lack of functional knowledge. In order for functional knowledge to be won and adopted and existed and able to serve effectively in one society, it is not won at a higher school institution, its conquest begins much earlier, even before primary school in preschool, but the primary school is indeed the foundation. The primary school is not basic because it is less important, but because it really is the basis of all society and all later upgrades. I welcome indeed the solutions to these amendments and the additions to the laws that are before us. I think you have succeeded in the solutions offered to solve a significant part of the problem in the existing law. One significant part of the dilemma to solve, to make it very clear to be effective, to be applicable. Life will show if you and we were right when this law came into force. In any case, what this law should allow, it is to reduce corruption in higher education that we are all aware of, in one way or another, and to restore dignity to higher education institutions. The dignity they deserve. In order to have all this, since we are talking about education, about a very specific and undeniable process of a society without which society cannot survive, I will return to what I was telling the Minister of Education at the time in 2010 and then in this same assembly hall handed him a bill, because today the minister was saying that he was going to come into the procedure of a new law. So, the inspection law, I also welcome it, and I think it should be very quick. You also announced, I think I saw somewhere in the paper, that you would make changes to the Law on textbooks or even bring a new one. It's really something that's very important and necessary. What we suggest to you and suggest to the higher education that I think will have to change again a little bit, and what I will personally propose to you as a minister, it is to pass a law by the reputation of some other countries in an environment that has been resolved and some countries that are not in our direct environment, it is the Law on Teacher's Practices. The higher education of those who educate others. So this is a field that is not arranged, where teachers are the first starting point of education in life, the first starting point of education of a society, the first starting point of knowledge, the most significant in our lives. Look, you can spend your life never meeting a doctor, if you're lucky and in good health. You can spend your life never meeting a judge, lawyers, living a life in which you have these institutions, never meeting them. You can never meet a cop or any other profession, but none of us in the 21st century and 20th century and that the whole society, the whole world, is trying, can live a life without a teacher. So that's what's inevitable. That is why I insist both personally and professionally, but indeed as well as as a man who knows this profession and lives in a life where I simply see the importance of this institution. In order for this institution to truly be preserved, for as the Chinese said, the army taught you how to use weapons, but a teacher against whom we must restore dignity to this profession. To educate them, the most important thing is the bond, that methodically didactic approach, which is mentors teachers, those who are from practical work, who introduce future teachers into practical work with all the resources of knowledge. We will not ignore the problem that was imposed in this market thinking in Serbia, and we are talking about knowledge as the most expensive resource, so that knowledge as the most expensive resource could be conquered and competitive in the world market, now I am speaking to this economic dictionary, it must be adopted in an adequate way and quality way, and we have indeed one problem and I have put it as a parliamentary question minister and I have received an answer, and this is a problem of a large number of textbooks with material errors. As a scientific worker, you are aware of what is a material mistake in adopting knowledge. So that's something that's inadmissible. The textbook is an institution. He's not a book. The textbook is an institution. He must be incomparable in every scientific fact. Scientific work is the continuity of work. The facts must be clear, unequivocal, unambiguous because based on these facts you build and form one consciousness, one world, and if you allow, we form a society. What I think, Mr. Minister, in your answer that I have received is not adequate, you have told me that it will be approached by correcting textbooks, or material errors. There is so much that it is very professional in certain subjects that people have to be engaged and it will be very demanding and difficult, because it is primarily an expensive process for publishers who have already invested in it and only expect to sell it, and we have allowed the forests of publishers and we have allowed the unselective printing of textbooks and their distribution. So it's going to be very hard to deal with. I think it's going to be one of your more difficult tasks as a minister and you're going to run into serious resistance and serious hostility, but take your chances. On the other hand, you will have very serious support to get this job done. A textbook with a material error, not to mention with a number of material errors, destroys the authority of all institutions. You know, when I was once able to discuss with a colleague a specific material error in a textbook, right in my class, in Serbian, I asked her how she puts herself in front of children when she gets this assignment, or do you have to study the child deliberately wrong or tell him the textbook is wrong? How do you manage this situation? Which authority protects, your or your textbook, and you must act uniquely. A textbook, a school and a teacher. It's one of the little things that I use the opportunity to speak for, in general, in higher education and in this law. It's a change and a supplement. We'll have to change in that part of education, higher education teachers and educational staff in the follow-up. What we expect is that this law, these amendments and the additions of the laws, should be shortened by inaccessible long deadlines and we, as a parliamentary group, have introduced several amendments relating to these deadlines because, in addition to knowledge, no other resource can be compensated or bought, nor to buy, and that is the time and indeed there is room for some of the segments to further shorten some of the procedures compared to what you have suggested. So these amendments are purely well-intentioned. We expect that if there is enough understanding, I will explain in the discussion in particular, that you adopt them, and if not, my God, there will be an opportunity to fix some more things if it turns out in practice that it is not good. In any case, we must respect the time we have ahead and see that the law is effective, and the law is only effective if it is implemented quickly, easily and easily. It is the purpose of every law and to be, of course, just for everyone. We welcome the considerable transparency of this law, we welcome the clarity and transparency of university accreditation which is very important, what is now becoming public information and clear and what should be the goal of higher education in Serbia. I would not agree with some citizens, even our society, that education, higher education should allow young people to leave here with one quality of knowledge. Our higher education with really high quality, which you stated in your opening presentation, should be competitive in this sense that young people from the world are coming to educate us here. We have to have universities, we have to be an exporter of knowledge, not young people. So, that our universities are in line for quality and that they are attractive for EU students, as one member is expected, to come here to educate by all criteria, to know that the knowledge they acquire here will be quality, applied anywhere. What we expect was one rhetorical question in one presentation of a previous colleague what young people can expect from our higher education. If we deal with those problems of professions that do not exist and are being extorted by some modern trends in education and which are inapplicable, such as the inapplicable and knowledge that they acquire through these professions, if we leave out these various spines of qualification of calling and knowledge, then we will come to expect young people to come out of these higher education institutions ready, educated, trained and armed with knowledge to change the world in which they live, that they are actively changing the world in which they live, or Serbia in which they live in a new modern country to their extent. So, as a generation, we have done what we could, and it is our job to prepare for them a field where they will acquire the necessary strength, confidence, knowledge, abilities and skills and, as I said, to make it their starting weapon to change the world in which they live, to make it a desirable and rich place in which they will feel good, to their own end. Higher education has a great chance at this time in Serbia to regain its dignity, to strengthen it and to be exactly one of the most significant promoters of modern Serbia and Serbia as we wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8340	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8341	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is one of the laws that we in the National Assembly talked about a lot, we on the Education Committee also talked a lot about him. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Minister for such a relationship he had with the Assembly when it comes to making this law and talking about it, but at the same time I would like to express my regret, as did Mr. Stojadinovic, which many of the things that he and the MPs of the Committee could hear, he did not decide to integrate in this bill. Before we begin to discuss the specific provisions of this law, I would ask you a very important question, which will give us an answer to the question in which tone we are talking about today, and what exactly do you expect from this law of this application, when it comes to high education, when it comes to high education? What happened to the doctorate of Heavenly Stefanovic? What's the end of that story, what's the epilogue of that story? I'll explain to you why I'm convinced this is directly related to the provisions of this law. Even if we ignore the fact that the police minister is accused of plagiarism, it is indeed in some way a matter of his personal morality in which he will defend himself against these charges, whether he will defend himself, whether he will prove that he is not, it is the same thing that the party belongs to whether he will decide to politicalally and politically defend the minister who is accused of the most severe academic offense, this case has revealed us great problems in the higher education system. You are today obliged to answer the question in which way will this bill allow such and similar things to no longer happen in the future? In what way will this law prevent tomorrow from happening that some university has no satisfactory level of doctoral studies, in which way it will prevent tomorrow from turning out that out of the five members of the commission two could not see a doctorate at all because it does not know the language in which the doctorate is written, that one member of the commission is not even present at the defense, that one member who is a mentor does not meet the basic requirements of being a mentor at all, in which way will this bill prevent such things from happening in the future and in what way will this bill solve the biggest problems that exist in higher education today? It is seen from what you yourself said and already on several occasions, when on the Committee and in public hearing we discussed the proposal for this law, but also what you said today, that you yourself are not completely satisfied with the changes and additions you have offered here today, that you are ready to do a whole new law on higher education, which, of course, you have the support of DS MPs. But you said one strange thing today. In fact, you said there were, quote what you said, our proposals that couldn't get into this bill. Can you tell us who it is that we have proposed something and who it is that did not allow the ministry or the working group to propose, who did not allow all these proposals to enter the bill? This looks a little like what we had last year at this time, and these are the famous brakes of reform. If there are such people, please tell me who's stopping you from making any changes to the bill that you feel is necessary. Given that you, the MPs, the citizens, etc., are represented as a man with a plan, as a man who has just recommended that he has a comprehensive plan for reforming education, and therefore a higher education, we are somewhat disappointed by what you have appeared before the National Assembly, because if you have this reform plan, why didn't you put him into this law? Did anyone stop you? If he stopped you and if you didn't have government support for all the reforms you wanted to endure, you know what to do. There's Mr. Krstic, he had a reform plan, the government didn't want to implement them, he resigned because he didn't want to participate in such a team. And if you don't have a plan, which is why, that is, if this is all you have right now to offer, which is why Prime Minister Vukic has deceived us here telling us that you have some kind of comprehensive plan for higher education reforms. Given that he proposed you as the minister of the party's most filthy campaign in the history of political campaigns, declared that someone dared to ask where the president of the Republic acquired his university education, given that you were proposed by a party whose president also decided politically to defend the Minister of the Interior charged with plagiarism, I think that the answer itself is being imposed, that you, moreover, had no support to implement what you wanted to do, and not that you didn't know exactly what to do. Let's start with the members of these laws you're proposing. But when it comes to the first member of the law that lies before us today, you add here a provision when it comes to university autonomy, that the rights of attitude 1 of this member are realised with respect for the principle of openness to the public and to the citizens. In theory it sounds very good, but practice has shown that it means absolutely nothing. And because such a provision, this principle of openness to the public of citizens, already exists in the old law, in Article 4 but without explaining what it means, what college obligations are to the public of citizens, who assess whether the university has respected its obligation to do all this in accordance with the principle of openness to the public of citizens. Such a provision here means absolutely nothing. It is precisely in the case of plagiarism or plagiarism charges, Minister Stefanovic, that the provision that you are now repeating in article 6 and re-additioning it to Article 6 although it already exists in Article 4. does not mean anything. A group of MPs from the DS have proposed a way in which this provision could be given some meaning. It is similar to what the MPs of the new party have proposed that this law must be put at the heart of academic honesty, because, without insisting on that principle, there will be no reform with which you are coming here, but only such technical changes and additions that will not really change anything. I believe you're a man who didn't come to the government to propose technical changes and supplements. Then we get to the part about accreditation of high school institutions. You have chosen to change as many as five members related to the accreditation of high school institutions. However, you have not chosen, and I expect you to answer me, which is why you have not chosen to change the most important member who is talking about it and who is actually creating problems in the higher education system, which is a member of the 15th in the old law, which says that the Commission is carrying out a verification of the obligations of an independent high school institution and a high school unit in its composition regarding quality according to the annual job plan, exclusively under the special order of the National Council, at the request of an independent higher school institution or minister. Which is why, Mr. Verbic, we have not imposed a permanent control obligation on the high school institution to meet its obligations, meet the requirements and maintain the standards for which it has been accredited? It's a public secret and all the colleagues in the Education Committee know it and all the colleagues who work at universities know it, that high-school institutions are the least trouble getting accreditation, because at the moment when their accreditation is carried out they then meet all the conditions. We spoke before you, and we talked to you about the problem that there are teachers who compete from college to college, and then when the time comes for that college to be accredited, he also has the required number of teachers and study programs, meets all the conditions for accreditation, but it's only for the needs of accreditation. These colleges, these universities know that they're five years old until the time for accreditation comes again no one will control whether they have those teachers, whether they have these study programs, whether they have enough students. And you chose to keep that condition. You instead of introducing that check to be carried out on a permanent basis, you have kept the provisions of the old law which predict that this check is only carried out as an exception, and not as a rule at the request of that same institution, the same college that needs to be controlled and on the minister's order it is your right which, despite the obvious needs, you did not choose to use in the case of Megatrend University. So what you suggested for accreditation is good and there's no one to say it's bad, but it's not enough because you haven't changed the most important thing and it's not enough because you haven't done it, you haven't solved what's really the biggest problem. Furthermore, when we talk about accreditation, several colleagues have already talked about the problem that opposition MPs point to, but rather the problem that people from the Accreditation Commission have given us. All those present at the public hearing had the opportunity to hear their own kind of debate between representatives of the National Council and representatives of the Accreditation Commission. They are very dissatisfied with the treatment they have in this law. They are very unhappy that they are placed directly dependent on the Republic of Serbia's budget, but the smaller problem is that they are unhappy with it. A much bigger problem is that they are threatened with being excluded from the international organisations they are in, which means that really students with our college diplomas will have a problem with their diplomas being recognized, recognized and evaluated according to the level of education, the level of knowledge they have. It's one big problem when it comes to accreditation where those solutions are generally not bad, but far from being good and far from being enough. The current solution was not good, but you instead of fixing it you decided to further worsen the bad solution anyway. It's unclear why you don't want them to establish it and whether they're maintaining the level they've been accredited for, which is why you refuse to control it. Now we come up with another big problem that is the same, I think, all my colleagues, all the university rectors, the people of the National Council were talking about, and these are these famous masters of professional studies. You have neither recognized the lack of masters of professional studies in those basic problems that you listed as reasons for law making, nor do you feel the lack of these studies are real, or there is a problem in the labour market because of these studies. However, you are under the false pretext that the EU's request is decided to be one of the first amendments that you make to the Higher Education Act. The masseuse of professional studies indeed exists in some EU countries. These are countries with developed economy, these are countries with developed industrial centres, with planned social infrastructure, therefore, planned health care, planned education, etc. In such countries, a higher level of vocational studies indeed makes sense and schools where these studies are conducted have very close co-operation with companies in cities where they are located and they actually educate experts for previously known jobs. Furthermore, at these schools they teach people who have a really high level of practical knowledge. These are people from the economy, people from industry, people who have great experience, and these schools are also very well equipped to work with such students and to train and transfer practical skills from that profession that they are trained for. The difference between ordinary academic master studies and professional master studies is that academic master studies students get a high level of general knowledge, while in the case of professional master studies it is not a situation, they are really schooled for a narrow field, which in our case means that they are trained for jobs that do not exist. We don't have an industry, nor do we have industrial centres where these people could get a job tomorrow and for which they would be trained in such a fit of specific profiles. Our vocational schools are dominated by a bar that has no practical experience, which means that they cannot transfer practical knowledge to these future students and schools, as well as all other schools, to have this level of equipment so that they can establish co-operation with some companies, businesses, industries to see where these people can be employed and, of course, have no good laboratory conditions that could accompany such levels of training. If we were to introduce these masters of structural studies in Serbia, and there is every chance that we will, although everyone is against it, and only the ministry is for it, you said that opinions were divided, were not shared opinions, only you were up for it, and the rest were against it, we will have as a result that we will educate profiles that will have no place to work, because they will be educated for a narrow speciality for which there is simply no employer with us. It has nothing to do with you, it has to do with us training people who won't have anywhere to work. Master level student education will not be of the necessary quality, and if these schools claim to give some broader education to overcome this problem, and not just vocational education, it means that they would become some kind of poor imitation academic master study, which would actually introduce only additional chaos and create some kind of parallel education system, but above all would create a chaos on the market, because they would be just a bad copy of academic studies. Then why is this proposed? Mr. Stojadinovic said at one point, it seems to me in public hearing, that some who hate reforms say this is being introduced because of nurses. We really refuse to believe that it is a case. However, you would have to explain to us why it is done and that it is a true explanation, because these are all experts whose education will be paid by citizens who will not have a simple place to work. I'll finish after it's almost 20 minutes. We have a large number of amendments. Depending on how you decide on our amendments, and we will decide on this bill. What we see now is that what's good isn't so good at all, what you're proposing. What you're proposing, and it's bad, is disastrously bad, and all the most important issues, all the most important problems that exist in the higher education system, you don't answer at all. If you don't have the support for reforms, say, we'll give you support, but don't present as a reform something that isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8342	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. National MP Dr. Alexander Martivić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, and as regards the constructed and politicised affairs of the PhD of Nebojska Stefanovic, the current Minister of Interior, I think that SNS MPs, as well as one part of the professional public, have provided enough evidence that it is a single out-of-work affair whose subject is not actually the doctorate of Neboj Stefanovic, but the intention of the Minister of Interior, the intention of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic to once and for all the time eradicated crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia. We were on the Education Committee, just to remind a distinguished colleague who spoke before me, we were showing a doctorate of Nebojska Stefanovic and comparing him with all those allegations that appeared on the site “Sandstones”, which was said to have been written by alleged experts from Great Britain, and that was to the extent that expert expertise had stood on, imagine, the four sides of which were not full of the two photos, so it was from the occasion of the text on one two pages. So much for the exhaustive analysis of the doctorate of Nebojsa Stefanovic. At the meeting of the Education Committee, we have proved that the allegations published on the "Sands" site are factually and numerically incorrect. I'm not saying this because of the former regime's MPs, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, for the public, and also for the gentlemen of the Ministry of Education. So that topic is over. We have proved that the doctorate of Heavenly Stefanovic is authentic, and that the allegations against this doctorate are complete untrue and false.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8344	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. For his word came from the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, I believe that a member of 104 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is defined when one MP has the right to reply. Please allow me to use two minutes to explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure without interrupting me. Mr. Martinovic just reported that he is replicating Mrs. Jerkov. In Article 104, it reads: “If the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly was offended by a national MP who was not a member of the same parliamentary group,” which Mrs Jerkov did not do, “cite his name, last name or function,” which Mrs Jerkov also did, “or misread his presentation,” which Mrs Jerkov did not do, “the national MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. ” Dear Chairman Becic, there was no reason to give Mr. Martinovic's word now to replicate Mrs. Jerkov just because Mrs. Jerkov told the minister that the amendment to the Law on Higher Education should introduce the principle of academic integrity. Please, Mr. Becic, that in the future, not today, not today, not for the next few days, do not commit such violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to allow a debate on whether there is something plagiarism, whether something is plagiarism, whether the principle of academic integrity should be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8346	Mr. Pavicevic, you have reported from the violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are using the Rules of Procedure. As chairman, I had the right to judge. A senior SNS official, SNS Vice-President and an authorised representative of the parliamentary group are mentioned. In this case, the deputy president of the parliamentary group had the right to explain and report to the replica. If you do not know the Rules of Procedure, I know that you are a new MP, you must see that the chairman still decides in this case whether anyone has the right to reply or not, as I have given you the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, which you have abused. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8347	The Honorable Chairman... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What is this way? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8348	Mr. Pavicevic, you say what's the way, and you get up and then you throw and yell from the scene. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8349	Articles 103, 106 and 107. You can't do this, Mr. Chairman. You have to let people explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You cannot tell someone who is taxing you a member and what has been hurt specifically – you abuse the Rules of Procedure and there is nothing left to report. It's an exaggeration of your authority. Please don't do this. You're jumping now knowingly, deliberately and deliberately opposition and moving on, and as we're going to the SPS now, let's forget about this. Please, this is serious. Let people explain what the injury is in. You can't give qualifications in advance and you can't give a replica to Mr. Martinovic without a basis. There must be some ground, at least something that's been done. Like when he says – the former regime, and some are recognized, and some are not, so when someone says – Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, I understand, but then you must allow the other side to answer that. After all, we had a dialogue with only the minister, only the minister. The minister can call if I understand the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand why this need for protection. Let the minister protect his colleague, if that's what it is. If it's the Rules of Procedure, you've broken it very harshly now. You don't let a man explain what this is about. Don't be like -- I don't care, I don't care, I don't care about the opposition. This does not contribute to a quality debate. And like this, our time for discussion is 20 minutes. Don't make it hurt so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8350	Thank you. If you followed the debate, you saw that I allowed two minutes patiently to explain why Mr. Pavicevic thinks I hurt the Rules of Procedure. When he finished two minutes, I explained why I didn't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, which is why I think I was right and I thought I should give my word to Mr. Martinovic, because a senior SNS official was mentioned. I can only ask him now if he wants to make a statement in Parliament's Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want to make a statement in Parliament's Voting Day on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8351	I want the Parliament's voting day to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you just did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8352	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. You can only hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8353	In that case, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. If Mr. Martinovic says - esteemed, I hope that it was not for the sake of respect, but for the previous pay phone that spoke before me, then don't let us stick to the formality of whether he said the name and last name. It's known to refer to the previous speaker. Then we can really avoid names and last names, and we can talk in detail about the MPs and the other people we put in our speech, and then no one will ever have the right to reply. If you still feel that the previous speaker, who spoke before Mr. Martinovic, does not refer to me who spoke before him, then you say so, but then in the future we all talk descriptively about everyone. No one will ever mention any name again, so no one will ever be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8354	Thank you. I understand that Mr. Martinovic spoke about the previous speaker, i.e. about you, but he said – a respected previous speaker, so I didn't see anything offensive here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8355	The basis for replication is also wrong interpretation, not just offensive expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8356	What he said – a respected previous speaker, I saw nothing offensive that I would have the opportunity to give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8357	In that case, a respected police minister plagiarized his doctorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8358	It's your basic culture, Miss Jerkov. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8359	The Honorable Chairman, they are severely injured. 103 and 107, because you had no right to give them the violation of the Rules of Procedure because you had already given the word to Mrs. Vukomanovic. Then someone was yelling from the scene trying to arrange the order of this session, which perhaps someone was used to because it was such a manners for him to behave while they were in power. Please, if you have already given your word to a respected colleague, Vukomanovic, you had no right to take away from her, and to bow down before shouting and inappropriate behavior, and not to talk about some terrible throw-off, which we are witnesses here and which, unfortunately, cannot be seen in a congregation broadcast. I ask you to take care of it and never give up on this kind of thing again, because no one with violence can arrange the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8360	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8361	Art. 103 and 104. Mr. Chairman, I ask you not to give in to these strong pressures by the ruling party to violate the Rules of Procedure and to endure in your direction that this parliamentary debate may receive the spirit it deserves. I ask you not to allow the previous speaker to use and abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure, that twice in a row, and I do it the third time, we use the same member, and you were the first to prohibit it during the previous sessions. Please resist, hold fast, hold fast while the advances try to interfere with your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8362	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8363	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, I think it is a pleasure for you to see that we, MPs, today with so much ferocity and with so much temperament are fighting for the right to speak of this extremely important topic, the Law on Higher Education, the amendments and additions to this extremely important law. As I have already said, I have witnessed a lot of bitterness and temperamental discussions, but I am much more fascinated by the wisdom of my colleagues. Each person in his presentation gave very useful advice. I am pleased that Minister Verbic said that the working group for the creation of a future new law on higher education is in a permanent session. I am sure, as at committee meetings or during public hearings, that representatives, his associates from the Ministry of Education and Science will have the opportunity to incorporate some of these councils. What we all do together today is look at the motion for changes and additions and the law itself from different angles. But I want to stress the same thing that I think each of you would point out, which is to know who should be in the focus of this law on higher education, and these are students and teachers, they are those who invest the most energy and knowledge in the implementation of what is prescribed by this law. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out some principles, something that encourages me to think, which is that in the 21st century, we are trying to avoid knowledge and education being valued as a commodity that can be bought, selling on the IPR market. So, I don't mean in the persuasive sense. Simply, the fact is that, regardless of budget funding, many students and their families invest large amounts of money to get a degree in higher education. Education isn't just a slave. It's one of the most important state resources. Then, the next principle I would insist on is that we cannot allow, no matter what economic and social crisis we are in, that we have as much knowledge and education in our society and that it is worth how much money we have to invest in a higher education system. In the end, we need to be aware that we live in the 21st century of information technologies, when knowledge is getting very fast. We are in the process of EU membership, we are a candidate country and we need to harmonise our legislation very quickly. As a representative of the SPS, I am pleased to point out that this minister and this team of his co-workers continue the work initiated by earlier ministers. Of course, I also point out with pleasure from our party colleague, Minister Obradovic. What I'm saying is that one minister never starts from the beginning, but continues the work that began earlier colleagues or colleagues. I am pleased to point out that as a left-wing party, we really want to support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, because we think it spreads space for people to perfect themselves and to educate themselves. Also, I would say that my impression, many colleagues have talked about details, in this law and with improvement, which are trying to introduce, is that we are coming into a small contradiction between, not only autonomy and openness and public availability of the University of Openness, but also the principles of inclusion. So because we want to expand the scope of education and knowledge, simultaneously taught from other areas of society or economy, social ageing, we know that there are some manipulative spaces here, or areas of corruption. Therefore, it is really difficult to find that equilibrium and to measure carefully every provision, every member and every stream of legal regulations. I have identified, in what has been given to us today, to consider and to discuss in principle, and later to consider in particular, to insist on autonomy, openness... This is already in Article 1 - University autonomy is not threatened by the principle of openness. I think it really is, because we're all under the radar of the public. Citizens have the right to know what happens in such institutions that they spend, after all, budgets, not just private universities or higher education institutions. Then, as the minister pointed out, there is an emphasis on transparency. So, the repositories of this top education product, the doctoral thesis repositories, will be formed, and indeed the general public will have the right, so to speak, to access that database electronically. Then, what is very important is what the accreditation board does for control, i.e. to check the quality of higher education institutions, and there are different institutions, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, so to speak, the holes in the law and therefore we have insisted perhaps on some provisions that will prevent specific deadlines, which will prevent any manipulation in delaying the granting of accreditation. This transparency of funding is very important. So, the level of tuition and sources of funding. That's very important. For each family, it is extremely important for each student how much money and on what time period they invest in their education. So, I think that public data, with the provisions of articles 12 to 15, is now increased. Also, when forming these electronic databases or when issuing a diploma, it is very important to protect personality data and to stress that in this set of changes it has been made. So, at the same time, it allows the public to have insight into the repository, for example, doctoral thesis, or dissertation, but also to protect their personal data, the author of these doctoral dissertations. It also spreads a circle of participants in the educational process. Not only is this introduced by visiting professors at art colleges, professors of metrics who are the most respected, who have the greatest knowledge fund and the act of retirement their careers do not stop, because this law allows them to continue their work and to educate new generations. Since I come from this area, from the fields of scientific and research organisations, I am very pleased to stress the fact that these additions allow researchers, who have acquired or been elected to scientific calling, to have access to teaching, are allowed to be mentors, members of the Committee for the Making and Defence of Doctoral Disserts, or members of the Committee for the Preparation of Proposals for the Selection of Teachers and Associates of the University. This, as stated in the explanation, further strengthens the link between the academic and the scientific-research community. I don't think there's any reason why these people, who have the same degree of knowledge, so to speak, or equally, wouldn't be involved in the educational high school process. That's one big step forward. I am very pleased to stress that the extended space for the engagement of associates outside the working relationship, young people who become protesters, associates, practitioners or clinical assistants. So they are linked to educational academic and scientific research institutions and will certainly work to perfect their careers. What I'm about to say right now is a little encouragement. Now this discussion has shown. We're parliamentarians. He's been raised several times by the Rules of Procedure. I mean, as Parliamentarians, as the legislative branch of the government, we often hold the Constitution, in this case the Rules of Procedure or the Law. The law is our strongest weapon, but those who participate in the government, regardless of whether politicians are experienced, whether they belong to political parties or are experts thanks to their professional capacities, must show a higher degree of determination to make some difficult, unpopular decisions. As I said, in focus, at the centre of this law on higher education, students are in addition to teachers and others who are engaged in the teaching process. Also, I'm afraid we've been going to meet worse students for a long time. With the full right of someone, most of you were very good and excellent students, I think that anyone who heads the Resort Ministry must show a firmer attitude towards students and colleges about the entry into force of that system, the European system, portable points, so that every beginning of the academic year is not one painful process of bidding on keeping a lower rate of points, or around a number of exams. We really hope that what is said here will be reduced from school 2015 to 2016. Why am I saying this? Because students in Serbia, as future employees, will come foreign investors, coming foreign companies, must indeed enter a European and global competition of knowledge levels and value levels of knowledge, and therefore they must show much greater readiness to learn rapidly and adapt to European and world standards of education. This also applies to the meeting of the so-called to senior students. Now this provision extends the deadline for completion by an older programme for two years, except for the field of integrated medical sciences. I think it's much better to encourage someone who doesn't want to, can't or isn't able to finish for various reasons of study, to simply get a job, but to be in the status of a senior student. What the minister stressed and what's very good is the final regulation of the nostrification of foreign higher education papers and recognition of qualifications. The minister stressed that a national centre for recognition of foreign higher education documents would be established. He said how many people who know more foreign languages will be employed. It can't be a discretionary right anymore. Students in mutual communication, when returning from abroad, should no longer be appalled at how long the process of nostrification is going on or being affected by this injustice that, with the same or similar programme by the higher education institutions, their diplomas are not recognised, or their quality is not respected enough. These were about the key topics that other colleagues highlighted in their discussions. Some of them may not have been able to complete their discussion, but I am really paying attention to something that most of us, at least the heads of parliament, have received a memo from the accreditation commission and quality check. Therefore, this expressed concern that perhaps these proposed amendments and additions to the law may not allow the survival of our accreditation commission in this European network of accreditation associations, i.e. membership in the European accreditation register. There'll be room to talk about it in detail. The minister will certainly declare himself on the Committee, but I ask that we weigh in the long term, so that we do not come into the situation because of some provisions, in order to prevent room for manipulation, the moment when we are assessed in the screening process or the EU membership negotiations process, so as not to put us at risk of not meeting some European standards and expectations. Finally, nothing less important today on the agenda is the agreement between Serbia and the EU on the Horizon 2020 programme, which insists on research and innovation. Serbia may still be far from that criterion, 3% of GDP is investing in innovation, i.e. research and development, but we have managed to network. This is indeed great progress, with our membership increasing, EU bids being given a greater right to access these European funds, because you know that the 21st-century economy is based on the knowledge economy. Our scientific and research institutions have indeed managed to network and demonstrate absorption capacity, that they can manage money and invest it in various projects that will certainly produce results in some practical application. With this agreement, we are networking in a European space of scientific and research. I think it's one big chance to prevent the brain draining process from our country. In Voting Day, the SPS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to this law and agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8364	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8365	I am pleased with today's discussion that there is a positive spirit in this House, that this was a debate at a high academic intellectual level. The little charms that came just now show that we are also parliamentarians. After all, we saw a picture from the Macedonian parliament where parliamentarians almost got into a fight. It's not wisdom, nor courage to speak. That's why I tell my colleagues in the majority, it's more wisdom and more courage to listen. So let us have the strength to listen to the opposition no matter how strong or harsh their words may be, for they show us that what they did in the previous period was not good. They're not attacking the law we've passed. They attack the law that they passed and show that this law had shortcomings, that it was not good, that we were forced to make changes and supplement that law. Normally, the minister and his team couldn't make a new law in a short time that everyone would like. That's why they approached the changes and additions that were imminent at the moment. In the period ahead of us, we have a promise from the minister that we will be working on a new law and I believe that the minister will have so much wisdom that not only he and his team are working, but that he is seeking consensus from all of us and that we all participate in making this law, because it is a law relating to the education system, and the education system does not belong to one party, two parties, or I do not know which coalitions that are in power, but it is a law for which we are all interested. I hope in the next period that we will understand this and that we will all work together to improve our education system. According to Viktor Igor, the two most important MPs in each country, and I believe some here would say Borko Stefanovic and counterpart Babic, no, they are not. Two of the most important MPs in every country are the teacher and teacher. These are the people who have been preparing our children from their young feet to be honest and honest citizens of their country. I hope we have enough power to allow these people to work in an atmosphere where they can live off their work. Why did I say this? I was almost in Kursumlia, and they gave me an example that's not pleasant and not beautiful. Most likely because people can't live on their salaries, they're referring to educators, they've found a way to increase their incomes. Fitively, they report that they live in Nis and live in Kursumlia and charge travel expenses to Nis and back daily to improve their material status. It's up to us as parliament, at the ministry, on all of us to do something to make their status better. The moment their status improves will have more power, power and energy to participate more positively in this education system, because it is very important to us. In addition to education and education, healthcare is also one of the pillars of each country. We have to try to keep those two pillars tight, so our country doesn't fall into the abyss. I don't want to say anything special about the members of the law that are proposed for a change, but I can't help but look back at what had the most echoes and the most criticism by the opposition. These are professional master studies. So I don't have to say anything stupid, I'm going to read which countries have professional master studies. One of the speakers said it was a few countries, and it was highly developed, the Netherlands, Germany, Finland, Austria, Ireland, Poland, Estonia, Portugal, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Montenegro since 2003, although it has been only a candidate, even for them, these studies are not called master but applied master studies, then Switzerland, which is not an EU member. On that road that the professional community, or high vocational schools, was trying to get these master studies, we received even one remark from them that no one in front of the conference was known to participate in the public debate. It is our failure and our shame. I have to tell my colleagues that it's not true that everyone was against, here's counterpart Atlagic here, I'm here, even had a discussion with my colleague Domazette about the need to have master studies, with his colleague Atlagic saying that in the accreditation process he should take care of who gets credentials so that he can lead those studies. On this road, vocational schools received support from the following relevant European institutions, the European Association of Higher Education Institutions, the Union of European Students and the European Parliament. I'm not going to read it now, I guess on the day we have the amendments we'll have a little more time and need for that. I can say that in the case of good practice in EU countries where these professional master studies are already being implemented, it can be concluded with high reliability that the introduction of vocational studies in Serbia will be good for students, good for the economy, good for the state. At the same time, this will allow Serbia to harmonise its vocational higher education with a system of vocational higher education in EU countries, i.e. to address the problem of recognising diplomas of professional master studies acquired in any of the 12 EU countries, as well as in non-EU countries where vocational master studies are carried out. We and in this bill have one section that refers to the nostrification of diplomas, so this is also another advantage. In order not to spend more time, I can finally tell you that these amendments and amendments to the law at this point are very positive and that the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8366	Since authorised representatives have all used their rights, we are now moving on to the list of registered speakers. No breaks. I am obeying the order of the President of the Assembly. The first on the list is Zlata Đeric. Excuse me, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8367	Dear MPs, this has been quite a contentious debate and regardless of our intention to wait for all exhibitors to say their remarks and ask their questions, so to address as a representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, I think we could now, after this first natural part of the exhibition, answer some questions and comment on some proposals. Of course, there's going to be more information. Most of these things you were talking about, what you suggested, what you asked were definitely topics on the task force that worked on the draft of this law. One of the MPs asked – what are your proposals that could not enter the bill? I'm not sure that's exactly how it was formulated. Our ideas and our aspirations, something we stood for, didn't actually enter the bill, but it certainly wasn't because there was no support for our proposal, but because the legal framework is such that it doesn't allow us to cross some nice ideas into members of the law. What we are particularly sorry or wrong about is that we have not succeeded in overcoming the good ideas of members of the law is that in a better way, the Commission's independence for accreditation and quality-checking is ensured. It's not about support, it's about the fact that at this point, it's not about establishing an independent body because of time limits, because of the ban on employment, financial effects, etc. It is not possible to create an agency at this time to do quality accreditation and check, but it is clear that it is one of the most important things to be found in the new Higher Education Act. That body has done a great job so far, very responsible. If in some way, as you say, we've encouraged them to go one step further and now with more courage to direct objections to some higher education institutions, we're satisfied that, if it has contributed to the quality that others have become more critical, that's all right. That's why we have to be satisfied, but there's a law that's valid and we have to apply the law. We have not changed this proposal, i.e. we do not propose this way to change the way in which the accreditation committee will be financed. The accreditation committee has been financed from the budget for two years, only it has not written so in the previous, or now applicable law. We just want what the law says to fit the real situation. Of course we expect negative reactions or we can say that we fear the negative reactions of Enkva, but we also don't think they'll like it if we still have the practice of paying out of the budget and that something else is written in the law. So what kind of message would we send to international associations if we just show that we work in the way we allegedly guarantee independence and still pay out of the budget? So it's our job to bring it into line with the law, but it's also our job to make an effort bigger all together to build an agency that will do it even better. As far as I can tell, they're working more and more hard at this point than they were before. So this circle of accreditation has sharper criteria, they're louder. We all have reasons to be satisfied with the way the Accreditation Commission works. We've been in charge of them all together before to ensure the existence of that accreditation agency or whatever its name is. It's a task ahead of us. At this point, this is the most correct and actually the only possible solution that has ever been. If one of the MPs has a rescue amendment that will show us that there is a solution that we have not seen, of course we are completely open and we will be more than happy to accept such an amendment. You also mentioned a master of professional studies as a failure in this law. We don't think it's a failure. We see so many countries in the environment and Europe have masters of professional studies. It is clear to us that professional studies in our country do not have the right quality because they do not have a good enough relationship with the economy. Real vocational studies must be much better connected to the economy. We're not going to change that by making some changes in the law, we're going to change it because we better connect them to the economy. When the economy is stronger and allows more people from vocational schools to spend more time in factory halls or wherever they need to or at some other organizations, at that point we will have better vocational studies. Why Master of Professional Studies? In the strategy for the development of education, RS stands this type and this level of education. It's already scheduled. For us whatever they think is individual about some solutions in the Strategy, the Strategy is binding for us. We need to implement that strategy. Will this master program, the master of professional studies, produce anything unquality? It depends on what the standards for such a study program are. At this point there are no standards for any master's study programme and that's something that will be the task of the Higher Education Council. What we don't want is for the law to be an obstacle that if someone makes a good program to make it happen. The strategy foresees it, it is ours to make it possible by law that, if someone does a good program, it does. Whether or not they will do it, it may remain empty, but the law allows and no one will be able to say it – it was the legislators who prevented us from being exposed to something clearly as a good idea or a bad idea, however, in the education strategy, that we could not realize it. No, we'll open that possibility, and the standards for that study program are something that follows and I'm fully convinced that those who do this will take care of it and that we'll only have the highest quality programs. There was also a question as to why the Accreditation Commission does not have permanent control over what is met with the conditions for accreditation, but only works under exceptional circumstances. Let's do the same thing we just said. It is necessary to create the capacity of such an institution to do so. It's not without reason that so long it's been accredited. It's a long job, it's a hard job for which some technical preconditions are not created again, we're going back to the story of the information system, which if it worked better, which is one of our priority tasks, if it worked better then a faster and accreditation commission would do it, and then it would do more checking to meet the requirements for accreditation. At this point capacity is such that the verification can be done occasionally, in exceptional cases. They're doing it. So all of their capacities do that. There are some things, for example, like a systematic review, where they tell us that I need you every six months to come for this or that. We don't have time every six months, or if they tell us everything's okay, don't come in a year, we don't come in for a year. It might be good to go more often, but there is no appropriate capacity. It also mentioned the issue of inspection, why the inspection works in some cases when we propose one thing to this draft law, and the inspection works and requires the abolition of, for example, clinical assistants even though we propose it to this law. We're going back to the same thing again. There's a law that's valid. We apply the applicable law. As long as this law is not passed and until the sublegal acts are passed, this law will not be applied. As a result, it is vital that even today we apply the law, even though this new law may be adopted tomorrow. The inspection is doing a very difficult job. A few educational inspections do hard work, where they receive, in the first 100 days of the government, if you might have looked at the report, they had more than 1,000 interventions. For such a small number of people, it's quite large, even if they just wrote a report. As you know, in the previous period, six out-of-state schools of higher education institutions were closed on the orders of inspectors. The inspection's doing its job and it's working. They've determined for six out-of-state departments that they're unsatisfactory, they've lost their license to work, they're closed. As much as we have a cry for the work of an educational inspection, they're doing their job and the results are being seen. I hear comments about how we successfully intimidated some high school institutions. I don't think it's our job to scare anyone. We would like to act preventively and not have it, but if that intimidation results, there is an educational inspection giving that result. Anyway, all of this stuff that you've been discussing has been on the agenda, and we want to further analyze each of these things and make a solid basis that will allow us to make a whole new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8368	On what basis, Mr. Stojadinovic? Sign up so I can hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8369	I don't think the minister understood a few of my comments, so I'd like two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8370	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8371	I don't have a right? Okay, I'll use that right. It's best when it's hot, forget it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8372	You can go through the discussion, since you're otherwise registered as a debater. Then you can look back, and now you have no right. I understand, but according to the Rules of Procedure, you know. Thank you very much. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8373	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, it is a good thing that the National Education Strategy, which is a framework within which all the laws of education must be passed and must move. There's always talk of reform, no matter what it means. Let me tell you, when it comes to education, reform is a process that is lasting, which never interrupts, it only at certain times might change some of its points. A process and reform is a lasting process in education. So we realized this proposal to amend and supplement the law that is before us, and I really must say that we as a parliamentary group have carefully looked at all the members who have proposed to us, compared with what they in the basic law, in the laws that change, and we have found nothing more serious, except, as I said, the burdens on the deadlines that can stand, can be accepted, but will not essentially change the intention and purpose of the law, except that they may be earned at the expense of time. I will refer to several members of the amendment and the addition of the law, for example, to Article 2 which provides for what we think is extremely positive, that a member of the commission can be resolved before the end of the term of office, the point 4 that reads is added – unless, without justifiable reason, the accreditation procedure is terminated within the prescribed time limit in the area for which a member of the commission is in charge, i.e. now a member of the commission can be dismissed if it does not work. It is indeed a real and very acceptable reason for someone's resolution, because all of us in Serbia's political life, as it is, have seen people who come to certain places and have the only, very easy and beautiful task, to receive some sort of apity or pay, and to remain behind in this work effect. This is what the law predicted, and that's what we noticed right at the beginning, extremely commendable about it. Also, in that same article, I welcome this to the public who has been informed, informed and delivered the report to the National Assembly. So from now on, the law and the National Assembly will be informed of the commission's work. This is what will contribute significantly to the public, responsibilities and seriousness of the Commission's work. In Article 3 of the same law, what we considered to be a qualitative shift, that is, Article 3 refers to Article 14 following Article 3 of Article 4, which reads – in the case of accreditation of the study programme, doctoral studies at least one reviewer must be a teacher, scientist or artist employed in higher education, or a scientific institution from abroad that meets the conditions of mentoring that study programme in accordance with the standards set out in Article 11. This is a serious qualitative shift that brings this law closer to what really needs to be a modern law on higher education. In that same article, we have submitted an amendment where, according to the appeal of the 10th article, the National Council decides within 90 days of the day of appeal. We suggested that that deadline be 30 days. We really believe that at this point in Serbia, the scale of business can allow for a much shorter period, i.e. a 30-day deadline is quite justified. In Article 8, a syntagm that I have always insisted on with all the legal projects is changed, and I love that someone who has responded in time, says, in point 3 of the word "who can be and" is replaced by the words "who is". Whenever we see in the legislative proposal "who can be" we immediately remember that something does not and does not have to be. Here, the legislator recognized this right legislative criterion and in time corrected what had been a lack in the previous law. It's small, but it's important. We also put the amendment in the same article, proposed an amendment relating to -- a copy of the content stored in the university's repository is required to deliver within three months of the defence to the central repository run by the ministry. We also think it's enough one month to deliver such a document. So, in Article 15, we also have a serious qualitative shift for the better, where post 6 is added to the 7th item – the criteria for determining the level of tuition and the decision on the level of tuition are available to the public on the official website of the higher school institution. Especially this, the criteria for determining the level of tuition. That's what's always been problematic in the public that's always been discussed a lot of doubt, inconceivables. This is something that will really contribute to quality work and quality public information about the work of a high school institution. What we consider to be a further quality shift from the adoption of this law to many members proposed, not that we have no objection but we are extremely pleased with them, that is, as far as teachers of metricus are concerned. I think these members who are being arranged for the recognition, I.D., of high school papers issued abroad have indeed been arranged. I think it's also a serious and quality shift. Then the employment of associates outside the working relationship is also well regulated by this bill. We needed professional master studies and it was well done. It is likely that the practice and life of the law will require further changes, but I have already said reforming education and education is a lasting process and it needs to be constantly improved, perfected by what we see in practice that it is not perfect to the end. So that's what I was talking about in my presentation as the authorized president of my group that we need to produce those generations that will have knowledge, ability and skills and the desire to change Serbia better, and that is precisely one of the opportunities for such a time just to be produced for all of us. That's what our primary task is. We're pleased with the proposed additions to the law. I said if our amendments are not adopted, and I think you will have hearing and adoption, because you are indeed well-intentioned, New Serbia will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8374	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8375	Thank you. The situation in Serbia's higher education is not so bad, there are also good professors and good programs and good students, but it is part of a higher education that has nothing to do with the state, nor with the ministry, but it is people who from their personal initiatives and their personal ambitions and knowledge want to do something good for students or students who want to really do something for their future. What the state does in higher education in the last decade and more is very bad. I must admit that I expected a lot from a new minister who appeared as a non-party figure, as a man who said there are many solutions that are already ready to be activated, send them to parliament to adopt it, of course with a majority who otherwise votes for everything that comes from the government. I expected to get one of those laws today about amending the Law on Higher Education, but that didn't happen. There's a few good things in it. It's an acceleration of the nosetriification of foreign diplomas, a little more public in the work, a little higher speed in accreditation, but these are technical things, essentially nothing important happened. What are the problems of Serbian higher education, which is corruption, incompetence of a part of the teacher, plagiarisms that have surfaced in the past few months, and of course there have been before and that they are not the first, and I'm afraid it's not going to be the last. I think these are basic problems that are not even touched by this bill. Obsolete programs in the good part of the university that practically do not offer some useful knowledge to their students. I expected you to at least give in this bill a response to what is today a topic in Serbia, regardless of all attempts to push it under the carpet, which is a plagiarism issue. Of course, I'm not going to mention Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is accused of plagiarism, I don't want to talk about the NBS governor who graduated from Pristina in March 1999, as much as I remember that time was bombing and we don't know where she was doctoring. I don't want to mention the Podparol of the Dragica Nikolic Foundation... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8376	Mr. Zivkovic, please speak of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8377	First of all, I'm talking about the law. The Podparola of the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, which also... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8378	Mr. Zivkovic, please return to the agenda. I haven't read the names you're talking about anywhere in the bill. Here you go. Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8379	And what power do you have to assess what I want to say at the end of this sentence? Is it forbidden to mention these names? Is there a law on the protection of these names? They are an example of the biggest problem that exists today in Serbian higher education. This is not a Megatrend exam, but this is the highest home in Serbia and you will have to hear what the MPs think. Anyway, I don't want to mention those names, I said, I don't want to mention Mark Đurić, who says he graduated from Belgrade Law School, from the Kosovo Office, which is not true, at least it's not seen on the college's website. I don't want to talk about Mitcha Megatrand, I'll talk about it... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8380	Mr. Zivkovic, I'm warning you one last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8381	I'll talk about it, since the minister asked us as MPs to help him create the law, and to find a rescue solution, which he himself said earlier, to fix this law. Of course, the two of us do not have that delusion that we are rescuers, but we have offered an amendment to Article 1 that is changing and said – that the activities that exercise the rights of the 1st member's position must be public and open to citizens and citizens, with full respect for the principles and rules of academic integrity. The section behind the score, "with full respect for the principles and rules of academic integrity", is the first dam in preventing the Serbian higher education cancer, which is plagiarisation. I'm sure you know what academic honesty means. I don't think you need me to explain it and not just know it, but own it, so it's easier for you on that side. Here's a chance to adopt a good suggestion of the opposition, no matter what we're an opposition. I think you're in the way of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8382	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8383	To encourage you, an amendment has already been adopted that we proposed before a session, so nothing collapsed and everything in Serbia remained the way it was, not very well, but there was no worse. You said just now that... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8384	Mr. Zivkovic, I have to hang up because the time has been set for your presentation as People's MP is up. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What do you mean? You're entitled to five minutes. You've started one part of the discussion. It's been over three minutes. I interrupted your presentation and allowed you to speak for another three minutes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: There were minutes and 30 seconds when you interrupted me. ) You can see for yourself the stenographic notes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: This is not seen from the stenographic notes, it is seen from the video. I can tell. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: There is a video. I'm warning you... Mr. Zivkovic, if you prove that you spoke less than five minutes, I will excuse you publicly. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I prove it to you? ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It's a pigsty. I'm sorry, buddy Granny. Mr. Zivkovic, I beg you... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Don't beg me. Go to church and pray. ) Mr. Zivkovic, in accordance with Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I give you a warning. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8385	The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, is violated, member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I know there's one problem in our society, and it's not the only thing, that everyone understands everything, that we have six million football selectors, that we have three million ministers, that we have... And everyone understands everything. And as long as everyone understands everything and everything, we're gonna be like a society to be on a treadmill, and we're gonna be wasting our energy, and we're gonna be standing in a place. It would be a little inappropriate for me, who, according to my profession, was a graduate engineering engineer at the University of Belgrade in 1996, to talk about doctoral dissertations in the year, even from the profession I finished. It's inappropriate. With what authority, with what right and yet to point out and say that this is a bad thing? That's why I think until we start doing our jobs, each one in their own domain, each one according to their own professional preparation, as a society, we'll be wandering in the dark. That's why you, Mr. Chairman, had to interrupt the previous speaker, to ask him for such difficult findings as to which expert equipment he qualified to be able to talk about any work, anyone. Otherwise, this is the worst abuse of the National Assembly, mandate, immunity, anything and interference in business and in what is not understood and what is not qualified to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8386	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think the member you advertised was hurt. I interrupted the speaker, warned him to return to the agenda theme, and that's why there was a dispute between me and him, because at that moment I turned off the microphone and reset the time foreseen for the presentation of the MP. This second part of the story, to ask him about his expertise, I don't intend to, it's his thing, etc. Any MP can use his right as he thinks it should, by staying on the subject of the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8387	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that he has just been injured by article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which, among other things, the speaker can speak only about the point of the agenda under investigation. I would like to ask you, Mr Arsic, that if you have not already warned Mr Babic that the Serbian Parliament is not an expert body, so when we have proposals for a law concerning health care to come and report that only doctors speak, and when the proposal for a law on higher education comes to speak only science doctors or graduate experts, the Assembly is, gentlemen, a political institution within which every MP, a MP, represents the interests of a number of citizens who voted for it or some who may not have voted for it. There is therefore no such limit on the subject to which the MP will speak. Dear gentlemen, I have doctored here in the field of political science. There's no theme in this assembly that I haven't called to discuss. I consulted with people who were professional, they gave me suggestions, I asked for logic, and I tried to offer good arguments every time. Dear Mr. Arsic, I object to you, and I think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, which is why you did not just warn Mr. Babic that Mr. Zoran Zivkovic has the right as a National MP to speak of every item of the agenda and that is the only appropriate behavior in this assembly. Thank you, dear Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8388	My colleague Pavicevic, I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I let my colleague, Zoran Babić, end up presenting his vision of the application of the Rules of Procedure and also in his reply, which he did not ask the Assembly to declare specifically in the voting day, he may have repeated in some other words exactly what you said. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8389	Mr. Chairman, the most severe violation and abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if Mr. Pavicevic advertised the Rules of Procedure for Mr. Zivkovic's speech? When is the breach of the Rules of Procedure related to the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the subject of the agenda has nothing to do with it. I understand that Mr. Pavicevic also realized in what error Mr. Zivkovic had spent five minutes in vain and that he had warned you about violating the Rules of Procedure in the time used by Mr. Zivkovic. As far as rights are concerned, of course everyone has the right in this National Assembly to talk about every subject, absolutely, and there is no question of right. This is a democratic country, a government that is democratic, and I don't see any questions raised here, but what it is and what I'm going to say again is inappropriate, it's bad when a selection of Serbia's football team is putting analphabets into football, when someone's work is going to be talked about by someone who hasn't written or done any work in their life. With what right and with what authority can he say that is not good or bad? Only someone who has done such works in life, announced, worked to qualify, to be at that professional level and at that professional level. This way everyone will say whatever they want, even though it's not his profession or anything. This is the subject – giving an assessment. Not everyone has the right to give grades. So why do teachers go to school, why do they go to school? Why are there colleges for teachers, teachers, teachers if anyone could grade other people's work?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8390	Mr. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8391	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 103(4) The MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the action of the President and shall explain what the infringements are involved in. Mr. Babic did not specify which member you have violated by your actions. (Zoran Babic, from the place: You are not listening.) You weren't here. What you're saying now, Mr. Granny, keep it to yourself. Nor did he explain what that injury consisted of. Instead, he told us what was appropriate to who to do. Mr. Babić, we also find it inappropriate for a graduate lawyer to deal with the level of aflatoxin in milk, privatising sports clubs, attracting investors, controlling security services, so we don't use Parliament time to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8392	Replication or violation of the rules of procedure, colleague Babic? Here you go, buddy Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8393	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Members and 105 and 104 and 106. I'm sorry my colleague wasn't present, if physically she was, then at least spiritually not, but I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. As far as the graduate lawyer is concerned, the same graduate lawyer has the highest confidence of Serbian citizens. That graduate lawyer has the support he won in the election. This graduate lawyer has a job to deal with all segments of our society and he does, and therefore such support and has, but it is bad and not only a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is a violation of all democratic flows, when another professor has all the power in Vojvodina and only 6% of the support of citizens of the same Vojvodina. Now, it's a violation of both the Rules of Procedure and democratic fluids.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8394	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Each MP has the right to explain himself and to make some observations. Do you want to vote on the day of the vote so the Assembly can plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8395	Thank you, Your Honor. By listening to some of the debaters on the other side, I can't help but remember one of Andric's famous sentences, I'm not going to quote it until the end so that someone doesn't characterise me as vulgar, but he did say it well -- there comes a time when a smart man will shut up, and some others will talk, and God will make me rich. Whoever wants to read that line of Andric's, that's fine. I hope some of them know it. Why am I quoting this and why am I saying this? You know, even when this issue was about doctorate, no one wanted to say that the people who allegedly analyzed this doctorate, allegedly the controversial, respected interior minister, were people who were a question of academicity whether they could do it, because one of them didn't even doctorate, and it gave himself the right to already evaluate someone else's doctoral work. I'm someone who's in doctoral studies, by the way. I'm working very hard on it. I have to say, and I'm really going to be honest with a respected colleague who spoke a little while ago as a debater, and I don't blame him for not finishing college. The diplomas themselves are not certain that you do not know what you have gained in life, although I have to admit I am not a communist, but Lenin's sentence – to learn, learn and just learn, I really want to always apply, because indeed, a man learns while he is alive. After all, many of those who are today challenging someone's diplomas or whether someone has a college, so many of them swore to Joseph Brozo, and he was officially a machinesmith, you'll agree. Well, no one was bothered at the time to say that it was the greatest son of our people and how it could lead us into self-government socialism in the best way possible. It doesn't mean anything to diplomas by itself if you don't perfect yourself. Getting a degree isn't worth five bucks if you guys don't move on through your life. Are you going to be professionally perfected, whether you're going to be scientific, whether you're going to be practical, that's your choice, but there's a big problem with the graduate students, which is – let's finish college and put our hands down and expect a job, especially in the public service, which is very wrong. I have to admit, Mr. Verbich, I would disagree with you when you said that the Bologna Process has made some progress. I was personally against the introduction of the Bologna Declaration, not because it's bad, but because we were unprepared here for something like that and she made a total mess of our university, because we introduced her back. Today we have what we have. We have to accept that. What you're making today is a very good law. I haven't heard any fundamental remarks about something like this. First of all, you're setting up order here to know what college is. We had no idea what college was, I mean, we knew it formally, but everyone here declared that they could give you a degree. They were really weird criteria how someone could get a degree. We have the manager's surplus here. We don't know what to do with managers, and the economy never gets worse. Not to talk about these PRs or I don't know what, it's really more scandalous and scandalous, if you really want me to be completely honest. About when you didn't have any party footage to hire, come on, he says – you're going to be a PR at that firm. Then he's some PR, a marketing expert, he really advises someone who's professional in this business, what he's going to tell the public, which, of course, you'll agree, was completely out of his mind. That's why, among other things, just because we didn't know what college was, this circus with diplomats was created. You here now, with this law and it's very commendable, introduce clear criteria of what a diploma is, what a master's degree, what a doctor's degree is after all. What's most important is that they simply have to exist permanently in electronic form. I see the university must always have that. I see you've defined it by law. You can't cheat on the university anymore, you can't cheat on the state, you can't cheat on anyone, it's always out of sight. There's no way you're hiding it anywhere. What she has is a certificate to give a doctoral degree, I'm talking about this institution, and I see it's a good thing that you've introduced her to keep her checked out, all those institutions, higher education, they always have to have doctoral dissertation in mind, and she will, of course, stand at our university, which is very, very commendable. We have a general here, Mr. Verbich, a big problem with the system itself, what we really want. We have as much soul as you want a lawyer, an economist, which is very nice and commendable, but now to ask who he is, for example. You've written down nuclear physics or something, so on the fingers of one hand you can count them, and maybe even no one. I don't know, you're a physicist, I guess you know better, but we have a complete disproportionateity for certain professions. It's just that people don't want to sign it up. Then we have one surplus, as we just said, various managers, okay economists and lawyers, but the state has to determine what it needs, what we want to school. Now, I'm afraid that we're also creating chaos in that segment, and I believe that if you know each other in the morning, this is a very good law, and I believe that you're going to fix that area. What's a big problem for all of our students and what you'd have to settle, it's a practice. I graduated law school, and I didn't see what the lawsuit looked like for my schooling. You have lawyers today who finish college, never one absolutely axem law they have to have when they're prepping the exam they haven't seen. You don't know what a lawsuit looks like, what a lawsuit is written. Practical teaching is catastrophic. You have as much as you want, like, at technical schools, even doctorates who have doctored on something, for example. The question is, did they see that device in their lives? Someone's going to banalize it, so they're going to say -- you have people with a degree in electrical engineering college, the question is do they know how the solution was put together, because in practice they didn't see it. Of course you don't, the electrician does, but you can't exactly make a doctor of science, and he's practically nothing. I think practical teaching is something that needs to be introduced to our colleges as much as possible. We have functionally incompetent students. Now to throw them into practice, they have no idea. Here, let's say, lawyers have a terrible problem, when they graduate from college, they're interns in the law firm, they wear more burek, which someone would say, in the law firm as interns, than they do something. When a lawyer tells him to go, write me that lawsuit, he has no idea he's going to file a lawsuit, because he didn't see it in college. You have to fix it and introduce much more practical teaching. That's a big flaw. Also, as far as foreign diplomas are concerned, it's very important and I must commend you for your nostrification. We've had a bunch of different experts coming here, they say they finished Harvard, Yale. I have no idea what they're done with. Then, when you scratch a little bit in your biography, the question is, are they even done? They say, "We've finished some course at Harvard." Now it's a question of whether it could be considered a Harvard degree or if they were working on a course somewhere abroad. This is where this is interrupted. You can't fake yourself anymore, and we've had as many examples as you want. We had an example of the secretary of state a few years ago at the Ministry of Culture, who was an interpreter for Norwegian language, and among other things, she said she was a great biologist, I don't know what she was a specialist for. In the end, it was found that she had never even finished that college, had a high school. This stops it. You have to show a clear degree in what you've finished, and that's the only way to get a confession like that. Otherwise, you won't be able to perform a variety of state functions by falsely pretending to be some kind of expert, who knows where. Finally, as far as private universities are concerned, I can see that there is a big cry here, but otherwise the way they were in private colleges and how they worked, I've talked about it a little while before, and I'm glad to see what order here can be considered a college, but, calling out to certain private colleges by those who allowed them to develop and raise them, so if you really want, in the election campaign presidential candidate options that are now most opposed, he gave a lecture at one of those colleges, I'm talking about "Megatrand" – at least they have the right to say something about it. These colleges, as they are, and the people call them "jigi bau" colleges, are exactly what they allow. This is where the order is now introduced. But I also have to tell you that I'm not an opponent of private colleges, on the contrary. Both Harvard and Berkeley University and Yale are private universities. It's not bad to have a private college, but it's an important criterion, what college is, who gives you a university degree. And that's what we missed. If you know each other in the morning, I believe that you and your team are gonna figure this out. This is good. There's some order in place, and I have to congratulate you on this. I only feel bad that, however, what our people said – it is true that fish stink from the head, but perhaps it was necessary to start from primary and secondary education and only then come to high school, but this is really good and I believe that you will also arrange these other areas for the benefit of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8396	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8397	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Minister Verbic, I will begin my exhibition with parts of the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, because it is probably for me, as well as for you, the Holy Scriptures. This is what should be the idea of a leader of the government, of this Parliament, and of what we should treat. Mr. Vukic said in his exposé – this government will reform the education system. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Yes. I hear someone shouting - yes. I ask only – when? Then he said, "We will have education first." One of the assignments is to facilitate the return of our experts from abroad. Mr. Verbich, you came from the profession, in some ways you worked in science and you should follow these goals. You became known to the general public when you very bravely supported the Prime Minister when he asked you – did you ever see anything stupider than this argument that some work is plagiarism? It's about the work of one of your colleagues. In this way, you entered the public and began to realize these objectives. How are things, Mr. Verbich, in practice? Someone said it was a wonderful academic debate today. It is a wonderful academic debate, and it may indeed be a pleasure to listen to people who work in science and talk about topics that are very important. Among other things, the situation in practice, you should know that, Mr. Verbic, if you were familiar with it, you were working, is that education is the last place. I mean, there's a dead race between education and health care. So instead of in the first place, it's in the last place. You can see this by the percentages of the separation for science and education, but also by the state in that area, as well as by the people who work in education and science, as well as by the social position that they have and by the salary you have reduced and you are preparing to further reduce it. What is the state of education also shows the fact that you did nothing on the return of young experts from abroad, and that was your next goal from this exposé. Tell me, please, the name and last name of the young scientist whom you brought back from abroad to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I can list a lot of the names of my neighbors, friends, and so on, their children, who left the country because they don't see the perspective, because you're simply doing your job very badly. You don't get along in a job that you've got citizens' trust...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8398	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to return to the agenda. Here, this time I interrupted you, we'll refuse your exposure. I'm glad you remembered the Prime Minister's exposés.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8399	I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8400	And wrote it down. Of course, I'm glad you're quoting him, but the government's election is over. You have laws before you and I beg you to talk about them. So, you're talking about laws that have been in force so far and that have just led to this situation that you're talking about right now, so I'm asking you to go back to the discussion, so let's see if, in your opinion, it's going to improve the state of education or get worse? I agree that many experts have left Serbia, but this is due to some earlier laws that we now want to correct. If that's where your discussion was directed, then I violated the Rules of Procedure for interrupting you. But please return to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8401	Mr. Arsic, thank you for your instructions. Could I get them in writing, so I could stick to your instructions? There's no need to turn yourself back on. Thank you. Here, how is this law going to affect science, scientific workers, people who are in education? It will be reflected so that education and science will hold the enthusiasm of people working in education and science, not measures by state authorities. Someone mentioned that a little while ago. Only that enthusiasm holds people in science and education. Neither pay nor position nor anything provided by Mr Verbic, or his ministry, nor by the Serbian government. That's how this law treats science and education. There are no new measures here, encouraging measures that could enable and give hope to people to stay in the country. How much, Mr. Verbic, through this law and the laws that you intend to bring, have you made available to ordinary citizens, or students? What did you do that poor kid could go to colleges and colleges? You've done a lot for these more schools, through the measures you're giving to this government, to make their inflow of students as large as possible, a financial inflow. Some today legitimately defended the interests of high schools when talking about master studies at high schools. There is a serious danger, Mr. Verbic, of these master studies at high schools. They were not free colleagues to point out the confusion that these master studies would lead to. Employers cannot cope with all the names, titles that have produced the laws so far. One example. The person who graduated from high school, the nurse, and graduated from high school in business, her calling was a high-sister. She's about to be master of a high-sister. What's the relationship between her and the doctor? Whose calling will be more? Are you responding to the challenges of this law? That's what we said was confusion that this law would create confusion in this respect. You have not mentioned in one word the second act that we are considering today, which is Horizons 2020, possible exports for a lack of funds that are not in your budget. Not a single word. Did you give us an answer? Did you create conditions for our scientists or people who work in colleges so they could participate in these Horizon projects at all? There are data that a small number of people have even met the conditions to participate. You haven't even given us answers because we're not in any international projects. You have not given us answers because you are taking away your independence from the accreditation committee. You can't tell me that by law that you're abolishing the support of the accreditation committee that you're leaving this committee with any independence. It is a condition for them to be members of some international organisations, but in practice it seems, even if I have such information from people working in the Accreditation Commission. That they, from their means, pay for their own secretaries. Is that true, Mr. Verbich? When they abolished that sub-account in some way they emptied it before this law, they no longer have their own resources, and what is their independence? What's their independence about getting credentials to some college? When they depend on the state, depends on whether you or the prime minister or someone else will give them funds for the maid or secretary? Is that even in one country, Mr. Verbich? Have you tried to achieve these goals of the Prime Minister in his exposé with that law? On the other hand, which you guarantee, you say – with the accreditation of doctoral study programs at least one peer must be a teacher, scientist or artist employed by a higher education scientific institution from abroad. What do we get by that? What does it mean from abroad? Does that raise quality? Not to list countries from abroad from which these experts could be and not raise quality. Well, we know in what scientific journals our people are forced to publish papers to get a calling choice, for some countries we've never even heard of. Well, with this formal fulfillment of what's abroad, so you haven't said from the EU, from some countries that we know have a certain level of knowledge. Even if it's not a guarantee. We know what happened to that doctorate. There were some people who didn't even see that doctorate, they were signed there. So, Mr Verbić, I invite you to talk a little more with your colleagues that you have worked with so far and to see that the state of education is in very poor shape and that this law does not meet the conditions of repairing the situation in education and that you try to fight within the Government for the position of people in education in an adequate manner or that as your colleague Krstic, you resign and thank the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8402	Ten minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Since I interrupted you while you were talking. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8403	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad the MPs are calling for Mr. Vukic's exposés. That's what we wanted. That's why this exposure is large, which is why it takes care of every segment of our society, which is why reading the exposé here in this National Assembly took three hours, because we didn't want to follow government practice until 2012 when the exposé was on one duoster and forget about it at the moment when it was read, and it was no longer valid. It was just a form of respect and exposure. No, I don't. This is the first exposé, a serious exposé in Serbia's recent history of parliamentaryism. It's the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. And I'm glad, and I need you, and remember by the end of the term. That's what we want. I don't want to be dishonest. People were leaving our country in the '90s. People have been leaving our country since 2000. I'm sure there are young people in this country who are still thinking and want to go beyond the borders of our country. It is a process that is difficult for our society, but that is why we do not stop this process for four months of this government because it is extremely hypocritical and populist of Mr. Vesenović. It is irresponsible because he supported the budgets and voted in favour of the budgets in which 94% of the funds from the education budget are allocated for years, leaving for the salaries of educators, and only 6% for the promotion of education. I think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8404	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8405	Is that how we expect something from enlightenment? Now someone who took part in the degradation of education says, "Why don't you bring back young people?" Don't let us do populist things. As for young people, we want to create an environment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8406	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8407	Member of the 103rd, Mr. Chairman. It's becoming unclear, foggy and mysterious, on what basis you gave Mr. Babic the right to a replica. Just because the previous speaker before Mr Babic did not mention in any word either the party, either personally or offensively, in an incomprehensible sense, and you gave Mr Babic the right to a replica he exceeded by 21 seconds of your will. In which we have again listened to some explanations that really no longer mean anything to the citizens of Serbia. Is it possible that the basis for giving a replica is the mention of an infallible, half-breeding, magnificent prime minister? Can we every time we mention it expect a party reaction in the Serbian Parliament? Is he the president of the party in this situation or the president of the Serbian government? If we cannot mention the Serbian Prime Minister, then tell us to change the Rules of Procedure and write that the Prime Minister must not be mentioned. I do not understand the basis by which Mr Babic was given the right to reply, because I know that no one on the opposition side would get the right to a replica, in a situation where someone here, and often the president of our party or NDS, is used. There's no way he'd get a line. This is one obvious inconsistency. I know you know I'm right. I also know you won't confirm it, but it's up to me to point to an injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8408	Mr. Stefanovic, a colleague, Babic, received the same right to the replica you received as chairman of the DS Parliament Club when the mayor of Belgrade was mentioned in 2012, 2013. The same base is applied, the same criterion is applied. A colleague mentioned the prime minister and his good grace or goodwill to provide funds for the Commission's accreditation work. I think Mr. Babic has acquired the right to a replica because neither mercy nor goodwill are applied when the state is run, but the law applies, especially the Budget Law. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8409	Mr. Arsic, I really followed your instructions on how to speak. I'm surprised I caused Mr. Babic's replica, but I wasn't talking about someone's time, 1995, 1996. I tried to talk about the current time and talk about the current minister who's been here for four months. But he's not here for four months, Mr. Babic. He's not here for four months. You gentlemen have been here for two and a half years. Your ministers are here as they come on tape. Two and a half years you've been here, gentlemen. The state of education is getting worse. We are talking about the time now and you are when you were running to be in power in Serbia, when you were running to have a prime minister said it would be better, not worse than the period you're talking about right now, but the situation is getting worse. They've never been underpaid in the last 10 years in education and science. There has never been a separation for science lower than the previous period. The institution's independence has never been lower. So we're talking about the time of the present and I'd like you to say what will happen after the adoption of this law that we consider to be a small step maybe forward, but not enough to fix. To take a step forward, I'm afraid we'll tap in place or head back if we don't change things quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8410	Right on line, colleague Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8411	Mr. Chairman, there are different times. The time until 2012 when governments and politicians worked for themselves, not for citizens and governments after 2012, after the change in 2012 that they work for citizens and not for themselves. This if someone listened to him come to the National Assembly for the first time and hears Mr. Veselinovic, who knows what he would think. You know, Mr. Veselinović, you keep forgetting that the election was on 16 March 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8412	Mr. Granny, don't make a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8413	Mr. Vesenovic forgets that the elections were held on 16 March 2014, that in those elections in March 2014, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia came out, that they had defined themselves among the political options they were satisfied and not satisfied, so some who acted as Mr. Vesenovic had now remained below the censorship, and Mr. Vesenovic somehow managed to enter this parliament, and those who work for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are working in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, in which people in Serbia trust, have confidence because we both in the pre-election campaign and after the pre-election campaign and after the formation of the government talked about reforms, talked about the painful things that we must go through due to the irresponsibility of policies implemented by 2012, received the support of half of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Then who lives in a bad place? Mr. Veselinovic or the citizens of Serbia? I believe Mr. Veselinović and his colleagues live worse. You know, there are no official cars, no travels, no journals, no boast, no all those things that characterized power until 2012, but that's why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said what they thought about both SNS and the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. What they said, they said in the election. That's all they say. You can be satisfied or dissatisfied, it's the only court, the only thing that's measured, the only thing that's seen, and who's satisfied or not supposed to tang anyone in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8414	Mr. Granny, thank you. Right on line, Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8415	The privileges may be better off if I don't talk this time. Is that right, Mr. Arsic, about Mr. Babic's privileges and my privileges? I've never had an official car in my previous term, not even in this term. I don't understand what's going on. I don't understand. I don't understand
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8416	I have to interrupt you because you say so. My colleague Babic doesn't even have an official car. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8417	I'm not sure about Mr. Babic. I didn't say Mr. Babic had an official car, but I didn't have one, and Mr. Babic said I had an official car. So I didn't have an official car. On the other hand, some parties in the previous period had more support, you have to admit, from you and always remind you when you say you have 50% of the citizens' support, and the citizens live badly. There have been periods in our recent history that some political figures have had more support than you have. You know how Serbia stayed behind them. Do not measure the quality of life of citizens and the improvement of Serbia with your rating. They're not signs of equality. Unfortunately, these are now signs of inequality. You have well taken positions from the Republic, the local level. You hold power at all levels, and citizens unfortunately don't feel that improvement. Please do something, we will be happy if our criticisms in the Assembly are less and if we can admit that there is no inflation, that citizens have bigger salaries, that citizens can live normally with their salary, that citizens don't have to go abroad to find a job, but they can do it in Serbia. I honestly think that's what everyone in the opposition thinks. I think we'd like that to happen, too, but it's not happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8418	Mr. Veselinovic, time has passed. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8419	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 100. – President of the National Assembly, or chairing in your case when chaired by the National Assembly if he wishes to participate in the search leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. As if it were not enough, Mr Arsic, which is clearly one rule here regarding opposition MPs, and other rules on MPs who support the government of the Republic of Serbia, but you are also involved in the search. They reiterate the request of the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr Stefanovic, for 20 minutes we have together with NDS and LSV MPs, all together and not 40 minutes. If you are not capable of 40 minutes of criticism to endure with more than 220 MPs who support the ruling coalition, please state that we are not bothering the citizens and that we are not sitting here to give this building some essence or allow the debate to be conducted in the way that the Rules of Procedure foresees or do not conduct the debate at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8420	My colleague Jerkov, I interrupted my colleague Veselinovic for this very reason not to make some mistake and not to make some wrong fact that would burden his further exposure. Nothing else was my intention. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Right on the line, Zoran Babic, and that ends the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a strange notion of democracy when one side has a right and, of course, it needs to speak, and the other side has to keep quiet, that someone can ask a question, and that someone has no right to even answer, that someone can hurt, insult, and give findings whatever you want, and someone can't stand up and face attitudes. What kind of democracy is that? What's that? Is that an introduction to some dictatorship, one-brained, something that a colleague who had just said would like to come back at such a time? On the one hand, one colleague says – it suits us when you talk as much as possible, and now on the other hand it doesn't answer when we talk. On the one hand, I'm really glad when Mr. Veselinovic needs to replicate to me then a dozen colleagues gather on the other side to come up with an answer. It's not bad. Here's your hand. Here are the thrown gloves just to measure, to say that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live and live hard, but live with more hope, with more confidence, with the hope that light will come at the end of the tunnel, a tunnel that lasts years and decades ago. Let's go to the Vojvodina elections, let's not have 6% rule the Vojvodina anymore, because there's no right to rule, because people living in Vojvodina will not be ruled by Boyan Pajtic with 6% support. Let us see what these people think of you, of us, of everyone who has done or does, who is responsible for the exercise of authority. That's the only thing that's relevant. We can negotiate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8422	Thank you, really two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8423	One sentence only. We can negotiate, but what's only relevant are citizens in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8424	Thank you. I think there's been a lot of replicas and we can move to the agenda point. You won't let us cross? I've seen 20 injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, if there's a replica of two minutes and two minutes apart, if there's an abuse of injury, and I believe it won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8425	I'll make sure it doesn't. Article 106 and 107, because the previous speaker presented a series of things that are very problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8426	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure to the problem of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8427	Just to explain, I think you should have reacted in a situation where the previous speaker accused my colleague of wanting to return Serbia to a time of one-in-oneness and dictatorship, that's the first thing. It's something we consider an insult, especially when it comes from that side. I think the gentleman is the last one who can talk about it, if we're right, and I think in that situation you could at least mildly reprove him, if you don't warn him, and return him to what we're trying to discuss today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8428	I can't do it in replicas, you know, even in the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8429	You, as president of the assembly, as we have seen from your vice president, can also get involved in the debate. So why don't you do less than your vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8430	Article 106 says: “The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. ” You don't just let it move to the agenda, all together, whoever's been talking for the last hour. I don't see the president's mistake, anyone sitting there. Article 107 says, "I owe it to respect the dignity of the National Assembly", I am close to the idea that we should open up one session so that we can all talk about what it looks like to the citizens of Serbia when they watch our sessions and whether they have objections to our overall exposure. Do you want us to vote on the violation of Articles 106 and 107? No, I don't. Alexander Jerkov's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8431	Mr Babic, not to mention my name, has accused me as a previous speaker of having the intention of introducing dictatorship and autocracy into Serbia, so now I don't know if you think it's the mention of a MP who may be a misreading or an insult, or do you think I have the right to answer one such accusation? That was at a time when you and Mr. Arsic were handing over the presidency. I wonder if you believe that I have the right to replication for such an accusation by Mr. Babic, or would it be an abuse of my right and do I abuse the right to do so when Mr. Babic speaks of me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8432	The notice is Tuesdays and Thursdays. Just a violation of the Rules of Procedure this time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure to a member who? I'm not going to answer not to fall into a predecessor's trap. So, you've been given a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8433	I believe the injured member is 104. The Rules of Procedure because the President of the National Assembly does not give me the right to replication in a situation where the previous speaker accused me of trying to introduce dictatorship and autocracy into Serbia. If you, Mrs. Gojkovic, think it's okay and I really don't have the right to answer one of these charges, it speaks more of the way SNS runs this Assembly than anything we say here. If you continue to insist that I do not have the right to reply, nothing you answer can be a valid explanation. I demand that the National Assembly declare itself in the day of voting and of this violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8434	Okay, I'm not going to answer so she doesn't irritate you. You didn't ask for a replica in my presence, but I won't respond because yesterday one of the MPs wouldn't let me answer, and that speaks of the overall atmosphere in the work. I will now allow myself to move to the agenda, because there are MPs who do not want to participate in the talks, but want to participate in the debate on the agenda point, which is also one of the provisions, so we are obliged to discuss what is on the agenda. I would certainly have given you a replica if you'd asked in my presence and for me. That's not disputed, we'll vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure anyway. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8435	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, allow me to say ten claims as to why it is good that there has been a change and change of the Law on Higher Education. The first is that there has been an amendment to the Law on Higher Education in a very short time since you've been Minister of Education, within three months, which is for every praise. Secondly, it is good that these amendments will allow students who study under the old curricula and programme to continue their studies for two more years, or three from the medical profession. I must say that we have been fighting this change for two years and that after two years we have succeeded today, thanks to the rest of you and the ministry, that this has come to the agenda and that our students will be able to continue their studies under the old programme. Thirdly, it's a good thing that these amendments and additions to the law emphasize the openness of universities and colleges, although it has been so far, but it's great to stress that. Fourthly, it's a good thing that there's been an improvement in the provisions on the accreditation of higher education institutions and on the accreditation of programs, although I have to say that there have been problems, but I'm saying it's really good to change some things on the walk. Fifthly, it's good that the more clear the status of the emeritus is determined. Sixthly, it's a good thing they're being introduced into higher education institutions by associates outside of working relationships, so-called "Six." - What's going on? That's very good, and that's what the teachers at higher education institutions really welcomed. Seven, it's a good thing we're introducing a database and an information system. Eight, it is good that the more clear the recognition of the foreign higher education documents is made for the continuation of education and for the purpose of employment. I think we all agree in this House that these are elements that are really good. Ninth, it's a good thing you already said in the opening part that in 2015 there will be a new law. I'm undermining it for the professors who work at higher school institutions, because they're following this transmission and they're very interested in it. It's a good thing you didn't bring it right away, 'cause that would be quick. As you said yourself, there are a lot of problems and they need to be resolved gradually. 10th, it's a good thing that the legal procedure was respected in the adoption of this law, which we had twice the Educational Committee and that listening was six on these amendments and the bill's proposals. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if education and education is the primary resource of our society in terms of transition, and it is, then it can contribute greatly to the progress and modernisation of Serbia only if conditions are created for its optimal functioning. Therefore, reforms of education and education and its economic basis are a key moment and imperative of the modernisation project, Serbia, which was promoted by our prime minister, Mr Vukic, in his exposé during the elections of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in April 2014, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the light of all MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The prime minister is well aware that education holds the keys to development and that development as an extremely complex process includes changes, both customs and habits, as well as modes of action, and this requires heroic effort. That's why Mr. Prime Minister of our government said in his exposé on page 32, I'll quote colleagues, but not in the sense they were talking about. I quote - this government will reform the education system. Our education will be our first priority. The quote's finished. That's right, Mr. Minister. You are absolutely right that in your term of office, a system of education will be reformed because he did not start by coming to you at the head of the minister. I think that MPs who have spoken, or have tended to, or have not been informed that the system has begun reforming itself long before, are ten years old, both in primary education and education, and in secondary and targeted education and higher education. It is these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education that will contribute to a more effective reform process, as they remove some of the doubts and weaknesses that have arisen in everyday practice for the last ten years in higher education. That's what you emphasized. I think that's the point, to get under. We need to reform the education and education system in line with the reality of Serbia, its drive towards European integration, as well as taking account of the preservation of national identity, humanistic development and unity of the system of education in general. Reforms of the education and education system must follow the flows and trends of scientific and technological and cultural progress, as well as the increasingly diverse needs of social development and life. In fact, it should become a permanent duty and a need and a process for all of our carriers to perfect this activity, and this assumes that teachers are provided with optimal conditions for professional training and only education in which you often spoke when you performed. In one word, our educational system requires genuine reform and reconstruction. It started, but now we're starting with this adoption of amendments and amendments to the law, but looking at higher education, primary school education and high school education, we now need to affirm an even stronger educational process in general, I would say, at the level of the pedagogical revolution. This, first of all, refers to the changes and reconstruction of all the curricula and programs that were shy here, and you pointed out that very well the day before yesterday on the board. So, the Bologna process doesn't just mean the framework, it essentially changes the role of professor as lecturer. So, the role of students etc, but changing teaching, modernising curricula and programs in colleges. I have to point out that we have problems now, terrible problems. Let's caricate, now there are some colleges that declare the teaching program a single teaching unit. There's an inspection task that you're talking about getting a little deeper into higher school institutions. It's so-called. the internal reform that you have indicated that we are going to change the curricula and the programmes next year and it may be, as important as this framework is, the more important this internal reform of schools and universities in general is. We have not, unfortunately, redefine the goal of education and education even though we have moved into a new system of socialism, from socialist to capitalist. It's the task of our pedagogical workers, the faculty's teaching department, philosophical in the first order. I think they have to do it. Not only that, but we didn't use methods of educational work to innovate, we didn't innovate the profile of an educational worker in general, we didn't inhale the network of educational institutions, we go shyly and that's good. We can't have a network of colleges and elementary schools and high school in a hurry to do this. We do it gradually. Our tradition and tradition have our educational education system, because some experiences for the last ten years tell us that we really made a mistake when we quickly entered some things. Pedagoggy without borders is a traditional achievement and a constant and civilization achievement which enables and requires the openness of the university, as you pointed out in the law, according to all progressive courses in education, in Europe and the world, but with the condition that the imperative of critical evaluation and creative takeover of foreign ideas and models in your pedagogical practice is respected, which requires that so-called. The European dimension of education in our reform benefits responsibly and cautiously without underestimating its own pedagogical experiences and achievements. Unfortunately, we haven't stuck to it in the last ten years, because we've been overly emphasising more European models, not just models, but also some solutions without critical consideration, especially when it comes to high school education and primary school education, as well as a university in general. During the period of the education crisis, there was a real expansion of private education that was said here, with a tendency for foreigners to mass-open their schools in our midst and for individual foreign cultural centres to deal with the education of our children, students and students. Therefore, Mr. Minister, it is necessary to move faster and more studioly, you have inherited these problems, study this issue and offer your teaching and social public wider information and bring specific measures for the rational organisation of private education in general. Unfortunately, today, we don't know how many private departments of individual colleges we have. It's the mistake of the former ministers before you. You're trying, I have to say here in public, to bring order into these problems. Unfortunately, the ministry didn't even know it before you did. Most of these out-of-state departments of individual private colleges work without permission, they still do, because you can't get to the number, and the inspection doesn't do its job. It's started working, you're right, ever since you got here, and I'm glad you replaced the chief, who's one of the main culprits. That you moved him in that sense and it gives hope and your promise is really going to get better. I'm going to quote the inspector, the chief -- the teacher's teaching is being held by cafes, factory halls and sports halls, in bricks, rarely by anyone who has real classrooms, libraries, constantly employed professors. This was completed quote in "Politice", 4 August 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8436	Ambassador, just one moment, by procedure, I have to extend my work, and you remember where you left off, and we'll proceed. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you in accordance with these provisions that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I had to interrupt you for the length of your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8437	Thank you, Madam President. I quote the Law on Higher Education is strict and says that outcast departments must have their permanent professors past lecturers from primary schools. Complete quote, "Politika" 4 August 2012. So you see that same chief finds that he's strict, but he didn't apply it, but he didn't twist what the people say to the common dictionary. Why? Let the citizens of Serbia answer why. The accreditation committee has accredited and there's nothing she can do about it, but maybe she can inspect it. I know they have four inspectors and I think 126 in primary and high school, and that's where reform has to fall, that they're doing vertical work. There's enough 130 of them. He can't be an inspector for elementary school, especially high school, etc. There are really huge problems here even though I have to say that strange things are that the Accreditation Commission accredited some of the programs and colleges where there's only one regular professor. In the entire university, one professor. But I have to say that she made an extremely large contribution and gave order in higher education exactly the same commission. There are wonderful people there, for example, Vera Vujcic, who, not to say, has woven life, but not all of them. That is why there is a conflict between the National Council and the Accreditation Commission, not because of jurisdiction, but because of power, and power is not with them. Do you know where the power is? The power is in this congregation, not completely neutral, independent. They have to file accounts here. I ask you, gentlemen, MPs of opposition and position, when did they file here? In the last ten years I've never known, and they've sent us reports. Why are they not being considered in this congregation? And your good intentions are that they're really going to be considered here at the Assembly, so we're going to get some things in order. Let me quote a quote at the end. Imagine, I quote, the chief inspector from Banja Luka sent us to determine the facts, because they found 50 students of a private New Sad college teaching in the state of the pub. They seized the indexes, but when they got the answer from that college that the students were there on the field trip, they had to return them. Please, it's the Chief Inspector's report. No comment. The elementary school teachers who are watching this right now, I don't think they have any comment in general. This was before. I'm glad you touched the inspection. Now let me just say that colleges' entry policy is on old-fashioned grounds, without any relying on the human needs of professions, so it's more brain drains and the production of social cases than the root changes. Your announcement on the Committee is in this sense, the changes are encouraging and it's an honor for you, because I see that you have a vision, most importantly, that you have a vision of development, and then we'll get to the results easily. The education reform strategy in our country, mentioned by you, is not based on teaching. You know, she gave good extremely European frameworks. Why the pedagogue? Well, she's not wearing a name, she's wearing an education strategy, not education and education. She neglected her educational role in the function of the school, which is what we need in practice to correct. Finally, since it is the Bologna Declaration, only three documents are important. Here today I see the confusion of some sort with the MPs. First - Lisbon Declaration in 1997 on diplomas and certificates; second - the Sorbonne Declaration 1998 on the main role of the university and the third - the Bologna Declaration in 1999 on the European Higher Education Area. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad to see these students on the old program. I've received them here in the Assembly two years ago and we're fighting a battle. There are 22,000 of them in the Republic of Serbia, with 12,000 to 14,000 in Belgrade. I now speak to them in one sentence. Gentlemen, under the old school program, it's never too late. I've seen their indexes, they've got genius students. Because of social cases, economic, family, etc., we've allowed, here and now, to continue education. Galileo Galileo's best work ends in the 72nd year of life - Dialogues on new teachings etc. Plato wrote a piece of the law at the age of 80, Kant wrote "The Pure Mind Critic" in 57 years, and in 66 years. Believe it or not, the critic of the power of the trial, etc. He put Sophocles on stage in his 89th year of life... That's what the literature people know. Professor Vojin Smoldaka, the famous professor of physical education, constantly perfected values and physical cultures in the 1990s and associated with medicine, etc. Go ahead, gentlemen, students. There are no bad students, there are bad politicians and there are bad lecturers for the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8438	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8439	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, National Assembly presidents, respected ministers, as you know, the Bologna Declaration contains procedures that enable the modernisation of the education system and connect students and universities from all over Europe to create a unique educational space. It also implies the consistency of SPB points and burdens that relate primarily to the time needed for the student to pass the exam, then methods of working with students, study rules, quality and relevance of the teaching programme and materials, practice, mobility of students, creating work habits and the concept of learning throughout life. In our education system, as you know, Bologna entered the small door by adopting the 2005 Higher Education Act. The problem arises in a partial, arbitrary and insufficient implementation of the Bologna system, and for years and years we have not moved from this point. A high-quality academic citizen can only emerge from a complete and quality education system, and a semi-implemented Bologna declaration necessarily leads to half results, and in this sense, the situation in Serbia, as I have mentioned, has been the same for years. After almost ten years, and you know that, and who knows how many Education Ministers have spent in the meantime, what is the result of the half-reform of education? Half of the reform results in young people with a one-way ticket and a desire for better quality study. Half of the reform results in constant November struggles for its rights and student protests that take place almost every year. The result of the half-reform is ultimately the production of highly educated personnel whose only perspective is unemployment in Serbia or in the ultimate line of immigration. How much of a matter of higher education is unseriously accessible in this government and while you are a minister, it also shows the fact that this is the fifth time that the 2005 law is being amended and complemented, and we have not seen anything really new since 2005 in this proposal. It is particularly worrying that the Serbian government has decided, through such a bill, to save on students. The Serbian government allows students to pass exams, as you know, year after year, but it abolishes their fifth year, an extended year of study on the budget. We believe that this is a legal scam of students who are stimulated by students to pass exams in order to ultimately pay the price of their rate of study. If an extended year is disabled in the budget, it will certainly cause further implications to the harm of all students. I'll say it specifically and which one. One, they can't compete, as you know, for the benefit of the student dorms unless they're on the budget. Given the low cost of SPB points at most colleges, there is a risk that very good students, and even excellent, give up their studies, even if they have one or two exams left until the end because they have to attend lectures or exercises, and they do not have the means to live, they can give up further study. Without budget privileges, under number two, students have to pay, as you know, tuition, apartment and food. The tuition is about 120,000 dinars average in colleges, for example Belgrade University. That's 10,000 dinars a month if you split it in 12 months. At best, you can find an apartment in Belgrade not below 9,000 dinars. If we take one meal to cost at least 200 dinars and we take three meals a day, in a month it's about 18,000 dinars just for food. By simple calculation, we come to the fact that 37,000 dinars are required only for the basic needs and tuition of life. That's why I wanted to ask you as Minister, do you know what the average salary in Serbia is today? If you know, then you realize that many and employees, and those are getting smaller in the last two years, can't live the student life that you imagined in Serbia today. Dear fellow Members of the People, do you think that the state allows them to pass exams from year to year, supporting, of course, the lack of any kind of sanctions, and then disabling them the fifth year of their studies, even though the fourth is also entered in the budget? The state, in addition to being known today in Serbia, has built the last dormitory in the past century and is deaf to the needs and demands of students and young people in Serbia, also through the ministry, which you, Mr Verbic, are leading to allow colleges to increase tuition, although the ministry has the legal opportunity to prevent it. The ministry has the possibility of additionally not burdening students who come from already needy families, but it doesn't. The question is, why? Probably because you received, like all of your government colleagues, something called a crush on a liberal concept, and even when it comes to education, a concept in which one who doesn't have money can't live with dignity, and then why would a young man even have a chance to study? You're building on this example of a society where only you in power have hope, and citizens and young people live in hopelessness. Instead of saving on students, the state of Serbia must, without delay, change access to the problem of higher education by making the student a goal, not a means, by making the student become the purpose of the law, rather than someone through whom you will push some dinar across their backs. We call on the Serbian government to implement a reform of the higher education system until the end and without compromise. Young and educated people have to form the spine of our society, not be treated in such a way as to cope almost with poverty and to resort to various ways of surviving, eating or finding a place to sleep. In the end, young people cannot spend their youth with dignity in this country. We call on the Serbian government to increase the budget for education, science and technological development, and this was above all your task in these 130 days of government and that the Serbian Government, headed by you as a minister, shows that you care about young, talented, smart people in this country and that they can also learn in normal conditions to develop, to bring to the end and laws that will confirm it, not laws that will systemically cheat. Finally, Mr. Verbic, 130 days have passed since you were elected minister and we can say it's your first semester. You will be remembered as a minister whose governments have shaken various affairs, the foundations of the education system, and after such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, you have fallen absolutely to the Serbian public this semester of 130 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8440	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milan Korach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8441	Thank you very much, President, for giving me your word. I expected to get my word early. I want to, before I speak of a particular matter, to say that it's a good thing that the Ministry has come out with an amendment and an addition to this law, given the controversy which has been public in recent months, so it is in this House itself, an interpretation of the interpretation of this law. I wouldn't interpret what the law is solving, but I would talk about the specific thing that individuals face in practice, that I can get this degree to apply in my life. I received one proposal, it's actually a request, one student who graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad and received a degree and said – Serbian philosophy graduate – Serbian literature and language. He also got confidence in the master. I ask the question – should the same name be used in the degree and in the belief of the master? Here is the talk – a graduated Serbian philologist – Serbian literature and language, and the master says – master professor of literature and language of the Serbian. In interpreting this degree in Novi Becej, where this lady lives, she simply cannot be employed in high school because the name in the diploma is not identical to the name in the rulebook, which determines the names. Now the question is asked – should the diploma be issued on the basis of the rules, as it is formulated, or should that rule be agreed later? Is it possible for the university to randomly determine the names or does it have to get verification from the ministry? Here this lady or lady, she spoke to the ministry in 2013 to resolve the question of whether she was a graduate student, who also has a master, could teach in high school. She received an answer from the ministry that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development forwarded your initiative to the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, for the sake of further expert opinion. He says – The Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education has delivered the opinion to the Ministry and, on the basis of which he provides the documentation and proposes the addition of the Code of Academic Names Master of Literature and Language (Serbist) to conduct classes and subjects of Serbian language and literature. The Ministry is in agreement with the opinion of the Office and will be taken into account when the next amendment to that Regulation. That time has been over a year, and that rule has not been updated, and she can't get her knowledge that she's acquired in college and her degree to teach at that high school. I've tried direct contact with the ministry for two months to resolve this issue. There's just no answer to how he's going to get rid of it. I don't think this kind of practice and this kind of work is allowed and it's a matter of responsibility that a college graduate can't use his degree and his knowledge to work in practice, because she's challenged that her diploma doesn't comply with the names laid down by the rulebook. How long does it take for this ministry to agree, to inspect that rulebook with the names that apply to the diploma? You here are beautiful in article 95, in professional, academic and scientific titles you said nice, but you did not say who betrays and says – you need a master with a sign of calling in a particular area. Is that college and when it determines? Does it arbitraryly determine or must it stick to any names that have already been identified? You said here in a member of the new Act 105b that the minister is making a solution to professional recognition within 90 days of the date of receipt of a conviction to recognise a professional higher education document for employment. So these are foreign diplomas. Then what are we going to do with our diplomats who are not in conformity with this rule? Is the ministry supposed to handle this within a certain time limit? We can see in this case that it's been years without this issue being solved. I submitted one amendment, because the minister here said that many of the ideas given were probably not fully implemented in the way it was imagined and that this discussion in the Assembly should contribute to the improvement of the law. I have made an observation, or in one amendment, that the Ministry is under obligation when a new name is introduced at the Faculty of Knowledge, that within 15 or 30 days, it is necessary to implement the innovation in this Regulation. We only heard other speakers. It's not just a question here, from this college, but other colleges. This was also on the Education Committee. It has been said that there are many, many names listed in the diploma that simply do not comply with this rule. I would ask the minister to pay first of all attention to that, because many finished students can't get a job and work because there's such contradiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8442	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Verbic, the Honorable Guests, it is custom, I think, very good, to discuss in this assembly the proposals of the law, the policies, and the objections or some suggestions that the MPs have in relation to the proposed law. Since you, Mr Verbic, do not follow this custom, I ask you, perhaps until the end of this debate, to take a little part in the debate, to exchange some additional opinions, in order to make this bill, I think, better than it is now. This proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, in my court, and there is no dilemma there, repairing the current legal document. There's no dilemma. I don't know. The applause isn't here from the SNS. Dear gentlemen, above all, Mr Verbic, by adopting this bill, we remain very far away from a series of fundamental changes that require a serious review of the law as a whole. My expectation was that today we were going to talk about a new law. Since we're not talking about a new one, we're talking about amendments, I'm heading towards amendments. What's a good thing or what's better regulated by this bill? A few things, I mean, that are important, for example. issues of the technical process of accreditation, recognition of foreign diplomas, introduction of new calls and qualifications, availability of information to the public. It's all good and we support it. I see you do, too. So it's okay. Praise one year, no dilemma, but we have a problem. The problem is that this bill, again in my court, Mr Verbic, does not offer effective, enforceable and verifiable solutions to eliminate the biggest problems in the higher education system. I'm just going to list what the biggest problems are, and then I'm going to focus a little more specifically on this amendment to the law. Abuse of university autonomy is one of the biggest problems of higher education today. Another thing, corruption at universities in connection with some of the state's institutions. Then, as Mr. Zivkovic said here, other MPs mentioned, outdated curricula and programs, the inertness of university teachers. I think we're one of the few states where university teachers represent the biggest brake and the biggest obstacle in change. That's gotta change around here. We have a weak scientific and professional competence of personnel, honor some exceptions. I think there's insufficient participation of students. That's what it's supposed to be about, too. Mr. Verbic, you say you are preparing a new proposal for a law on higher education, which will be completed by the end of 2015. I assume you're telling us that this bill will be the answer to these biggest questions and problems in the higher education system. Before that 2015, there is time to pass by the end of 2015, I have two questions, Mr. Verbic, for you. The first question, when the government was formed a few months ago, you were announced as a minister who already has an accurate plan, policy proposals, legislative proposals, etc., but now we hear that it is not. I'm interested in the answer to the next question - who, Mr Verbić, has deceived? Did you cheat on Mr. Vukic or did Mr. Vukic cheat on the citizens of Serbia when he told them? Please answer that question immediately. The second question, in early June, you said to the daily newspaper "Politika" that our laws do not clearly state in which cases something is considered plagiarism. Let's just say that's true. If that is true, then I am interested in the answer to the next question – how is it that in the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Higher Education you did not provide a place for the principle of academic integrity, which would replace to some extent the absence of those rules and procedures that you yourself spoke of? Mr Verbić, we have submitted an amendment and we have put in the amendment that full respect for the principles and principles of academic integrity must be introduced by this amendment to the Law on Higher Education. Yesterday on the Committee I told you - if you accept this amendment, we will vote in favour of this proposal for a law on higher education. If not, we will seek your immediate resignation from the post of minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8444	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8445	The Honorable President, Mr Minister, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is always at the heart of the adoption or amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, because this is a very important issue for our community. This law was passed in 2005 and, as we know, it was changing and supplementing 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2013. These changes and additions that we have on the agenda today do not solve all problems in the area of higher education, but it is quite true that these changes have made significant shifts towards improving legislation and regulation in the area of higher education. After all, it never happened that one law, one solution, reached the ideal variant or ideal law. So it's impossible to bring, in the meantime, absolutely good and so comprehensive a law that in itself will solve all the problems in one area. It's utopia and it's not possible. The reform we're talking about goes gradually. It's a continuous process and that's how it needs to be understood. What has been done in this area of higher education has been of great importance since 2005. You're here at the head of the ministry to go along with your associates, but together with us, to continue such a process. The law was passed in 2005 and after accession to the Bologna Declaration. Bologna assumes the functioning of a single European space in which we have a common framework for the comparison of qualifications and diplomas, the introduction of a European system of transferable points, the introduction of European standards to ensure the quality of higher education, the flow of students and teachers in the context of integrated European space in higher education, as well as the simplified way of notifying, or recognising diplomas. So it's supposed to be a goal for us. Of course, by passing the law back in 2005, only one such job was started that was not even finished today. He seems to have a lot of problems with higher education after nine years. The Bologna process has not fully relived and there are even certain improvisations. There are resistances to the application of Bologna that require greater commitment and presence both teachers and students in the teaching process. In fact, because there is no uniform approach to what Bologna is applied in colleges, we also have different problems. For these reasons, we have today what is a condition for enrollment next year, which is 60 points, doesn't come true, and then we bring through changes and additions. We also did this in 2008, 2010 and 2012, to move that line down and in such a way we are actually holding back what should be standard, what should be a rule and what should be a condition for a faster and more quality progress further. In fact, through this you should look at how what's inside the university works, and that's teaching, what textbooks are, how much study programs are adapted to modern currents, etc. But all these questions aren't the subject of this law, because we have university autonomy, and that's not what law can do. It remains at universities and their communities and associations, but of course through the law, by regulating certain members to do so, that there are certain obligations in this autonomy that are binding. Autonomy cannot be absolute isolation, independence, separation from society and the right to edit the entire system, as one understands by one’s free conviction. Autonomy implies the right to autonomously regulate and act on important issues in the field of education and education, i.e. on matters of higher education in accordance with the law, with the Constitution and with other applicable acts and documents within our education system, but also in the context of a single European space. Several important issues of this law are certainly better governed by certain areas. The issue was current at the time of the last government, during Minister Zarko Obradovic. It is a question of recognition of diplomas, or qualifications. In this regard, both in this direction and in order to solve the problem, certain steps have been taken in co-operation with the Ministry of Education and with then Minister Obradovic, as has been done now. I believe that on July 25, 2014, a public hearing was organised here, organised by our home education committee, for education, and then, on March 7, 2013, on the subject of "Nostration of diploma". The concept was then made that through a special organisational unit, the Ministry established a type of acquired qualification for further employment and that higher education institutions determine the level of knowledge achieved. Of course, from this debate, from this public hearing, from later discussions, as well as from the public hearing that we had on July 25th, what we have today in the Bill's proposal, which is the recognition of a degree in two parts, and that is professional recognition, for which the Ministry of Education is tasked with through its organisational unit and academic recognition first for the purpose of employment, and academic recognition for the purpose of further education, of course, all of this after the previous evaluation of foreign study programmes. When it comes to the issue of recognition of diplomas, of course other entities and the civil sector have dealt with this issue as well. Interesting are certain observations arising from such research and observation, e.g. that the University of Novi Sad in a simpler and faster way than in Belgrade approaches the process of nostrification, i.e. recognition of diploma. But there are no clear and binding criteria as well as standardisation of the process, which is not a guarantee if today is so, that tomorrow and the day after that it will be so. Through the Youth Fund for the last three years of study in Europe, 983 students went to other universities, and that around sevenm euros were allocated from the budget for this need and that a positive effect should be expected after this through the return of these young people, now professional. However, we have a problem recognising diplomas, or nostrifications, and that practically in the practice we have so far, we have that these funds have been thrown away. In a way, you could say that. The whole process of nestrificing, or recognition, was uncertain, was expensive, which is also very important to highlight the main obstacle to the country's further development, with the collection of knowledge that needs to be returned here and the braking of these young people who are supposed to take their place here. Of course, with these changes and additions, I hope that we will take a positive step in that direction to make it go much faster, much better, much more certain, that it costs young people less and benefits from it. Our goal is to fully integrate into a single European space of higher education, and in this respect it is a very important issue of accreditation. This implies introducing European standards for quality assurance in higher education. It seems that in the current way of accreditation there have been certain shortcomings that have resulted in increased production of people with discriminatory levels of knowledge, which distances us from everything that assumes an integrated European space of higher education. So the question arises, if we don't have a proper level in what is acquired knowledge, in what assumes to reach the level of knowledge, to whom does it serve, and what does it actually serve? Of course, there should be no illusion that with these changes and additions, we have solved all these issues that my fellow MPs have discussed here today and, of course, some of the questions that I have raised in my presentation. In any case, these amendments and additions should be commended and seen as a continuation of what was done in the previous period in order to improve legislative regulation and to bring them closer to standards and to everything that involves an integrated European space, because we must, we did not want to, to imitate, and to be our ultimate goal. Mr. Minister, you said in your opening statement that the Commission that worked in the preparation of this law is practically with many more issues to be discussed. Not the Commission itself, but in communication with the widest professional public, with many other entities, with other professional branches, and in fact through one such activity, we continue a continuous process towards improving legal regulation and what is a different practice at universities. I would mention once again that it is very important that the internal reform of the university is carried out and that the principle of openness that is set here implies that universities are not closed with an invisible curtain and that they can work there as they please, and that they owe certain accounts, so to say, which they have to expose to the public and citizens and that it is necessary, in fact, especially when it comes to Bologna, that the university experience finally one internal reform and that the principles of Bologna are applied differently with greater participation and involvement of teachers and students and that as little improvisation in all of this becomes. Of course, there are many fields and questions that are open and that there are really many problems and that in the next period we have to work very hard on it. But it's not just the Ministry of Education's problem, this National Assembly that's going to pass some law that you're proposing with improvement and amendments, etc. It is necessary in other segments and other areas which cannot be legally decided to take over people in charge of higher education, which are primarily teachers and teaching staff and their co-workers and students. In general, for this time and for this moment we can still be satisfied because another step has been skipped, made another step forward and it was also your role and your task which you have successfully accomplished and the SPS, in fact the parliamentary club of our party will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8446	The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Just to let the MPs know that we are no longer in direct television coverage because of the obligation to broadcast sports competitions on the second programme. I think it's volleyball. Here you go. You have three minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8447	Thank you. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear Minister Verbic, with a reduced team of associates, you see how hard it is to work here all day in the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will use this little time to point out some more things. When I spoke about the commission on accreditation and endangering autonomy or jurisdiction, everyone in the discussions held onto finance. It's not just about finance. Another more important component of independence is the way to decide. Namely, when the commission rejects an institution and she complains, it goes to the National Council and the National Council can accept it. Usually it was a problem. He has the biggest problem with colleges and universities where the National Council has corrected the decision. It is therefore good that, as in the judiciary, the decision is returned to the commission and that the commission's decision is final. That's the first thing. Second, professional studies. I heard a list from a respected colleague Stoimirovic, but I didn't hear that there was France, neither Britain nor many important countries. As I said, professional studies have only been introduced in a few of the largest and most developed EU members. Of course, all these new Baltic countries, Bulgaria, Romania, are chasing and running to join and catch that train. So that's not an argument. And even less is the argument when we call for neighbours, and it is neighbouring the type of Macedonia and Montenegro. Why don't they name Croatia, Slovenia? So it's still the double arches and the arguments. In the end, it always says - the cost of a solution. Professional studies are cost-effective. For example, senior business school will also call a competition for master of professional studies. They're enrolling two and a half thousand regular students, so academic studies, and they're going to enroll another thousand on these others. You'll be financed by something, by some individuals. I was counting -- one-off profit, one-and-a-half euros at the prices they have, and it will cost the Ministry. It's about professional studies. There's one more thing I'd like to say about these diplomas and recognitions. I spoke to the inspectors. Of course, I won't say the name of the inspector. It's Nisaw County, Pirot, Leskovac. How do inspectors treat diplomas? They only treat diplomas based on credit points or credit points, which is more clear to our public. So 240 points master of academic studies or specialist professional studies are exactly the same for them. Therefore, not only will it cost both the state and the individuals of the vocational study, but there will be other problems. What can happen? The employer, the private employer...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8448	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8449	Please, just one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8451	A private employer will choose for quality, but it may happen, knowing the situation with us, that the state administration is receiving a worse candidate with a better candidate from academic studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8452	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of Milena Bycanin. Here you go. I'm sorry, you've been changing. So, it's Milena Bicanin, Dejan Nikolic and Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8453	Looks like this line's a little off, so now we're all waiting a little bit. Although we are tired, the topic is of great importance to this society and this people and I think we could have a little more concentration and end this discussion. Mr. Verbich, I think you've been sitting on a very important chair. I'm sorry that our society still doesn't recognize the importance of education, even though it's very easy to talk about education being important, let's state a few arguments why it's important and we think that we are all about saying it. I think you're running a resort that made very successful societies in happy countries, made a society of education, and I'd add welfare states. Whether we and when we come to a society of education and to a state of prosperity are not ready at this point to bid, I don't think there's any need, but simply, I think we all have to make one organized, meaningful, noble and very responsible effort to make this country far happier and more perspective, and education is one of the best ways to do that. I believe that the Serbian society has not yet lost confidence in education and this is witnessed by a truly painful family throughout our country who in difficult conditions have not been educated by their children with the hope of providing them with a better life and that hope is certainly certain, but as much as hope is not lost in the importance of education, I think that belief in the quality of education has been rocked long ago. I think that, as with previous ministers in many governments behind this, as well as what will come, it will not be easy for you, and how effective your work will be, of course, depend on what we are today, or on the quality of the discussion and all the aspirations to do these serious efforts. It seems to me somehow for this short time that I am an MP in Parliament that we often fight a battle with ourselves, that even solutions that are solid at the moment may be the only objectively possible, very easily denied, not realizing that there are really no other culprits for everything that happens but ourselves. So it doesn't matter if we belong to the opposition, the position, we're citizens of this country, and we're really sharing those same fates, so we're always the only ones responsible, because it's really all in the human will and the human decision. Any proposal for a solution that is presented in this bill has its own, of course, to say the good side at a higher percentage, there are those that we can still think about, to discuss, etc., but what's most important of all is that we all advocate together for the quality of the realization of these legal solutions that are at this point, I'm going to say very kindly, very optimally. Therefore, if we are talking about the necessity of the higher education system being open, available to the public, and now in different spheres of its operation, of course it cannot be contradicted, but whether it will happen. We have been talking about the same thing since Bologna was adopted since 2005. Now I'm really wondering why? Who defended whom, who forbade us to be and to have such a system in 2005? Did we then claim that the system should not be opened, that it should not be available, that it should not be quality? It's never been claimed, but nobody's ever made enough serious efforts to really make it happen. Then we came to 2014 and, of course, with the indication that this law will change again in 2015. Personally and as an MP, I really don't mind anything that leads to any success, but I'm afraid that a lot of time goes to deals, to thinking, to all sorts of suggestions, to all sorts of suggestions, without having to catch up with and solve the problem at the moment we define the problem. If we have a problem with corruption, we have talked and I think that all of us who speak today quite agree on much of what we said, if we have a problem with corruption, why isn't this problem solved? In higher education, Professor Pavicevic spoke about it earlier, I think he was highly invited, since he was a professor at a higher education facility. You know, for every teacher who's done something, he shows up very quickly on the cover of any tabloid. Why are we untouchable here? What kind of message are we sending? Why are our trees and bandits in the streets full of ads about bugs sold to make exams easier? Someone had to send that message to those young people. We've sent adults who work in different ways in some education system or we don't react, and I think we're all equally responsible. Therefore, none of the proposed solutions, however much we ask for a flaw or praise, will be good if it is not brought to life in the system and if we do not care about the quality of the execution of all the members of the laws that appear there. A single information system is being introduced. Minister, I suppose, no matter what only four months of the minister, you know that in the primary education system, it's also tried a long time ago with the introduction of a single information system. We went to seminars, spent a lot of time, spent some serious money. Do we have since 2013 that's one provision of law and what's going on, does it work? It doesn't work. So I'm telling you, solutions can be good, but they must be insisted on their realisation. If we're talking about the necessity that higher education institutions have to be, you have to check the quality of their work, I really don't personally see why it wouldn't happen at certain intervals. Once again, a parallel with lower education systems, where it is known that you come to an extreme evaluation for three years. Why can't we, why are we letting time pass, to do some damage, to get some newspaper or some reporter to tell us what's going on? If we get to that point, the damage has already been done, and then we can just drown in that mud that we created around us, that we're unhappy and that we keep getting the impression that we're one dysfunctional society on one side. On the other hand, by praising a number of young successful people who have achieved wonderful results around the world, about many young experts who are also successful in this world, and I think that they have gone among other things and because they feel that there is a system, however we judge it from the point of view of humanity, etc., this system works, the rules are known. We lack insistence, enough insistence on the rules. Don't keep – nepotism, don't let the professor's work reports end in drawers. We all know it's happening. What kind of message did we send to a teacher who was worthy and responsible? What kind of message did we send to a student, what parent, what social community, what public? That's where we fall. That's why I'm mostly talking about how it's necessary to insist on respecting members, the rules we've established ourselves. Without that result, there is no law to discuss at any level of education. I'm sure you understand that absolutely well, and that's probably your experience for these four months. What is also very important is, of course, the verification of diplomas brought from abroad. I know, of course, that many students are very ambitious young people, very good-quality people, coming back to the country with great disappointment, because nobody here could read what they were, returning to far less levels of education. I'm even willing to think like this, in perfectly perfect conditions, just so that all 250 MPs agree at this point and say – the law is fantastic, everything is wonderful, tomorrow to return 3,000 students from abroad, or finished young people, we wouldn't know what we're going to do. It takes time, it takes really very busy people to work on the work of nostrification and what's the beginning and the end of it all, it takes a successful society, a developed economy that will be able to absorb, which will be able to recognize the knowledge and skills of these young people. Only when such social conditions are made will we be able to achieve the well-being of those we hope for, which we expect, but who when they come, we don't know exactly what to do with them. We waver them and bring them back to that world so that we can somehow boast again about how there are some of our own who are very successful. That trap has to be overcome as soon as possible, because the brain drain story won't stop. I am also personally pleased with this kind of decision that universities show more openness to funding methods, according to the way the costs of student scholarships are structured. I think students really need to be as clear as their families are to be familiar with the cost they make when they're self-financed students. I think that it can commit it in a more serious way and colleges to a more careful use of money that will really go towards the one who is essentially all of our entire debate and the whole system is meant for, and that's what students are primarily about. Just one more sentence. I am very pleased to support the Horizon 2020 programme in the hope that these changes in the education system laws will receive one good follow-up through the participation of researchers in the project.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8454	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8455	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been taking a personal turn on the subject, I don't see any problem with the opposition quoting the exposés, that's our job. It is our job to point to the consistency of policy implementation. You, Mr. Verbic, were announced in that exhibition as a minister or then as a candidate with a great revolutionary plan, with great ideas. Someone just said that today is the 130th day of this government and your ministry. We haven't seen a plan and ideas in 130 days. We haven't heard anything about it today, because I believe this law isn't it. It's not your job just to organize a little prom and share books. It is your obligation to provide much better status for education in the Government of Alexander Vukic. To drive the prime minister away from general places and demagogy. To bring education in full terms of that word to the agenda, to provide greater support in the budget. You start truly deep reforms of education and make at least an assumption of the long-term development of our society. Everything else is an interpretation, running away from obligations, like when a child covers his eyes and you don't see him, you don't see that there are problems. Examples are numerous in Europe and the world. Countries that were, for example, in the 1960s were on the list of the most developed economic countries, and then years and years of enormous investment in education, and they are today very stable and very strong economic countries. Examples are from Asia, I mean four Asian tigers, all the way to the post-Communist countries of Europe where, say, Poland had similar problems as Serbia. In the fourth year when reforms in Poland began students at the PISA test in the first five, on the list of the first five most written students in Europe. The recipe exists, it's been tried many times, it's been checked. What I don't see in you is the strength to start applying that recipe in Serbia. The basic text of the Higher Education Act was written in 2005 and since then much has changed. We've changed the law many times. Most of the time, I think it was pointless compromises that led to us today and we don't know what the fundamental intensity of this law is. At the time of its adoption in 2005, the government was promised to pass a law on the financing of higher education. Probably someone can confirm that. Of course the law wasn't passed. Today, higher education is financed by a very anachronous regulation that is inefficient, obsolete, which is not even fully applied. That's why our position was not to go into re-repairing and correcting the law, but to join the writing of a new law on higher education. It was even the view of KONUS, it was the attitude of the professional public, and you disobeyed the request. Article 2 and I think one of the most controversial members and member who can make, in my opinion, perhaps the most extensive consequences in higher education, is that you are changing the way in which the Commission's accreditation and quality check is financed and you are transferring to the budget. I'm not happy with your answer. You have compromised the position of the Commission in the European Association. So, if our commission happens to be expelled from the European Association, then it will be this member, this law and you, Mr Verbic. This in my view raises doubts as to why the Government wants to control the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Checks, especially today in the world of all these affairs when you need to solve the problem, to separate colleges from quasi-faculties, doctoral studies from quasi-doctor studies. When it comes to increasing the independence of the commission, you push it into the hands of the government. These are not European intensities, intensities of European standards. You open suspicion, you don't solve a problem. The next remark is master studies. It's true that you've given an answer. I'm honestly not happy. Miss Jerkov explained it very well. They exist in Europe in countries with developed industry. Where schools are connected to large companies, they teach at universities and schools. Students sign contracts when they're in college or high school. These are countries with developed industry, education, health care. The President of the National Council of Higher Education has put this member in the context of the National Framework Plan. What's going on with the National Framework Plan? What's going on with NOK? Let me explain, it's harmonising educated profiles with market needs. The NOK by which we operate from 1988 with some changes in the 1990s, made for Yugoslavia, for an industrial country with 20 million people. What are the consequences? We haven't been able to adopt a new NOK in six years. I'm not adjudicating anyone and no government, the consequences are enormous. Today, our education system produces unemployment. Our education system is an unemployment generator, 300,000 young people under 30 don't have a job today. We produce, or educate young people for 136 profiles that do not exist on the market. They're not deficits, they don't exist in the job cipher. New times over and over bring new generations. New generations are looking for rapid changes, and we are still stuck in partying and politics. The generations of young people suffer. No wonder young people are disgusted with politics today. What do they get? The education that prepares them for desk work, not work. A government that understands the problem, but doesn't understand the essence of a young unemployed man's problem. Mr. Verbich, there's a wall in front of us and you know you don't have a key, because the door doesn't exist. You can run a complete reform of the education system, build a door and find a way out or try a head to make a hole. We've banged our heads against the wall too many times in history to think today is the solution. Your job is big today. You need to start a comprehensive reform of the education system, secure better budget funding, open a question for that Sisife job, and you will get support from the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8456	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a folk MP Ivana Dinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8457	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, distinguished guests, as a young person, I would like to take part in today's debate on this law concerning the very process of higher education. In fact, this law will have a direct impact on the student population and on students of lower age and on students of the final years. It is good that for another year, a deadline is extended in which students who have started their studies under the old curricula and plan can complete their studies over the next year, not run out of diploma. A good solution is also to reduce the number of points for enrollment in the last year of studies to 37 points. The adoption of amendments and additions to the law eliminates the current problems of students related to the loss of student status and conditions for enrolment in the coming year. Namely, deadlines are set for students enrolled in primary and master's studies to complete these studies according to the old curricula and programme. This achieves greater efficiency of the system in the area of higher education and gives additional opportunity to those who have not passed the exams regularly. Also, the great benefits and advantages of the Bologna process, which young people today use, in relation to the old curricula and the programme under which most of our colleagues have graduated from college, are the introduction of a European credit transfer system, the introduction of European standards for ensuring the quality of higher education, with the preservation of all specificities both national, cultural and linguistic, comparison of diplomas and qualifications, the simplification of the process of recognition of diplomas and many others. Of course, the way of integration with the EU member states that our country is moving has opened up and freed up a lot of space for harmonising the principles on which a system of higher education is based in the Republic of Serbia with the European space of higher education. By applying the 2005 Higher Education Act, with amendments from 2008, 2010, 2012, 2012 and 2013, we have seen that there are a number of problems both in the transparency of the work of higher education institutions and in obtaining licences for the work and accreditation of the same, as well as in the recognition of foreign higher education documents, the establishment of a single IT system, the inability to enroll foreign students from EU countries to higher education institutions in student status which has been financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia since the date of accession of our country of the EU, in danger and the risk of corruption in managing the possibility of recruiting non-work relationship associates, and in accordance with the needs of a higher education institution, as well as a number of others. I would personally like to commend these legal solutions in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, and, as a student of doctoral studies of the Faculty of Electronic Studies, I would particularly like to commend the construction of a single IT system, the obligation to establish a digital repository in which defenses of doctoral dissertation will be kept, as well as the establishment of the obligation of higher education institutions to make available to the public a doctoral dissertation prior to its defence. It is also important to create opportunities for a foreign citizen student to test through electronic communications if full control of student identification and work is provided. From you, Minister, I expect a fully responsible approach both in determining the conditions and method of passing exams through electronic communications and in controlling the transparency of laying them. It is also very important to facilitate the job of recognising diploma, which is only a small step for all of us, and a major shift in the adoption of a more efficient higher education system for young people in the Republic of Serbia. In the past, this procedure lasted months, and many of these finished students are just asking to be recognized as a diploma so they can start working in our country, not even looking for a job, but wanting to form some new business environments themselves. We also discussed the problem of recognising the diploma during the term of office of Minister of Education Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, whose team has actually proposed this proposal. We had here in the Assembly a public hearing on the subject in early 2013. The proposed solutions will also contribute greatly to raising the quality of doctoral studies and to facilitating the submission of joint projects and scientific works by colleagues at universities and institutes. As young people, we must strive to promote lifelong learning through the implementation of the Bologna process, to develop measures that increase the employment of finished students, including self-employment through entrepreneurship, then adapt study programmes to labour market requirements, introduce mobility as a key element affecting both quality and availability of study and many others. It is good to introduce in new legal solutions the definition and strategy of education by 2012, which we adopted here in the Parliament of October 2012 and which should be the basis for all other legal definitions. I believe that you, ministers, as well as the competent ministry, will propose good quality and effective legal solutions in terms of not only high, but also secondary and primary education for all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. For all these reasons, the SPS MPs will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8458	Thank you, Miss Dinic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8459	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we will all agree that the adoption of the Law on Higher Education as the roof law on education is one of the most important laws adopted in this House. I believed, Mr. Minister, that on the day we chose the government and you believed that you would make this plan out to the public very soon. I believed in that moment that you had the strength and energy to do what you were saying at that moment, which is reform law. However, we are witnessing that this is another law that has its own cosmetics and what is the correction or correction of many of the laws that we have passed in the past few weeks and then the question is whether you believe in the reforms that you spoke of or will continue this path you called the evolution of education, which I hope is correct and that it is in agreement with the Education Development Strategy in Serbia, which was done two years ago, by 2020? I believe that today, after four months of your work, you have a different angle of view. I am aware of the atmosphere in which this law and the limitations that exist in the adoption of this law concerning both you and your team. I believe you have good intentions, but I also believe that all the problems that are happening at this point, such as the poor functioning of private schools, false diplomas to a large extent, fake doctorates, the poor position of educators, affect how you plan this law. You mentioned an important term in your presentation, which is motivation. That's what I want to remind you and I want to believe that you know that motivation is a key factor in people who are in this process, and in this case, it's educational workers, and if they're satisfied with this law and any other bill will have its chance. However, if you remain silent when the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, stands up and speaks for the speaker, which is related to the material position of the workers and amounts to the untrueness of their earnings in the period from 2010, then I rightly doubt that you have the strength, courage or will...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8460	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8461	... to stand up to that concept. I have a proposition here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8462	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. You're running out of time, I'm afraid. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8463	Can I have another sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8465	So, Mr. Minister, I would like to invite you to look at this proposal, i.e. a review of the earnings of primary and secondary school educators, which precisely determines that, in the period from 2008 to 2012, and until 2014, there was no increase in the salary of primary and secondary education staff, i.e. after six years in the period 2008 to 2014 and earnings were reduced both in euro and in real terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8466	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8467	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the current government has been working for the last four months to adopt system solutions, amend system laws and bring European values into line in Serbia. Such a proposal today is an amendment to the Law on Higher Education. As is known, the Bologna Declaration was signed in 1999 to create a unique education system in Europe. In 2003, Serbia signed the Bologna Declaration, and in 2005 it was implemented by voting in this House of the Law on Higher Education. For the past nine years, a series of problems have arisen as regards the implementation of the laws of this law. However, with minor changes they are trying to change. To solve all problems, it took political will in order to make a comprehensive change here or in the extreme sense and to change the entire law. Unfortunately, today we have a situation where because of this attitude towards education, when high education is a question, only about getting diplomas. As the minister mentioned in more of his speeches, the aim of higher education should be to gain knowledge in order to be competitive in the labour market. That is why today we have this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education just to contribute to the systemic solution of changes in higher education. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in my next speech, I will look mainly at the problems we had in the accreditation of higher education institutions and the solutions this law offers. The accreditation process began for the first time in 2006, so a year after the vote of the Higher Education Act, and since then, several problems have been identified that we can narrowly address in four key problems. It is, number one, that the process of accreditation of institutions that are just being established has not been well resolved. Furthermore, in some cases, we had a situation that the accreditation process could have lasted indefinitely and never actually ended. The accreditation process was not transparent enough, as well as that there were legal gaps, which allowed some institutions to work and enroll students even in those situations when they did not receive accreditation for their work. Due to all this, the university public and the Anti-Corruption Agency have suggested that certain amendments to the Law on Higher Education take place. These changes are a step further in fixing the Serbian education system, in line with the Education Strategy in Serbia by 2020. What is the meaning of these amendments to the law when it comes to accreditation? A deadline shall be introduced for the completion of the accreditation process, 12 months from the date of submission, i.e. the orderly request sent. A 90-day deadline shall be introduced for the decision of the National Council in the appeal procedure and this shall prevent the delay of the accreditation process, as has been possible so far. It is clearly defined that accreditation ceases to apply unless a five-year-old higher education institution submits a new accreditation request. The ministry is required to adopt a solution that will withdraw the work permit within three days. A higher school institution, which was granted a work permit, can apply for a new permit after a year. This change filled the legal gap that existed in the previous law resolution, which made it impossible for institutions to work on the expiry of accreditation. The amendments to the law also provide for an increase in the responsibilities of the members of the accreditation committee, and what is crucial in these amendments and additions is that the transparency and the public of the work of the Commission is increased, as this new proposal also requires that the Commission's report on the accreditation of the institution or student programme, in addition to being submitted to the National Council, be permanently placed on the Commission's website, as well as that the annual report on the work of the Commission, other than the National Council, be delivered to the National Assembly. Higher education institutions will have to make available public doctoral dissertation before defence, and universities will also have to form a public digital repository. What is still a positive side of these amendments to the law is that the information systems will give everyone a proper insight into the education system, because they will also contain information about teachers and students, and all they need is that both students and teachers will have, when it comes to doctorates, on the insight of doctoral papers that will be placed in electronic form. As is known, the prime minister said in his exposé that one of the government's main goals would be to strengthen Serbia's education system. Here, first of all, he thinks of higher education institutions. Because of all the above and these positive things that these amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, we have before us today, the SNS will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8468	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8469	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are discussing amendments and amendments to the laws concerning higher education, but I would take this opportunity to briefly refer to our education as a whole. I think we are all very well aware of the fact that our education system is in such a state that there are not enough segmentary changes, but that one comprehensive approach is needed, one comprehensive reform, in order to restore quality and order to our education system. The goal is, above all, to return to education, to return some real criteria to our educational institutions. I think these are categories that are classic, that are always current and that can never be overcome at any time. Also, what I'd like to point out is that dignity should be restored to the profession of teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, because these are people whose rights are seriously compromised in some way, so I think it's definitely an area of work. It is the only way that our educational institutions become in the right sense of a place where young people can learn how to learn on their own, and not that private teachers do so in their place, because it is really necessary for them to make one mental effort themselves, because that's the only point that they can really grow up one day in a circle, mature individuals who are able to self-inference, to think for themselves one day, to become creative young people who are not afraid to take the initiative. When amendments are proposed and the Higher Education Act is complemented, they are resolved and solutions are offered for some burning problems in our higher education. One of those problems is the problem of accreditation. What I'd like to mention if it's accreditation, it's being taken care of, so deadlines are being introduced, which I think is very important for a number of reasons. One of these reasons is that it reduces the maximum potential for abuse, possible abuse of corruption because it practically reduces this maneuvering area for the abuse of legal regulations. The time limit for the accreditation process is 12 months from the day of proper admission, so the commission decides on it as a special working body which is educated by the National Council. Of course, it does from the ranks of prominent professors, prominent artists, meaning people who really deserve to be members of that commission. The term of office shall take four years, and one person may be elected as a member of the commission no more than twice. Likewise, as it elects them, the National Council has the right to discharge the duties of a member of the commission, of course under specific conditions. I would point out that condition that I think is most important, which is unless there is some valid reason why the accreditation process has come to an end within a legally defined time limit. I think it's very positive because it's finally going to take responsibility, take responsibility, take action, and end up having consequences if someone doesn't do their job properly. I think it's very positive and that in all segments we should go in that direction. Again, unless the commission approves the accreditation law, the high school institution has the right to appeal and appeal within 30 days. It shall appeal to the National Council for which it decides within 90 days. I purposely highlight these figures to point out that it is a very precise timing, that each party knows what time period it has, and that order is introduced into this area. What I would further point out is that, in a positive way, it insists on the principle of transparency. One of these visions is that the commission is bound to do public work. At least once a year he is obliged to submit a report to the National Council, which must again be made public, and the National Council is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly, so that everything leads to the commission's work being public. So that doesn't need to be particularly emphasized. When it comes to transparency, high school institutions are obliged to provide information on how they finance them, so as to avoid any mystification about how they finance, how the amount of tuition is financed. When it comes to tuition, I would take this opportunity to appeal that we are all aware of the problems of oscillation at the level of tuition, and that this is an area that needs to be seriously worked out. The recognition of foreign diplomas, short, is an area that has so far not been well defined by legislation, which has been a problem for all young people who have acquired a degree abroad, who want to return and work in their country. Now is a very precise way, but also deadlines, when it comes to the recognition of diplomas acquired abroad, which I am sure will encourage many young people, who have acquired a degree abroad, to return, live and work in their own country, without being discouraged, burdened with long, distressing waiting, doubting whether and when their diplomas will be recognised, as has been the case so far. At the very end, I can't look back on one phenomenon that is very well known in our higher education, and before which we can't close our eyes, which is the fact that in a certain time period some higher, higher schools that are open with one goal – how quickly and easily to get to a diploma, you'll assume, of course, without learning. Unfortunately, it is a reality in Serbia. We have to face this reality. We can't close our eyes and we need to start a serious fight against such phenomena. What's most important is, without delay, because if that happens, we lose a lot of time, we waste valuable time, and we can't afford that luxury. I think the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law is a good step in that direction, and that's why it will be supported by the SNS in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8470	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8471	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, honourable members of the ministry, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will try to be really brief. A lot's been said today. The minister has answered many questions, but I would like to give some of my short aspect of this law. I support the amendments made to the Sixth Law on Higher Education, which introduces an obligation to respect the principle of openness towards the public and citizens. This is particularly important in high school institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia. Since certain higher schools did not purposely spend their own revenues or even budgets, order should be introduced into the budget financing of individual institutions and student programmes. When it comes to funding institutions, financing the material costs of higher school institutions should take place on the pre-defined criteria, which would be transparent and accessible to the public court. High school institutions, especially those whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, should publicly publish data on both the amount of appropriations allocated and the amount of their own income, and part of their own revenues should be allocated to finance their own material costs. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the need to establish unambiguous criteria for assessing the market justification of study programmes and to finance budget positions for students of those study programmes for whom there is a demand on the labour market. Why would the state, the question arise, be financed from its budget by a student who has been defined as studying industrial management, if there is a huge number of registered unemployed persons in this area, that is, there is no real demand on the market for this profile? On the other hand, if there is a real demand on the labour market for, say, database administrators, and no state-level higher school institution offers such a study programme, the state could reroute budgets to another private higher school institution that has such programmes. All that I have cited would affect competition in high school institutions themselves and the fight for permanent innovation of study programmes in line with labour market needs, which can only contribute to improving the quality of education. In addition, the amendment of the law in Article 25(5) relating to the introduction of masters of professional studies, and what has been said today, is expected logical and in line with the high school system in European countries. However, this law or accreditation standards should provide that accreditation of masters of professional studies is subject to compliance with certain conditions. I think the basic precondition for the accreditation of masters of vocational studies should be developed research work on a higher education institution that conducts vocational studies. Finally, a brief comment, i.e. to state one of the problems whose solution was offered by an earlier amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, is now in this final proposal, which is the recognition of foreign higher education documents. The proposed solution is in line with the solutions present in most of the countries in the environment. Equality of foreign high school documents is a very serious procedure that can vary depending on whether equalisation is carried out in terms of continuing studies or for employment purposes. In particular, it is a serious procedure when equating is done for employment. In most countries in the environment, the work is carried out by a forward ministry or a centre for the recognition of foreign high school documents that formulate unique criteria. In order to recognise these documents, it defines the necessary documentation and procedure for the recognition of foreign high school documents. That was a brief comment. Of course, in the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8472	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if anyone wants to exercise his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8473	Dear MPs, I would briefly like to draw your attention to an act that has been unjustly neglected in our society. The work we have long since been in Europe that meets all the standards, which is recognised and which works as well as in any other European country. It's about science. And today we have very little time, almost nothing to focus on, we will not do what is very important, it is a confirmation of the Horizon 2020 Agreement signed in Brussels on July 1st of this year and which represents the continuation of the framework project seven that we entered in 2007 and which we used very successfully. This largest fund for science in the history of 80 billion euros has the opportunity for our country to participate equally with all other European countries or EU countries. Activities, preparatory activities for the use of this programme began on January 1st of this year. We already have serious promotional activities and to help all scientific and research institutions and scientists make the best use of this. Please confirm an agreement signed in Brussels two months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-04-0.u8474	I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have conducted a joint principle and uniform search on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I hereby set Thursday 4 September 2014 starting at 17.40 a.m. as a day for voting on the 2nd item of the agenda of this session, i.e. the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system in the hall, 154 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of ambassadors are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. As we now move to a decision on the draft law on the approval of the international agreement, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been submitted to this proposal for the law, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on this proposal. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union in the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the European Union's Horizon 2020 programme - the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020), in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 159 against – there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted – two MPs from a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Thank you. Resume session tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 79 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Vladeta Kostic, Miroslav Markicevic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Vesna Besarović and Dr. Ivan Bauer. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the light of the joint principled review on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I invited the sittings to attend: Ivana Savicevic, Natalija Pavlovic - Šinović, Tatjana Zeljković, Jelena Parezović, Milos Popović, representatives of the Office of Deputy Prime Ministers. I would also like to inform you that you have accepted Gordana Stamenic's resignation as Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 37(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I find Gordana Stamenic has resigned as deputy general secretary of the National Assembly. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint review of the proposals referred to in points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm asking the MPs' groups to submit a list of speakers. According to Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Civil Servants and Deputys, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration. Does the proposing representative, Dr Kori Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
