ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please ask the ambassadors to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Friday, beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, a proposal to supplement the agenda and a proposal to merge the debate. The government proposed that the draft Energy Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2014, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – 6 abstentions – no, 12 of the 151 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group has proposed that the draft decision on amendments and additions to the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 134 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 147 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 147 of the total of 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 122 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the law on planning and building be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – six abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for implementing European Union financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II), which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 12 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. A group of 123 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Group suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights over buildings built without a building permit, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – nine, abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the total 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure proposed to the National Assembly that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I propose that the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was sent to the National Assembly by MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself, on 26 September this year, be included in the agenda of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Your Honor, three months ago. With this proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, we propose to Members of the People to be Article 4. The Law on Higher Education, which defines the principles of higher education, adds a very important principle on which a system of higher education, a modern democratic state, must be based, and this is a respected gentlemen principle of academic integrity. I remind you that among the principles of higher education in Article 4. The law on higher education cites – academic freedoms, autonomy, unity of teaching and scientific research, i.e. artistic work, openness to the public and citizens, respect for the humanistic and democratic values of national and European traditions and values of cultural heritage, respect for human rights and civil freedoms, including the prohibition of all aspects of discrimination, compliance with the European system of higher education and the improvement of academic mobility, teaching staff and students, participation of students in management and decision-making in particular regarding issues that are relevant to quality of teaching respected gentlemen, equality of higher education institutions, regardless of the form of property, i.e. who is the founder, affirmation of competition of education and research services in order to increase the quality and efficiency of the higher education system, quality and efficiency of education. We believe that as the 12th principle, one of the principles of the higher education system in Serbia should be academic honesty. If we, gentlemen, agreed here to open the debate and on academic honesty as an important principle of the higher education system, we would send two important messages – firstly that the legislative body joins a kind of resistance to the destruction of the academic community that comes in a terrible attack by the executive authority. Secondly, we would like to tell young people who are just entering the world of science and research to be worth honest scientific and research work, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18806	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, v – two, abstention – no one voted 139 MPs from the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Katarina Rakic, based on Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that a joint principled single search be carried out in the draft Energy Law, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction Planning, the Bill on Amendments and the Law on Parent Books, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Specific Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for the implementation of EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia in the Framework Instrument for Accession Assistance and under two – does National MP Katarina Rakic want to speak? No, I don't. I thank you. Here you go. Wait a minute, now sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18807	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that you have injured Article 27, which states that it is the obligation of the President of the Assembly to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure to Article 157(2). I will read another National Assembly can decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws that are on the agenda of the same session, and they are conditioned or the solutions in them are interrelated, with decisions on each proposal being made separately. I ask you – how are mutually conditioned or related solutions between the draft Energy Act submitted by the Government, the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Home Books also submitted by the Government, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Law on Construction Planning by a Group of People's MPs three days ago, the Proposal for an amendment to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Specific Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit submitted by 123 MPs two days ago and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission which submitted the Government two days ago. So, in no way are these decisions of these laws interlinked and conditional upon each other, and we cannot conduct a joint principle search if you put this on the agenda and you will violate Article 27. The Rules of Procedure which obliges you to take care of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, you have to stop and reject it. At the previous session, we had a joint search of 12 laws that were interlinked and conditioned and we did not make this remark. Today, there are laws on the agenda that have no relationship with each other. The only wish and your intention is to finish this in two days. I'm sorry, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure. When you change the Rules of Procedure and put that obligation to end in two days, then you can put this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18808	Your time is up, according to the Rules of Procedure. Don't yell, the microphones are working perfectly. I hear you, there's no need. The elevated tone does not solve anything in parliament and in our society. So if we can talk without yelling at anyone among us. That's my request to you. Secondly, you know the Rules of Procedure well, I note, the MP has used his right to propose something to Parliament under Article 92(2) and Article 157(2) and Article 170. It is the president's duty to put the motion to the vote. Don't wave heads, it's the president's duty to put the motion to a vote. An emissary throws it away. All right, I know you don't care, you said that to get the press to write something down, and what the president is going to say doesn't really matter. You can't answer that. Please be cultural, a little culture to finish the sentence. I was taught to wait in the family to answer something. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I too have been taught in the family a lot of nice things, I only refer to Article 27) Can I finish my sentence? Be nice. You don't have to wave your hands, there's no need. May I have your answer, may I have your letter? Marko Djurisic, of course. I thank you for allowing me to answer your question. So MP Katarina Rakic used her right based on provisions that the Rules of Procedure allow, to propose something to parliament, and to parliament to decide whether or not to adopt its proposal. It is the President's duty that when it determines the agenda, to put on the agenda as it put on the agenda for the sixtyth time to declare whether the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education should be included or not. Parliament has the power to determine whether or not it will. Now we're going to keep working on the procedure. Do you want us to vote on what is obviously not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but again, parliament will say whether or not it is. Not you, not me, but Parliament. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. We'll vote on it. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18809	The Honorable Chairman, you've injured Article 106. You spoke of the proposal by Mr Đurisic, a MP who has advertised the obvious violation and violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is a fundamental violation of the Rules of Procedure in which you combine the incompatible points of the agenda of the incompatible legislators and all of this by the laws that have nothing to do with it, that he has done so in order for journalists to write something, not because he really believes that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. You thus demean the activities of the MPs, thus the Assembly. You said someone was yelling. The opposition's MPs must shout to hear them at all and to hear themselves because the MPs of the position during the time we explain our views speak to each other, they cry out, etc. You of course talk to your colleagues upstairs at the bench, etc. You're not paying attention to what we're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18810	I'm sorry, it's not the teammates, it's the secretary general and the deputy in charge of helping the president in his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18811	I understand, because you don't know how to get out of this situation because you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and you have to consult and that's normal. Please do not deceive the public when you speak in a microphone, speaking to the public, not to the MPs here. So no one yelled because they were yelling at him, but because they couldn't speak, and no one wanted to say something for the press, but because of you, to warn you that you were violating the Rules of Procedure, and obviously you are breaking it because the points of the agenda that are not possible are connected, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18812	I appreciate what you said. I won't comment on that. Of course, Article 106 speaks a hundredth of what you wanted to say. Article 106 speaks only of the agenda. We don't have a agenda point. We haven't adopted the agenda yet. So you broke the Rules of Procedure, but that's not possible. (Janko Veselinović, from 107.) You said 106. I apologize. It was only about 106. We'll be very specific to the public for the sake of the MPs sitting here listening to what we're talking about before we move to the agenda. As for the second part where you said the MP was right, so let MP Katarina Rakic also have the right to use Article 92 and Article 157(2) and Article 170. Someone may like it or not like it, but Member Katarina Rakic used her right. I hope all 250 MPs have the right to exercise their rights in the Rules of Procedure and that no one can forbid them. The chairman and parliament speaker will certainly not defend them from using their rights. As for Article 157, it is well written and clearly written, which you read very well, it says - The Assembly can decide, so let's wait a moment for the National Assembly to decide or not. I'm a lawyer, someone may not be, doesn't know well enough to interpret the Rules of Procedure, and that's not against you, because we're representatives of the citizens, not the professional association here. So, they're elected top of the list of parliamentary groups by citizens' votes. So it's no offense if someone doesn't know how to interpret the Rules of Procedure well. Here you go. Shall we vote on Parliamental Veselinovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure, 106? (Janko Veselinović, from 107.) I apologize. You've been talking for two minutes about article 106. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Can I speak? Make a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18813	Yes, and it was article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18814	No, we can't do any corrections after your debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18815	How did you do... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18816	You didn't get a word in to discuss it. The application of the Rules of Procedure is only a matter which you are very happy to warn the President of Parliament, so I am trying. Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There's no beginning. Katarina Rakic doesn't want a word. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from Parliament of Katarina Rakic on the merger of the debate. Here you go. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, 15 of the total attendance of 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, on a proposal to supplement the agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, 13 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 12th session of the Second Regular Session, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 as a whole. Dn e v n ir e d 1. Proposal for a Energy Act, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, which was submitted by a group of 122 MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party Group; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parent Books, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, which was submitted by a group of 123 MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party Group; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for implementing the European Union's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA II), which was submitted by the Government; We are moving to work on a set agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Aleksandar Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy, Dr Kori Udovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Jadranka Joksimović, Minister without portfolio, Master Mirjana Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Milovan Filimović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Prof. Dr. Milos Banjac, Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy, Ana Ilic, Deputy Director of the Office for European Integration, Olivera Gudžulić, Head of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Neda Mijatović Bojanović, Head of the Department of System Management in the Ministry of Energy in the Ministry of Energy and Energy, and Olga Antić Michinović, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law on Energy, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Original Books, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Specific Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for the implementation of EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II). Do they want the word "representatives" and "proposer"? Call in what order you want. Here you go. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18817	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this debate in principle, allow me to make a few preliminary remarks on the proposed amendments to the Law on Parent Book, which was adopted in 2009, which introduced a number of significant newspapers into this area of state administration. The bill, which will be discussed today in the National Assembly, has been prepared, on the one hand, to comply with the provisions of the other law, and on the other hand to ensure the necessary conditions for the full automation of the parent books that have been conducted solely in paper form. In particular, the provisions of the Law on Parent Books which regulate the conditions for the performance of the work of the Matrimonials need to be brought into line with the amendments to the Law on State Administration, which the National Assembly adopted this year, in terms of the conditions that a civil servant must fulfil - to give authority, to conduct the administrative procedure, and to decide on the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons. It is proposed that the necessary harmonisation of the conditions for the performance of the parent business with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Administration of 2014, so that the parent, i.e. the deputy parent, may be a person who has acquired a higher education in basic academic studies in the scope of at least 180 ECPB points in basic vocational studies, i.e. in studies of three years of social direction. Also, in order to ensure full automation of parent books and the keeping of a second copy of the parent books, with the exclusive application of modern means of processing and storage of data, it is necessary to extend the time limit for the fulfilment of the prescribed obligation of public authority holders of city and municipal administrations in which they would, as a whole, carry out the content of a second copy of the parent books in electronic form to the Ministry of State Administration's tasks. In accordance with the 2009 Home Books Act, the Ministry of State Administration's prescribed period of two years introduced a central system for electronic processing and data storage and keeping of a second copy of the parent books, and until now all units of local self-government have joined the central system, entrusted with the affairs of bookkeeping. However, as a result of the adoption of this law, a second copy of the parent books is led exclusively in the form of a hard link book and that the parent books are not only kept in the seat of the municipal, or city administration, but also in the home areas determined by the municipalities, one number of bodies entrusted with the affairs of the parent books so far have not achieved the degree of automation necessary to be able, within a period of five years, to complete in general the prescribed obligation to conduct the second copy electronically. It should be noted that the extension of the deadline is proposed after a detailed analysis. The results achieved so far in this area, namely the entire process of accessing municipal and urban administrations to the central system and delivering data from the parent books to this system, has been realised phased out and has been conditioned by previous technical assumptions for the management of parent books in electronic form and their integration into a unique information system. The largest number of municipal and urban administrations has accessed the central system within the last two years of the prescribed deadline, but regardless of the fact, of the total 1,673 parent areas, 1.154 is already in the central system, i.e. two-thirds of the total number of parent areas. In addition, out of the 113.350 parent books held in the Republic of Serbia, data were entered into the central system for 61,969, with a total of 17.90,000 entries. If all parent books do not have the same number of entries and no data in the central system are entered in the data from the parent books which have a significantly smaller number of entries compared to the parent books from which data have already been provided, the proposed extension is realistic for the overall achievement of the target set, the full automation of the parent books. I would also like to say that the proposed deadline is also in line with the current draft strategy and action plan for the introduction of the electronic administration, so that, within the next two years, full electronicisation of the parent books will be achieved on time and for the introduction of a complete electronic administration into Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18818	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18819	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, it is indeed my pleasure today to present a proposal for a law confirming a framework agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Commission on rules implementing EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia, in the framework of pre-accession assistance instruments, etc. IPA 2, which is very important. It seems to me that sometimes there may be a lack of understanding as to how important the pre-accession aid that the EU has been providing to the Republic of Serbia for years and which it will continue to provide in this negotiation process and as long as Serbia is a candidate until full membership, when, of course, opportunities are opened for even greater and more significant means to support structural reforms. It is my real pleasure to present today, for the reason that we have succeeded in adopting the draft law at the government and, hopefully, in the Assembly, adopt the draft law on the framework agreement, as soon as possible and as the first country of the region. This shows that we have rightly understood the importance that EU pre-accession funds have for us, as well as the importance of effective and responsible use... I'm sorry, President, I can't hear myself, if you could just... President?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18820	What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18821	I'm sorry, I really am, I'm just, I'm not hearing it. I don't want to get used to the MPs. If I'm not interested in people in the National Assembly, MPs, I believe I'm interested in the citizens, and I really don't want to yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18822	You can't hear it in the transmission. I keep appealing to the MPs, all 250.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18823	So, let's just clarify the basic elements of the framework agreement, and which is why it's important that we're really spot-on and, I think, in a record-breaking time, we've managed to sign this framework agreement. This shows, once again, the importance that we attach as a state and understand the resources that we receive as a candidate country from the EU, as well as our wish and indeed the most sincere intention to approach the use of these funds in the most efficient way and in the most responsible way. This Framework Agreement, of course, to point out that I speak as a national IPA coordinator who, acting as European Integration Minister, exists, is a framework agreement between the European Commission and RS in detail governing the rules for the use of a new Instrument of Pre-Accession Assistance called IPA 2 and relating to the 7-year period from 2014 to 2020. IPA 1 covered the period from 2007 to 2013. This is a new multi-annual set of mechanisms that define how to use pre-accession aid instruments. Through this IPA 2 programme, the European Commission will actually channel development aid to the Republic of Serbia. Since the rules of use of the instruments are very specific, as much as the European Commission requires adoption of one, and not only adoption, but really the establishment of one special system and different bodies and structures themselves, especially control mechanisms, in order to ensure a dedicated and efficient use of grants, it is really necessary to introduce in our domestic legal system all the rules of this instrument without exception. Once again, that's why it's important that we did this at an early stage. This actually means that it is necessary for this framework agreement to be confirmed, i.e. ratified in the form of laws in the National Assembly and as such become part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This was, of course, done for the previous period, for IPA 1 from 2007 to 2013. At the end of August 2014, the European Commission adopted a model of a framework agreement which is one-brave for all IPA 2 users, which, of course, prepared a version of the framework agreement for the Republic of Serbia and submitted it to the domestic institutions. On 19 December 2014, the RS government adopted the text of the framework agreement and authorised the national IPA coordinator to sign it, I signed it on December 23rd, and we discussed the draft session of the Government and established a proposal for a law confirming this framework agreement, which was addressed to the National Assembly to consider the urgent procedure. What I would also like to point out is that right before the government session on that day, so on December 23rd, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we also held a public hearing on the subject of IPA 2, where the representatives of the non-governmental sector and all the interested MPs were actually speaking, so, on the other hand, I think that we have also managed to respect the powers of the National Assembly and, of course, to organise one, I cannot say to the debate, but certainly public listening that is not less significant. The basic reason, I would only explain that, which is why the Government is proposing to the National Assembly that this law be adopted by emergency procedure and in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as I mentioned, is the necessity to establish within the shortest time a legal basis for the use of funds already approved by the European Commission to the Republic of Serbia and in the framework of the IPA 2014 programme. This is particularly important because the European Commission adopted the Action Programme for the Republic of Serbia for the 2014 programming year, which is usually the first programming year under IPA 2. Despite 115m euros in grants that will focus on the various sectoral priorities that our country has been running for, the European Commission approved 62m euros under the IPA 2014, exclusively for recovery and recovery after the floods that hit us in May. And that is why it is very important that we adopt this framework agreement as soon as possible so that we can, in particular these 62 million that are already programmed for flood recovery, start using it as soon as possible. The preparation of specific actions to finance the recovery priorities after the IPA 2014 flood was otherwise adopted and carried out following an accelerated procedure during the summer and autumn of this year, in August and September of the month, and in agreement with the European Commission, we agreed implementation mechanisms to allow for the accelerated implementation of these projects. The same goes for the additional 10m euros approved by the European Commission to Serbia under the regional support instrument, i.e. multi-user IPA for 2014. Therefore, these are the reasons why we have proposed adoption by emergency procedure, so that we can really immediately access the use of the funds that the EU has approved for us. This is, once again, because of Serbian citizens, to repeat, the EU's grants, and this allocation is really very large and significant. This is a total of 62 plus 10, so 72m euros in grants for the recovery of floods from IPA 2014 and others, as I said, are aimed at various sectoral reforms for 2014. Since this proposal for a law on the validation of the Framework Agreement also fulfils the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and is in line with EU rules, and that there are indeed, I think you will all agree, the objective reasons for our country's urgency and interest to apply this mechanism as soon as possible, I think that the reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure. The European Commission has also prepared a Framework Agreement for IPA 2 for the Republic of Serbia, starting with several EU regulations that represent secondary sources of law. This is a Regulation of the Council of Ministers and of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers Regulation and of the European Parliament laying down common rules and procedures for the implementation of Union instruments financed by its external action and IPA 2 implementing Regulation with specific rules for implementing IPA 2. Of course, in the course of today's discussion, I will be open to clarify all that is contentive and in relation to the funds of this Framework Agreement. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18824	Thank you. The word has Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18825	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to an additional explanation of the Energy Bill, I would just like to inform the MPs and the public that I have just come from the Colubara with a copy of the Tamnava-West Field, where with the Prime Minister, I have attended the start of coal production on that of the largest and most significant spear, that from today our energy balances are richer for the new 10,000 tonnes of coal and that from today we can say that in the field of energy we are all those capacities that have been threatened and affected by the floods brought into order and that from today on all our energy facilities and in all the kopete production. This is, of course, important for the future of our country and this is also an important economic result. These 10,000 tonnes of coal we're going to produce daily from the Tamnava-West Field spear, when it turns into a financial value, is about 250,000 euros a day, or seven and a half million euros a month. Given that we have brought this spear into operation to produce this amount of coal at least five months before those first estimates we had by the World Bank, it is clear that we have succeeded in working hard, primarily employees in Kolubara and their partners participating in the business, to save about 40m euros for this country. It is an extremely important thing for me as a minister, but I also think for all citizens of Serbia. What we are, of course, here today is the question of the Energy Act. The Energy Act is the highest legal act in the field of energy, by which we define our country's policy, objectives and ways of achieving this policy in the field of energy. Simply, this law defines the energy future of our country, the functioning of all energy subjects and energy markets. I will be free to say that the proposed law represents a significant qualitative step towards the current law adopted in 2011 and that it is as such trying to respond to all the challenges and changes in the field of energy both domestic and international. The law is the basis for ensuring security and quality energy supply, improving the energy efficiency process, improving the investment environment, complying with EU standards and enabling international energy obligations to be implemented. I have to do a little depression and remind myself that Serbia in the field of energy may have taken the most step towards European integration, that we are part of the Energy Community and that, as such, as signatories of these international agreements, we are obliged to apply rules, regulations and energy directives of the EU. I must say that as of 1 January 2015, since we are obliged to apply those directives from the third energy package, by adopting this law we provide, and it is an important thing because we show the seriousness of the state to meet those obligations that we sign and which we accept. I must say that we are, by all accounts, and in the end I will read the letter of the Energy Community, the only country in the region that has made it. I truly believe that this legislative project is an unquestionably reform law, with a reform character, with the aim of significantly improving the energy sector. The law improves the energy security of the state and security and improvement for all citizens of Serbia. First of all, by improving the conditions for the supply of energy, secure supply and protection of electricity customers, as well as by building new energy facilities, it tries to organise and maintain the functioning of the electricity market, establish ownership of system operators' networks, encourage the use of renewable energy sources, define the position of the Energy Agency, as well as all other entities relevant for the performance of energy performance in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this law is to allow for a more favourable and secure investment environment through a reliable regulatory framework, a reduction of administrative procedures, as well as a clear definition of the conditions, rights and obligations and mutual relations of energy entities, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, as well as those coming from private sectors. The law without any dilemma opens a door wide for investment in energy, one of Serbia's most prospective economic branches and for which there is a strong interest in foreign investors. I think I can feel free to say that if there is one area in Serbia's social and economic environment where there is no lack of investment and lack of investors, it is an area of energy. At this point, we have a large number of investors working on the realisation of different projects, but also a large number of investors coming from Europe, from all over the world and literally asking us to give them any projects if there is and if there is our economic interest in realising these projects. Unfortunately, this moment is not the most suitable for such an investment policy because of the low market price of electricity and such projects at the moment have one, to say, slowed down this feasibility study, but we are, of course, working to monitor all these trends and without any dilemma, the time ahead will bring new energy projects. A few days ago, we signed a loan agreement with China's Exima Bank, and Serbia will receive its first major energy facility in almost 30 years. We have moved far away in activities related to the Stavalj mine and a new thermoblock of about 300, 350 megawatts in that part of Serbia. We are doing a serious project related to the expansion of coal production in the Kovin mine with the option of building a new energy facility as well. If we add to this a policy of incentives that the Republic of Serbia has in the area of renewable energy sources and about tariffs for some, for facilities for more than 1,000 megawatts of installed power, regardless of whether they come from wind energy, solar energy, from hydropotentials or biomass, we can clearly see that there is a serious investment cycle ahead of Serbia over the next few years. It is an area of energy that, without any doubt, will lead to this and that Serbia has enough electricity in front of us in time and that we meet those of our international obligations on the need for 27% of electricity we spend from renewable sources. I must say that this law in the past weeks and months has been in serious public interest both domestic experts and the international public that one of the first issues that we have had from the president of all foreign investors and diplomatic and representatives from their countries is at any time a new energy law will be passed. Since the issue came from EU countries and from the president of Russian, US, Chinese companies, from the president of the largest international financial institutions, the World Bank and the BRD, we also had these issues at the last Serbian-Chinese Forum, I think all this says that this law had great importance and that there are great expectations of the adoption of the law itself. I truly believe, since, above all, the policy of this government is turned to the economy, the future of the country and turned to creating a better investment environment, above all I believe that this law will improve the investment climate, bring domestic and foreign promoters, and, of course, this is a place to create new jobs, which is a priority for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law represents, as I said, a serious step in harmonising our standards with EU standards. This law is the basis for the fulfilment and full application of our obligations under the third EU regulation package, which came into force in 2011 with our obligation to apply it from 1 January 2015. This third package includes respect for a series of directives and regulations regulating the rules on the internal electricity market, cross-border exchange of electricity, strengthening independent regulatory bodies such as the Energy Agency, as well as promoting primarily renewable energy sources, since one of the EU's directives is particularly a decision of the Energy Council of October 2012 which Serbia is bound by, as I said by 2020, we have a share of consumption and of 27% from renewable sources. I don't want to convince you now what we could read in the reasoning of the law, but I want your attention to a few elements. The first important element for me is to strengthen the institutional role of the Energy Agency as an independent regulatory body, with a very significant position in the system of state institutions. Giving more independence and independence, but also empowerment to work. This agency is not only about meeting our international obligations but also about winning the profession over daily policy. And it represents the victory of a long-term strategy for the development of Serbia's energy system compared to everything on a daily basis that seems less or more affirmative. The law confirms but also extends the scope of authority to the Agency and practically gives it full sovereignty in determining the price of electricity, as well as gas. Of course, the price of access to gas and oil transport, as well as the cost of connections to the transmission and distribution system, as well as the granting of consent to all rules on the operation of the electricity, oil and gas markets as well as rules on the operation of all transmission and distribution systems. Indeed, a wide range of powers that I repeat to this most professional body that must be fully independent gives powers that provide us with who we can say we are leading the government and you who represent the legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. So that gives us one certainty that all of these processes that are important for the country's energy stability and security are being carried out with one super vision that, I must point out, is expert. As the second element of this law, which is extremely important, I must mention strengthening regulation in the area of renewable energy sources. The proposed energy law promotes renewable energy sources and regulates the legislative framework by giving above all to investors who are dominant in the area of renewables greater legal certainty. So now I'm just gonna go by the thesis after I seem to have paid off. The law adopts several significant newspapers in the area of renewable sources. One is that for the first time in Serbia, a single model of an electricity buy-in contract was introduced or as they famously call it PPA, but I can freely say that it seems to me that this law had the necessary amount of courage to allow investor safety in that segment so that they could count on the same conditions to apply to their investments from the start of construction until the end of the investment cycle. A significant difference compared to the previous law, especially the law that was in force before 2011 is that the investor had previously given himself to a huge risk between spending tens of millions of euros and the public supplier's guarantee that all produced electricity would be bought. That's why we don't have big renewable projects today, and that's why we're going to have them after this law is passed. The new law allows for the conclusion of a contract with investors who have obtained building permits and provided financial guarantees, thus obtaining the temporary status of a privileged producer. Of course, there are all the incentive measures and all the conditions including the test work of the future facility, defined and guaranteed projects already before the start of the construction. Such a contract under delayed conditions concerning the exclusive obligation of such investors to make use of the reserved capacity acquired by temporary status of such investors by completing its facility within the deadlines foreseen and, of course, to obtain the status of the privileged producer. One of the issues that we have faced about which there have been a lot of problems with this legal solution I find an answer to these questions, and they are related to the connection to the transmission system by investors in the area of renewable energy sources, we have solved this issue in such a way as to make it possible for investors to carry out their own work on their own costs, of course, in accordance with the technical task that the system operator gives to implement the system connection and thus to influence the costs themselves, but also the dynamics of all these activities. I have to say, without wanting to put anything under the rug here today in front of the MPs, that there was one question about which there was a lot of controversy and about who, I know that there have been various amendments coming to you here and in the MPs' clubs, and I know that there has been a serious controversy on the subject of these amendments that are related to certain issues that overlap in relation to the Energy and Construction Act, and there are a few questions that I have to mention here. One question of the Law on Planning and Construction, in order to speed up the entire process that investors have, predicts that it is the obligation of energy companies to give all technical elements, including the price for joining the distribution system, in the process, to abolish the accession solution as an institute that exists in the current law and in all previous acts under which Serbia is concerned. Indeed, as a ministry, we respect such an attitude and such a need for investors in the creation of this climate to be given all the benefits, but we were unable to accept such an interpretation taking into account that the solution to the accession is an extremely responsible act guaranteed at the moment when we know what kind of facility is built safely, securely, quality power supply and the connection to the system according to this. At the time of the location permit, the ministry, but other energy companies are on the point that we do not have the necessary number of data on the facility to be connected to the power grid. These answers to questions about what the connection is, what strength it is, what technical solutions are necessary for accession. We don't get it until after the building permit's been issued. On the other hand, this mechanism of accession solutions does not apply only to new objects. It also refers to existing facilities that have not previously been connected to the network, as well as to changes in conditions, supply of energy in an object which is already connected to the system, mergers, separate installation, i.e. measuring places, change of authorised power, customer object, as well as reconnection due to exclusion. The Ministry of Mining and Energy is firmly on the point that we cannot institute the accession approval to delete in this law. We, of course, will, in the time before us until the full application of the Law on Planning and Construction, which is provided for in that domain of March 1st 2015, bring this into line at the level of the Government, but is an additional reason why the Institute of Accession must remain in this law. If we were to delete it today from this law by 1 March 2015, no one in Serbia could join in electricity. And finally, we deeply believe that this is a very professional question to which politicians, not even stakeholders, should have been gathered in investment forums or elsewhere, but only those who are responsible for the security and security of the supply of electricity, or waist, and I repeat the profession in a 100% relationship behind this solution. Finally, I want to repeat the general objectives of the bill which the proposal to achieve, under one - it is a full harmonisation of the domestic regulatory framework with the third energy package relating to electricity, natural gas and renewable energy sources, under two - the creation of conditions for ensuring the safe supply of the Republic of Serbia's market with energy and energy, under three - creating conditions for the efficient functioning of the electricity and natural gas markets, under four - creating conditions for the establishment and functioning of the regulated electricity market, under five - creating conditions for the participation of foreign legal persons in the bilateral balance and organised market of electricity, under six – protecting all categories of customers, and especially energy-hazared customers, I have to stress here that the government and the Ministry lead one responsible social policy of this area, that we maintain the institution of the protected buyer, under six – protecting all categories of consumers, and the necessary sources of energy sources of energy in which we have in terms of energy consumption. This law also provides for some formal matters, such as the ban on mutual subsidisation of energy subjects, creating conditions for achieving a binding and national target for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and the consumption of biofuels in transport. I know I already have some intersection and I know what was in the debate and I'm afraid that we'll be able to reach out to those 10% and, of course, we'll talk about it during the debate, but in any case, this law, I repeat, has a strong investment note and a note to protect the rights of potential investors and, above all, those in the area of renewable energy. This law of course strengthens the state's efforts to curb the illegal oil and oil products market and finally what I have said strengthens the independence of the Energy Agency and eliminates the shortcomings in the application of the current Energy Act. I want to thank you at this point, of course, in the first place for these people sitting on the left and right beside me, but also for the whole team sitting in the ministry and preparing to analyse the amendments of the MPs. After 6 of this law is of course a huge energy and more monthly work by this team of people, but of course both the team and the people from the previous energy ministry who I also thank at this time, as well as an extremely large number of subjects who took part in the public debate. I think it would take me a few minutes to read, all the institutions that have contributed that this law is really good and I will now say immodestly maybe that it is really good, and the best testimony that this law is good came from institutions that are very strict on the assessment of legal projects and which are on our European path and are bound and have the right to control our legislative framework and I will read a few segments of the letter that we received from the European Commission is a "supervisory authority" in this domain of fulfilling our obligations that says that the secretariat is directly involved in the process of making laws through delivering several rounds of comments and discussions on the text of the law in Belgrade. The bill's proposals have been significantly improved after each round, and this document has reached a state that we believe adequately transposes the provisions of the third package, and therefore we recommend that it be adopted, as well as a final assessment that Serbia will meet the deadline of 1 January 2015 for the application of the third energy package and not only that, but it could also be the first contracting party to complete the process of updating its legislative framework. I think that these are really good estimates and estimates that Serbia is, of course, on the right track, in every sense, but that in the energy field, the right path has already come to a large extent. I call on MPs to have a quality debate in this legal solution in a decent democratic atmosphere. We are fully prepared to hear all objections, suggestions, suggestions and to respect them, of course, if they represent an improvement in the legal project, whether these proposals come from the ranks of the ruling majority or opposition, and of course, we invite you to support this law because this law is good for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18826	The word is made by MP Katarina Rakic on behalf of the promoter on 2nd and 4th agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18827	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will speak as the authorised legislator of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law and Construction, as well as of the draft law on amendments and addition of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. First of all, I would like to say that the proposed amendments and additions to these laws are not so extensive but that they are of great importance to the citizens of Serbia, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the very economy of Serbia. First, I'm going to talk about amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. There are two amendments, both relating to provisions treated in Article 97 of the proposed Law. Namely, we propose to delete the position of the 4th member, who says that the unit of local self-government can also determine the different coefficients of the zone, i.e. the purpose, which will be applied in areas outside the city centers and unit of local self-government. We believe that this attitude should be deleted because in our legal system these zones are not properly defined, so that abuse can occur, that units of local self-government can define these zones themselves and in such a way can be misused. Thus, some zones can be excluded from payment of contributions, and in such a way it can be brought that the law is not applied at all, which is certainly a major problem for the implementation of this law. As for the second amendment to this law we propose, it refers to attitude 9, and we suggest that the contribution to the construction land is not accounted for in addition to all other objects listed in this attitude, we suggest that the contribution is not calculated for both production and storage facilities, as well as for underground floors of high-building facilities. In fact, there was an error here in accepting amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, which was recently adopted. The proposal proposed by the government prior to the adoption of the amendment has certainly already been treated by these facilities, however, when the amendments were adopted, there was a mistake and these facilities were left out at that time. We certainly believe that excluding these facilities from paying compensation for the contribution to local self-government units will not be a problem, but will certainly attract new investors and that local self-government will certainly attract new investors to have a lot more income from other inflows than from the contribution itself. Also, the data we have is that income from production facilities based on the current fees for the urban construction land for income units of local self-government is still around 0.06% of total income, and as I have already stated, the revenues these production facilities would make to local self-government by paying various contributions and various dues inflows would certainly be higher than this percentage that I said would bear 0.06% of the total stake in local self-government budgets. It is also a proposal to exclude underground floors from paying contributions, certainly aimed at achieving and introducing international good practice to treat certain content in such a way, and above all to preserve the environment and certainly by encouraging energy efficiency. I would also like to point out that what we talked about in the principle debate when we passed the Law on Planning and Construction, the contribution certainly represents one of the greatest parafiscal duties, so I am glad that we can abolish it in this proposal. As for the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on special conditions for the entry of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, here we propose one amendment and one addition. As far as the change itself is concerned, it refers to a deadline prescribed by this law and concluded on December 31st of this year and we believe, given that this deadline is armed, that it needs to be deleted, given that we have a lot of items that are not completed and that by mistake local self-government we do not need to put people in a position not to bring their business to an end. The addition we're proposing is that the objects that are entered the right of property, that they can't be destroyed. Those objects that have received a solution to the collapse will certainly, we propose that these laws be hitched to the rightful adoption of a legalisation solution. I believe that this will certainly mean something to the citizens because this is how something that has so far been interpreted by local self-government and certainly been one of the big problems in this law. On these two proposals, the government has given a positive opinion, so I urge you to support these amendments and amendments of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18828	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Then we move on to the presentation of authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. The first is MP Srdjan Kružević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18829	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Government with Associates, fellow MPs, allow me to say that JS or the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws, but today we will be based on the Energy Act in our presentation. As for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Energy, I would like to congratulate, on behalf of my party and MP groups, on my contribution to this mandate and to conclude once again, although this is more repeated in this House, that the difficulties with the floods that have hit us and this in the previous period that happened in eastern Serbia certainly demonstrates the willingness and determination of this government to deal with and with unplanned things. Perhaps the development strategy would have been a little different if we hadn't been hit by huge floods that most endangered Colubar, but with this program that the government came out with and with things ahead of us I'm sure these problems will overcome. It is an exceptional honor and pleasure to hear from Minister Antić the fact that today's Colubara started exploiting ore. It is indeed a great commendation not only for the ministry, Prime Minister Vukic, but for all the performers who were on the ground and, as far as I heard, did their work day and night. As far as the Energy Act is concerned, I was probably one of the biggest advocates of his change in the past because in practice I faced the anomalies of the 2011 law and certainly was pleased to be able to discuss today this new law in which I recognized the corrections of certain things, and the minister spoke very fully about it in his presentation. When we look through energy at oil and gas, it is clear that Serbia does not have much space for certain activities in the area because, as most of the world's countries, we are dependent on others in this field, so I would focus most on electricity as an energy that can make Serbia an energy independent, or very stable. There is no country in Europe and in the world that does not base its economic development on energy independence. Serbia was very close to the border to become economically dependent, and the fact that no major investment in the energy sector has been made in the past 30 years is in favour of that, but I will return to the power plants later, and that 30 years is a really long period of time that nothing has been invested. Of course, I also welcome the provisions of the laws that encourage our country's commitment to foster the production of electricity from renewable sources, but definitely Serbia needs its energy stability to be based on basic production and that is the determination of all European countries and countries in our environment. I'm going to give a simple example that Germany's electricity production is based on 85% of coal production, although they say it's the dirtiest power model. The Germans built 70,000 megawatt thermal plants over the past 20 years, so they even built individual 800 megawatt plants, and even some of them were on existing power plants and of 1,000. To compare it with Serbia. Serbia has 4,000 megawatts in thermal potential and a total of 7,000 installed capacity. Of course, it is of paramount importance to build a new block in the 350 megawatt Kostolc and that is the thing that will increase the production of electricity in Serbia by 8%. On the other hand, if we look at that investment, it's the largest single investment in the past 30 years and it's $1 billion and it's absurd to even talk about bringing a billion-dollar investment in what's going on in Serbia, so energy and as far as building new capacities is concerned is very closely connected with all sectors of the economy. Of course, Serbia needs more blocks like this and we were close to implementing a project that exists a long time ago, which is TNT3, but due to some mistakes from the past, where there has been insufficient investment in the Kolubar basen, its expansion and exploitation, it is now being questioned because of the insufficient amount of energy in the area what will happen to the project. On the other hand, "Drmno" and "Kostolac" have another 400m tonnes of new coal and it might not be bad to think about building a thermal power plant in the area. As far as renewable electricity sources are concerned, many issues are raised. As Minister Antić himself said, a commitment that Serbia has accepted that 27% of its electricity consumption, i.e. gross consumption, from renewable sources, I would like to stress that with the 2009 plan, when we had a base position of 21.2%, all the analyses have shown that we have not gone exactly planned until now and that we were not close to achieving those 27%, which is what our membership in the energy community has ultimately committed us to. However, what provides for a new law and a solution to the problems that have been a hindrance for investors to opt for renewable sources, especially from the sun and the wind, I see that this law has changed a lot and that Serbia is drawn to the market for such a type of investment, which I welcome, so I would just focus on for a few seconds on it. So, each of these investments provides for an increase in banking, a guarantee of quality, a reduction in the administration you've been talking about. What is interesting is that the construction of a hydropower plant of up to 100 kilowatts has no obligation to establish no bank guarantee in the status or temporary status of the manufacturer. What's interesting to me and what I've been talking about and in the earlier period not from this place is that every producer of electricity from a renewable source has the opportunity to build a connection itself, or build a trafo station itself, and only by the methodology that comes after that the distribution system operator will calculate that trafo station, or its disposal through the connection, and will pay less for that connection, so that we speed up this process and it's very good. However, in the past 14 years, the Republic of Serbia has issued licenses for 1500 megawatts through renewable sources of electricity, and there is one question being raised not to this government but to the previous ones – how is it possible that only during this government the first solar park was opened, it was opened by Minister Antic, and what happens to other things? However, not to be pathetic and not to return to the past, because the words spoken by the minister give great encouragement to the future, but this type of production from renewable electricity sources requires huge subsidies from the state. What's interesting is the statistical statement that this type of production in the world takes up only 0.5% of total electricity production. Again, I would take an example of Germany, which, with its 85% coal production only over 14 years, plans to lower that production to 78%, so even though we're having a little bit of a cascade, because there's a great deal of these things going on in Germany that are strategically envisaged, but while I'm at the strategy, I want to point out that the strategic development of renewable energy sources and production in this way, and that as many megawatts in renewable sources, we have to have the same amount of reserves in thermoenergy to make one balance between renewable sources that can disappear at a given moment, and we have to have an adequate reserve. One of the options is, if not the best, the construction of a reviable hydropower plant on Bistrica. There is a potential of approximately 600 megawatts and if we add that reversible hydropower plant to what we do in Kostolc to 350 megawatts and in the perspective of another 350 one, which you were also talking about, Minister, I think Serbia is gaining one long-term independence in electricity and a really good position. Of course, I recognized that this law encourages and builds mini power plants that are welcome anyway. I would go back to that if Serbia hadn't had investments in the electricity system for 30 years. I want to commend this government and I want to say that it's very good that this government took the first step and after 30 years brought one huge million dollar investment to Kostolac. I'm sure we'll take a second and a third step together, and that way, of course, we'll ensure a safe future. When I talk about these investments, it certainly says that the value and importance of electricity investments is proof that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is the most significant system the Republic of Serbia has, and its property is certainly the most valuable asset the Republic of Serbia has. This system needs to be handled and managed very carefully and all the changes that are planned in this system need to be implemented carefully. The second part of my exposure would be based on liberalization, i.e. the opening of the electricity market. We know that in 2013, the market is open to large customers, in 2014 for medium, and what is most important is 1 January 2015, when the market for households is opened. There are a number of examples from our environment, which in this case can represent happiness for our society, that some part of our environment went a few steps ahead of us, so we can learn from their mistakes. In Serbia, 80 licensed suppliers are registered. We had examples in Europe, Italy, Germany, where certain private houses offered to sell electricity appeared, for example. In Germany, a private house that had two employees, along with an electricity sales service, also offered free internet access. In this way, the private company, the company, earned two billion euros, two billion euros in foreign electricity sold, not Germany, in this case I am talking about Serbian electricity and money in the perspective, which was earned by another company rather than by a state company. The Germans changed their laws not long after that. What do I mean? I would like to say that it is necessary to insist on as much marketing as possible, on the increasing knowledge of the population and consumers of the household category, on identifying EPS supply as a reliable supplier, on identifying EPS supply as a supplier selling electricity produced in Serbia and on identifying the EPS supply as, conditionally speaking, a flow water heater through which money will go to EPS employees' salaries, in production, in kopete, in distributions, etc. I'm going to give another example that happened in Italy. A foreign company showed up again, I'm not going to name it, I know which is, which has offered 70% cheaper electricity compared to what they could buy with their regional producer. It happened that the company held a price that was 70% lower for a year, a regional electricity producer closed its plants, and then the supplier increased its service by 300%. I note again, all the things that happen in our environment we have to look at as one good lesson, not to say school, and learn from there so we don't get into that kind of trouble. Of course we need to step up with Europe, of course these are all the things Europe expects us to do, and of course these are things that will improve the work and functioning system of the EPS, but I am stressing again, we need to be careful and be careful. What a public supplier, which is a dependent company of EPS, offers is identical to what others will offer, but here, for example, It happened that, in particular, a pharmacy in Novi Sad gets 100,000 dinars of higher electricity bills because in public procurement, that is, a private supplier who had the opportunity to hide certain contract provisions in the tender went through, even though a typical tender was called and now charges some of his services for 100,000 dinars more. Of course, there is now a model to break off such a contract and to approach the supplier who is at the EPS. So there are certain problems, but certainly, this law represents a huge step forward in the field of energy. As Minister Antic said, he received the highest grade of professional bodies that I also know are very rigorous and that is what must encourage everyone who deals with energy, and at the very end of the line and consumers of electricity. Once again, I would like to say that JS will support this set of laws, to express once again the great satisfaction that Minister Antic represents the area of energy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think you're doing very well, Minister, and I think you should just keep going this way. Of course, the team you belong to is very energetic, very capable and I believe you will continue to work like that. Once again, JS will vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18830	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18831	The Honorable Chairman, respected Ministers, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, I would begin my discussion for reasons for passing this law by emergency procedure. It is explained on page 206 that the Republic of Serbia is in line with the Law on the ratification of the Energy Community Treaty between the European Community and the countries of the region, including Serbia, not to list all other countries, and on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 5 October 2011, which is mentioned today by the minister, to assume the obligation to install the directives from the third energy package in its legislative system by 1 January 2015, and to fully open the electricity and natural gas market, etc., not to read the whole of this argument. Today is December 26, 2014 and I wonder what has been waiting until now and why the law has not entered into the assembly procedure before, but we are now literally bringing it into force since 1 January 2015. I will remind the members of the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Members of Parliament here, that the report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 was discussed at the session held on 18 June 2014, at which the Committee set out a proposal for a conclusion on the examination and directed to the National Assembly with a proposal for the National Assembly to consider it and to reach its conclusion on an urgent procedure in accordance with Articles 167 and 193. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. So, then, at the meeting of this Committee, we decided to discuss the report on the work of the Energy Agency and, in general, on the state of energy in Serbia, then in June, and addressed the Assembly for adoption. This report has not been put on the agenda of the National Assembly to this day, and if it were discussed, MPs and citizens would have a much clearer picture of what must be agreed, what are the deadlines, which are our obligations, how this will affect the daily lives of citizens and it would be much easier for us to consider in a two-day period we as lawmakers of this law of a total of 434 members. The third package of directives mentioned here as a reason, above all a condition for the adoption of amendments, i.e. this law, provides for new responsibilities for members, i.e. us as someone who wants to enter the EU, as regards carbon dioxide emissions, in terms of renewable energy and energy efficiency, and this will reflect on the obligations we have and what we need to do. The law will be passed, but there we are, as we would say, all agreed, is the question of how it will be implemented after practice. I would like to list just a few of the facts presented at that meeting, or the Committee, when the Agency's report was presented, and then it was said that the government would deliver a strategy for the development of energy that envisions the growth of energy consumption, and growth would be covered by the construction of new power plants, mainly new energy sources, but in the long run, electricity capacities are quite old and should be renewed. That's what my predecessor mentioned. It says – The Council of Ministers of the Energy Community has postponed the application of the European directive on large logs, which was due to enter into force in 2018, has been moved to 2023, allowing us to adapt the electricity system to the requirements of the directive. But if we do as we do at the last minute, I'm afraid that about 2022, before the New Year's Eve, we say -- you see, we haven't been able to meet even a small percentage of the conditions of the directive. Here in the report is mentioned, for long-term gas supply, the South Stream, but then they were not yet known new moments regarding the South Stream. Also, the report mentions that only 10% of households are connected to gas in Serbia. Serbia, per capita, spends a third of the gas compared to the EU population average. It is claimed to be a sector where greater development could be made. Given that the poverty rate has increased in this country, especially given that the reduced wages and pensions are large numbers of citizens, I'm afraid that this small gas consumption... Although I know what the situation is, there are a lot of gas consumers in Vojvodina, or users who are connected to the gas network, and they are not using it because they are unable to pay. The report mentions that there are about 70,000 energy-protected customers, who have obtained the right to cut monthly bills, but given the level of poverty in Serbia, the number of energy-protected consumers must be higher. That's what the report was told at this meeting. Finally, as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, the Ministry of Mining and Energy is responsible, as I then asked questions, and only agencies were discussed. When it comes to time to prepare the documentation, since it mentions the use of hydroelectrics, i.e. hydroelectrics and solar energy, where hydrosystems are just given priority, one fact that we forget, or we don't account enough. It has been said, when hydropower plants are involved, that it is necessary to prepare documentation for the construction of hydropower plants, the process is, according to the European Commission, about three years in some countries, and in some EU members up to six years, when it comes to larger hydropower plants, because regulations are stricter than in Serbia, above all, environmental protection regulations. The construction of a reversible hydropower plant is mentioned here. I'd like to hear what the environmentalists think about it, where we'd benefit, and where we'd have any damage, to make a balance there. If something is not done, the deadline for the implementation of the Large Census Directive by 2023 will be a major problem for Serbia. It is particularly stressed that the opening of every new plant, and here we have heard a lot of stories about new investors, will require a certain consumption of electricity, that is to say, a new installed power. At that meeting I asked the question – what about energy passports, that is, in construction, where there are spaces to save energy, not to mention only large systems, large consumption, etc., where can be saved, or any consumer is interested in paying as little bills as possible? That's when I mentioned, you can all see, we're witnessing that at every step we have buildings that aren't finished, houses that aren't finished, and they're all connected to the energy system. How does it help these people to create thermal insulation, reduce energy consumption and look to the practice that exists in EU countries? We have an opportunity to see that in neighbouring countries where European funds have been used, and the funds of these countries have been used to, say, replace the carpentry, not to lose energy because it simply doesn't breathe, so a lot of energy has been lost, to isolate old buildings, and rules respect new buildings, and all of this with the help of state funds, dedicated funds for these needs and EU funds. I'm glad Mrs Joksimovic is here. Maybe he can answer us, when it comes to IPA funds, is there going to be room for subsidizing these projects that will allow energy consumption, especially household energy consumption, to be reduced as much as possible because it will be a relief for citizens? The possibility of using alternative energy sources, i.e. agricultural waste. I've been listening for years, because I've been in this business for a long time, so you can use agricultural waste, so you can use a barn to get energy. We had one project from the World Bank for the use of barns on large farms. Unfortunately, when the project was completed, he gave excellent results, the state did not continue it, or there were no funds to do such a thing. Unfortunately, the Environmental Fund was also abolished in 2012, so no funds could be used to build such biogas plants. Also, the use of waste, we see here that in the law it is formally envisaged, but it is clear that such activities must be stimulated by means, must be supported by subsidies or by some other incentive measures, because green kilowatts, or energy saving, are everywhere expensive, or it must be stimulated. The example works in Bursa, Turkey, 30% of the waste is used to gain energy. They solved the waste issue, secured a certain amount of energy and created green jobs. Unfortunately, that's not what we're talking about. It's an area where we can hire an army of people, but at this point it's not being seen. We don't use the knowledge of our people we teach or use our experiences from other countries. I think that the experience of EU countries and other countries that have managed this area should be used, i.e. with one blow, to address the issue of waste, i.e. waste in the environment, to protect the environment and to preserve energy. In fact, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to implement the Directives on the promotion and use of energy from renewable sources and on the promotion and use of biofuels or other fuels produced from renewable energy sources. That's what we've accepted and what's in the directives. I didn't purposely specify the number of the directive, because I don't think that's what the MPs are interested in, or the citizens. The Renewable Energy Directive sets out binding, I stress, national targets to be achieved through the promotion of renewable energy sources in the electricity, heating, cooling and transport sectors, in order to ensure that by 2020, the share of renewable energy sources, we have heard, is 27% in total energy consumption. I ask the question – where are we today in this regard and what percentage has been reached so far? I think 2020 will come very soon. Here in the law, Chapter 5 mentions renewable sources, in Articles 65 to 87, and talks about incentive measures for privileged electricity producers, which are producers using alternative, or renewable energy sources. I shall mention only Article 79, where all final customers of electricity are said to be obliged to pay a fee to encourage privileged electricity producers, except in cases defined by law, not to read further this member of the law. It's just these funds that need to be stimulating, I think they should be standing in a single fund. I would call that money "green money", because it is the ultimate goal of protecting the environment, directly or indirectly, and that these funds are, in this way, being directed. Article 341. The law refers to biofuels used on the market, i.e. they should be used and spoken about the means used to encourage the placing on the market of biofuels. It says – these funds are collected as charges for biofuels, and bonds for paying this fee are energy operators that carry out energy operations, production of oil products, oil trade, etc. So, some sources that are being collected, but these are funds within the budget. I again cite the possibility of eventually forming a special fund, if it does not exist or is not active by now, and that these funds are, in this way, being directed. Finally, from Minister Antić's discussion, I see that the possibility of building a thermal power plant at Kovin is mentioned. I'm a little familiar with the subject. In fact, it's about underwater exploitation of lignite that exists for a number of years. The problem is in this area is that it is an explored area as a potential source of groundwater for the territory of all Banat. The fact may also be known from the media that Banat, particularly threatened by the poor quality of groundwater, is used for drinking. This is exactly the area of Kovin – Dubovac, Dubovac – Banatska Palanka, explored as a potential source. Now there's a possibility of building a new thermal power plant, and if we consider that there's a Deliblat pedestrian nearby, which is protected naturally well, then it's a double damage. I think that the idea of such a thermal power plant being built in this area should be very, very well thought out and respected by those who are engaged, i.e. those who represent the interests of environmental protection and the normal opinion of the citizens themselves, who live in the area. I know there's been a debate on the subject before. Unfortunately, the people in the energy sector are stronger, I know it from experience, through the work I've been doing, so I'm afraid it doesn't overpower this whole other sustainable story when it comes to the environment, and yet it doesn't build such a thermal power plant that's going to do huge damage to the environment and we're witnessing elsewhere that something like that exists. The LSDV Parliament Club has given a number of amendments. Many of these amendments are editorialal nature, which only speaks of how quickly the law is prepared, so both grammatical and literal errors occur. And as for some other amendments, we have proposed them, especially when it comes to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, depending on whether or not our amendments will be adopted, we will vote in the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18832	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18833	First of all, I really have no intention of reacting after every discussion of the MP, just like this sometimes I'll call to comment on what I think is important and it's important. Of course, I would like to thank Mr Krusovic for supporting and understanding the law's solution, as well as the need to go to the liberalisation of a market that is not only part of our international obligations, but simply part of a normal business environment that Serbia must have in each segment, which is also the case with electricity and gas. What people need to know in Serbia that liberalising the market since the first 2015 does not mean by the definition that now they will "supply" suppliers of electricity to households. Not for one simple reason. The electricity prices we're going to the households with right now are the lowest in Europe and therefore these foreign companies have no motive for still entering our market. As I recall, don't take my word for it, in every dinar, but about the production price of electricity that EPS supply goes with, let me say, into the system, everything else is network and distribution segment and about 29 euro cents per kilowatt, or 29 euros per megawatt hour, to stick to megawatts. If we take the price of electricity on the market now over 40 euros, it is quite clear that someone who trades with that electricity on the market and has 40 euros, will now come to us in a distribution system of 29 euros, so that our electricity producers, without any dilemma, remain dominant on our market, which is important to us. What's the plan of the Serbian government is to build more electricity facilities in the next few years, we have excess electricity to show up as serious players to export electricity, so there's not much to worry about. I would, of course, like to take note of all these words and sentences that we have heard from our esteemed colleague, to say that, as we have just received this today, we will carefully consider the amendments to LDSV, first of all, in the segment that entangles the powers of the AP Vojvodina and we will do so very responsibly. In the course of the day, we will deal with these amendments, but I want to comment on two things. One thing is about the fact that this law today lies before the MPs and I don't want to justify myself, but I want to explain, first of all, this government was elected in late April, and I came as Minister of Mining and Energy, it seems to me on April 27th. In May we entered the floods and believe me, the whole May unfortunately remained recorded and dedicated exclusively to fighting the floods. I formed a working group for the finalisation of this draft in June and since June, we have been working together and agreeing with the European Commission and the Energy Community. We referred him to the government of the Republic of Serbia on 5 November to the other ministries for an opinion. On November 6th, we received definitive paper from the Energy Community that all those obligations that we had as a state were transposed into that law from November 6th, or from November 5th to December 19th, were carried out by a serious process of harmonising this law in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We were obliged to obtain 13 opinions from different ministries or from the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and, finally, on December 19th, the law was passed and here on December 19th, it was very quick in the assembly procedure. I'm just saying, I know you don't have to respect my explanation, but there's one serious explanation. It's about a serious job, a legal project that has over 400 members. I repeat, it is an obligation to agree in the country and abroad. Finally, you asked the question of the current percentage of renewable electricity consumption, all our international obligations and agreements were made on the basis of the 2009 balance sheet and on this 2009 balance sheet, the share of renewable electricity consumption was 21%. What you need to know, unfortunately it's not fixed data, electricity consumption is changing, it has its own amblude. There are years where she's older, there are years where she's smaller. That year in 2009 was the year in which Jelizara Smederevo was not working. When it works at full capacity, our energy balance increases in a way that rises by 5-6%. So the work of the Ironworks affects 5-6% of our energy balance. That year it didn't work. We, meanwhile, have put into operation 50 megawatts of renewable sources and for 100 megawatts has been revitalized in the context of hydro potential. So we have some new 150 megawatts. The year 2015 is the year in which I expect Jelizara to work at full capacity. That's good for the whole country. We all live with the hope that this job will finally be built, so consumption is growing. We have slightly raised the number of objects from renewables, but apparently when these two elements are considered it will still be on about 20-21%. That is why this law puts us first on the creation of an investment climate to build new objects from renewable sources, and I am therefore fully convinced that we will succeed. At this point, we have several really serious projects that are in different stages. First of all, I'm thinking about wind energy projects. Several projects have already come to the level to have a building permit. Now during the summit of China – Serbia, one of these projects signed a contract with China's Exi Bank and, it seems to me, the Goldwind company that will deliver, I must say, windmills, under the quote, essentially wind generators, so that the project begins very quickly. When other projects are at stake, after the adoption of this law, we are beginning to run a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts. One of these sublegislative acts is exactly the one I was talking about, and as soon as we reach an agreement on the "PPJ", it is, the condition for the insolvency of their products and their already ready contracts, "Continenta Wind", which would finance the project, along with the company "Mazdor" from the United Arab Emirates. It's about "Continental Wind", so American investment. The other two major projects are the same, I think, in the phase of very fast financial security. I think the MK's already started working a smaller wind farm. It's all going to some good time. We are left with one serious part of the job to define the model of this "PPJ" contract, and there are a lot of challenges ahead of us. Unfortunately, we have now come to this energy from renewable sources, primarily wind energy, as a country, under the allegations, on the agenda, after Romania and Bulgaria. Romania and Bulgaria have had a serious run-in of investors who have been doing these wind parks in recent years, however, the Romanian state and their energy companies have proven quite unstable in the project, so that financial institutions are now trying to correct all of the problems that were in Romania and Bulgaria and to minimise any risk to any investment and to transfer that overall risk to us as a state. What you need to know here as MPs and, of course, the general public is that we as Government are going to try and fight to protect both our country's interests and our country's dignity. First of all, starting from the premise that every investor who comes to Serbia to invest cannot ask our country to have more protection and favourable conditions than it has in its country. We have not entered the EU yet, but we are a serious country with serious legislation, which has a serious relationship to investment and where the contract represents a sacred one. So I don't think we can, even with everything we're giving as a framework, give for every investment, no matter what it's from private sources, that we're giving some other state guarantees that we're going to make a buyout. But I repeat, it's something that's ahead of us. Believe me, my ministry, this team of people I work with has a lot of experience and a lot of knowledge that we're going to know that we're negotiating maximum well, in the interest of the state. Of course, this is a question that is of broader importance, so the Government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, will give the final court and the general public will, above all, be informed and, of course, the MPs will, with always the option of coming to the board and that every passing time that is important we negotiate and define with the Assembly and that we go through it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18834	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18835	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, your question is really useful to me, and I am very pleased that you asked the question and gave me the opportunity to further clarify some IPA II elements for the period 2014 to 2020, but at the same time you have made a good proposal that can be a priority for future infrastructure facilities in the field of energy in this case. The first thing I want to point out is that this IPA II programme implies a period, as I said, from 2014 to 2020, and there is about a billion and a half euros of grants available to Serbia. So, in seven years, there's no confusion that often occurs in public, which means that we have about 200 million a year, a little more euros in grants. Of that, I must tell you that for the next seven years, for the energy area, 125m euros will be allocated in those seven years. In just 2014 of 115 million for this type of sectoral support, we will have 12.6 million for the energy sector. Among other things, I have to mention that out of 12.6 million is meant to reduce the emission of harmful gases to Tenta A4 blocks, which is also very important. Your particular question concerned the possibility of potentially subsidising the reduction of energy consumption through IPA II through the possibility of isolation, construction, not only of new construction, but of existing housing infrastructures and business. Only subsidisation is quite problematic. It's hard to go through IPA II mechanisms. However, what exists as a new option in this IPA II programme is the introduction of sectoral budget support as some mode of providing assistance. Sector budget support could be used since 2016 for part of infrastructure projects, including energy infrastructure. Of course, this budget support and approval of this budget support is somewhat more demanding. It requires regulation in the domain of public finances, budgetary transparency and the existence of a credible sectoral strategy. That is why it was important for this budget that we adopted the other day that introduces part of the order into public finances and I think that this way of formulating the budget and in the coming years will make it easier for us to be users and recipients of budget support as a model. Your question is also important to show people, and I would like the citizens to understand it, that IPA funds really have a concrete effect because we can really, if we plan well, well program to be really visible and tangible in order to improve the lives of our citizens, and raise energy efficiency. What can be a problem is that for these 125m euros over the next seven years, we have to meet several important things, priorities in regulating energy infrastructure, and there is also a gas interconnection and market liberalisation, and you yourself mentioned the obligation to reserve oil and oil products, these warehouses, as well as raising the level of participation of renewable energy sources. By 2020, 27% should be participating. Therefore, we must make a good priority, and because of the kind of demanding things that await us in the field of energy. I say again, I'm not sure how much resources we can allocate, but because it's important that this government has really formed the national investment committee in the area of infrastructure and as the chairman of finance and, of course, I as a national IPA coordinator, and here we can actually see what all of the funds are available to us, to combine what grants from some development loans, which IPA. It is very useful for your question, and we will certainly bear in mind that this can also be one of the elements in the priority of project infrastructure. I think it is very important to note that in the reconstruction of the houses that we worked for after the flood and for which we used EU funds, exactly one of the requirements and opportunities used was the use of these materials, which in itself already mean better isolation and reduction of consumption. So anyway, that's the possibility that we have at our disposal, and I believe that in 2016 we're going to put it into projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18836	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18837	Dear Chairman, can I just ask you, is there a possibility, I see that the Minister of Energy is here, but it seems to me that he has just come out right now just to make a phone call, is there any possibility that I can speak when he returns to the O.R. because I would very much like to address him? I wouldn't want his associates to be burdened by the explicitity of their exposure and have to tell him everything I want to tell him, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18838	The only thing I can do is ask someone else if he wants to... Otherwise, formally-legal...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18839	All right. We respect formal law, which is why we are the Assembly to respect formal law. At the beginning, I would really, Your Honor, like to welcome you, to my colleagues from the ministry, and only if it's no problem, that you take this deal down from the time of my address. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18840	Just sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18841	All right, I'll sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18843	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministry guests, I would like to say a few things about the Energy Act today, also a little bit about the laws in the field of planning and architecture, given that I am an architect and that I have been in architecture for over 30 years and over 15 years of energy in construction and architecture. I want, of course, to focus my exposure on the Energy Act because of the importance of these laws, and in that sense I would like to say that in the context of the SDPS, my address will be the desire to contribute to the application of this extremely good law. Construction is, unfortunately, the biggest polluter of this planet and, I don't know how much you might not have expected it, each of you thought that industry was a larger polluter or, however, possibly, traffic, energy consumption and energy consumption were the first to exploit and build the largest polluter of the planet. I think so much, Minister, that possibly this architectural exposure of mine could be some contribution to your area. We are currently in the era of the third world energy crisis and, unfortunately, as an importer of energy, oil and gas, we are making our economy quite addictive and, unfortunately, very uncompetitive. In this regard, in order to ensure energy security, I think it is very important that a strategy of law enforcement and energy development strategies is established after this law, so that this excellent law is actually implemented. What does that mean? I think that we should have a clear energy strategy to apply a variety of energy sources, then, this involves modernising energy facilities, rational use of quality energy, using renewable energy sources, of course, all of the law foresees, but we need, very important, strategy and law enforcement, investing in new energy sources and strictly respecting one strategy. What are Serbia's problems? Serbia is the most non-national energy user in Europe. We spend more than 10 times as much energy per unit of social product from EU countries, and unfortunately, we are having a bad relationship and we are also having a bad comparison with countries in the environment. We spend five times as much energy per unit of social product as the surrounding countries. We import special energies and it makes us energy-dependent, we have low-calorie lignite, unfortunately low-calorie, and, of course, "Colabara" and "Kostolac" and are not inexhaustible sources. Of course, smoke damage as a result of the use of these energys is best known to the Obrenovci. What are the solutions? By 2020, Serbia is due to reach the 27% share of renewable energy sources in the total energy balance. We have absolutely all the sources of alternative energies, except for the energy of the sea and the ocean, we have everything else. What do we got? We have the energy of rivers, the potential of hydropower plants, the energy of the wind for some wind generators, the energy of the sun to build solar complexes, the energy of biomass, and what I especially want to talk about today, we have geothermal energy sources. As someone who has been doing this for more than 15 years, I'd like to talk about the data available to me and some promotional projects I've been involved in. What's geothermal energy anyway? It's the energy of underground waters and warm rocks, which are located underground, of course. Fortunately, Serbia on almost all its territory is extremely rich in geothermal energy. This specifically applies to large cities, Belgrade lies on geothermal sources almost across its territory. As an initial initiative, what I especially want to ask you, what you need to think about, for Belgrade it is necessary to create a geothermal atlas that would give, with its pre-examinations, the exact data in which zones are rational for using the sources of that energy. We know there's one under Belgrade, but not every zone is equally rational. This applies to both Nis and Novi Sad, and I am particularly focusing on Belgrade, given that I have done this in particular. For example, it is known that in Belgrade's heat zone, at some depth of 2,000 meters, there are warm sources of water temperature of about 50, 60, and perhaps even 70 degrees and using that energy as a supplement, as a substitute, as the economic replacement of oil used for water heating would result in a much lower price of energy that we give to citizens and, of course, much more rational use and cheaper use for citizens. The great war island is marked as a zone that could give geothermal energy sources quite enough energy for the entire Earth. Ada gypsies are thought to lie on sources of geothermal energy that could give energy to the entire Chukarica. It is known that in the Aerodrom zone, research and research were done and examined, there is enough energy that could absolutely replace the total energy consumed by the Aerodome facility. This also applies to the Arena facility. When we say that it's energy at 2,000, 3,000 meters deep, it seems to be some sort of important depth. The rationality of using that energy is considered medium and even shallow depths. What else could those wells bring? They're usually multi-purpose drills. By examining the result, they also have complete seismic data that speak of some earthquake risks. Unfortunately, I think Belgrade may be the only one, and perhaps there is another capital in Europe, which has no record of seismic risks. I would especially like to ask you to contribute to an affirmation of design called "Projecting Green Architecture", a concept that is itself understood. It means designing, but also building with full awareness of ecology, energy and economics. What does all green architecture mean? This is the architecture that makes maximum use of renewable energy sources, i.e. architecture that involves the conservation and recycling of water, i.e. the collection of atmospheric water and waste water that is recycled, which makes maximum use of recirculating materials, or uses materials that are recycled after the destruction of an object, means that these are materials that refer to some of the dumps that are relatively close, which are not harmful to cities. Green architecture is still the integration of different energy sources and it is a model of building a smart house. A smart house means a house that saves energy, and the ultimate outcome is, of course, economics. In order to explain what green architecture means, I want to give some good examples from the world. This green design, of course, was started by the greats of Wright, Malta, Korbiseu, but nowadays modern architects are designing awareness of planet pollution. Now it's actually the crown of my address to the Minister and if you don't mind, Minister, I just want to tell you that many of the world's energy ministries, especially the EU, are encouraging the design of green architecture by rewarding the greenest projects in a certain year. UNESCO's decisions, then the architects' associations, and again I tell the energy ministries the annual awards for the most economical, energy-independent and architecturally defined as green objects are rewarded by architects, builders, investors who build on the principle of green architecture. I'd like to ask you to think about it in particular. To illustrate what it means, here's one of the most famous green projects, green objects, and that's the world trade center in Bahrain. It is an object consisting of two towers and these two towers are connected with pasarellas. It's an object that's completely energy-sustaining, using wind generator energy. So there are retrogenerators on the pasarellas between these towers. The facility uses geothermal energy and most of these two objects have a facade that actually consists of solars, i.e. facades are glass solars. It is so adapted with its form and design that air currents save energy for heating and cooling. Surely the world's largest living architect, not only on the principle of designing green architecture, but generally the world's largest living is probably Norman Foster, but he is also the greatest promoter and advocate of green design. As the best example, I'm sure it's a business-house complex in Singapore. It's an object that uses geothermal energy in Singapore for heat pumps as a source of energy, then with two double facades and a green belt between it creates energy-controlled architecture. Also, the wavy form of the roof enables the collection of atmospheric water, the use of that water, and even the recycling of waste water. So that I don't talk too much about it right now, I just want to make you think that way. Of course, it's not just your area, the area of another ministry regulates design in architecture, but I ask you to think about green architecture in the context of energy savings. At the end of my presentation, on behalf of the SDPS, I want to tell you, as one good Italian proverb says – not the rich one who makes a lot of money is the rich one who saves a lot. In that sense, my contribution to this exhibition is also. I also want to say that the SDPS will support both this law and all the other laws in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18844	Thank you. The word has an energy minister, Mr. Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18845	I want to thank Mrs. Bosniak for this truly inspiring discussion. When I say inspiring, I mean first of all because it's full of topics that the Ministry of Mining and Energy is thinking or should think far more intensely, far more seriously, and trust me that this is really in our thoughts and our plans. First of all, I have to agree with your last assessment and that Italian proverb, which when it passes into the energy sector can definitely be calculated economically in a way that every dinar we invest in savings brings more energy than building new energy facilities. So, for us at this point, maybe even the biggest investment should go towards savings. On the other hand, we must build new energy facilities because of the future of our country and because of the fact that electricity consumption, especially after 2020, will grow according to all strategies. The geothermal potential of our country is undoubtedly great. Unfortunately, matter is completely unexplored. We will try through our secretariat, or our renewable sector, to promote it to the extent that it becomes particularly interesting to private investors. I appeal to all of us, I know that Mrs. Bosniak is not part of this problem, but that we have to get out of this problem that she sees in energy exclusively as the country's biggest investor. No, we're just entering a time when private investment, private-public partnerships, these concepts are becoming dominant. The state will invest less and less objectively in some years ahead of us and there will be no business of the state. We know that the issue of architecture and the question of all these elements, and even the energy passport, is not exactly in the power of the Ministry of Energy, but I also agree that we should be part of promoting these ideas and part of a wider project that should support green design, or green architecture. Finally, I have to refer to the energy development strategy, or energy for some future period, and say that we as the Ministry have made one strategy that I personally thought was very good. We put her in the process before the Serbian government for adoption, but unfortunately then this set of things happened about the decision of the Russian partners to continue the implementation of the South Stream project and I was forced to withdraw this strategy and just now to try to give some answers to this emerging situation, first of all taking into account the obligation to approach it responsibly. We couldn't pretend that South was okay and that we were going to adopt such a strategy. We need to re-evaluate that strategy and re-adopt it after we've done it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18846	I thank you, Minister Antic. The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18847	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, at the beginning of my presentation on these laws, I would like to say that the very important information that Minister Antic told us at the beginning of today's session was that all EPS capacities were restored to function and that after the basic disasters and floods that we had produced electricity and coal in that volume that we had before. It is very important information for all Serbian citizens and certainly good news for the end of the year. As regards the proposed laws that we have today in this united debate, I think the reasons for the adoption of the new Energy Act are more than clear, that they are well reflected above all in the fact that in the period from 2011, when the current law was passed, so far the relevant ministry has seen more problems in practice during the application of this applicable law, that there is a great dynamicity of change in the area of energy and that this is also one of the reasons why we are passing the new law, as well as, of course, harmonisation with EU laws. I expect from this new law, as you said to Minister Antic in your principled address that he will provide an institutional environment, that it will shorten the procedure and define the conditions in the field of energy. The forecasts are that the new law enables safe and reliable supply of electricity and natural gas, that it will enable the balanced development of the entire energy sector, to promote competitiveness in the market, effective market surveillance, the development of energy infrastructure and the introduction of modern technologies and the protection of consumers and the use of renewable energy sources. However, I must stress that it is not a small step that, in the current application of this law, an accounting and legal separation of electricity transmissions from production and distribution and electricity trade has been carried out. In line with the debate on the new Energy Act, we received one good news from the director, the acting director, the EPS director, Mr. Aleksandr Obradovic, who said that more serious activities will start from the new year to corporateise the EPS. We have recently moved the deadline in this high home to finish this big deal again, and I sincerely hope that the EPS corporateisation will be completed before it expires and that we will finally have all the information on the assets, the capital of the EPS, the employees, the transformation of EPS into a stock society and which will come out in a very clear way on the market and in which the real value will be determined, I would say this Serbian jewel and the most important resource in Serbia. In addition to the change in the organisation of the EPS, I cannot not mention the Energy Agency as an independent regulatory body dealing with improving the development of the energy market on the principles of non-discrimination and effective competition. My colleagues mentioned, and I also welcome the fact and a long-term plan by the ministry that by 2020 the share of renewable energy is at least 27% in total energy consumption. When it comes to the supply of electricity, a positive effect of new legal solutions should be felt by all of us as individual customers, because opening and liberalising the market will give us the opportunity to choose our own supplier by electricity, but relatively simply and at no extra cost. The new Energy Act also provides for a higher level of legal protection for end-users in this way changes the traditional subordinated position of consumers compared to the supplier who still manifests itself daily on the counters for the advertising of our electricity distributions, where citizens lose both time and nerve, and most often go home unhappy with the explained. When I mention the consumer, i.e. the final buyer of electricity, it is particularly important that the social component in the law recognises the category of energy-hazarded electricity buyer, i.e. natural gas and law precisely specify the criteria, as well as the procedure for obtaining this status, which protects the economic interests of the poorest and most deprived citizens to a good extent. I think it is very important that the new law introduces a public service obligation and thus clearly defines that the public service obligation must be clearly defined, transparent, non-discriminatory, time-limited, and must guarantee the equality of energy operators in providing public services. From the point of view of security and continuity of supply, it is much more important that natural gas reserves, which are at least equal to the thirty-day average needs of their customers in the current year, are provided by law enforcement authorities. As part of the general budgetary consolidation, there is little negligible and the effect the law should have on the continuation of the illegal oil market. The existing law did not prescribe adequate monitoring of oil derivative flows, so neither was it possible to fully curb the black market for oil derivatives. This law requires the obligation to obtain consent for the storage of oil and its derivatives, as well as biofuels for its own needs and the supply of co-distributed vehicles at its own cells. I see the minister has come out, but there are his associates, so at the end of my energy presentation, I wanted to ask him one more question. I believe that you will tell him, and that in the course of today's debate, he will answer this question to me, and this refers to the data – how much isolation is installed in the existing facilities in Serbia and does the Ministry own exactly how many other objects should be done in this direction, given that we are one of the biggest consumers of electricity and that isolation by new technologies would significantly reduce electricity consumption? I would also like to inform both the resolution minister and the citizens that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the Energy Act in the voting day. As regards the proposal for a law confirming a framework agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for implementing EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, i.e. IPA II, it is certainly important that Minister Joksimovic is in the absolute interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this law and to use the IPA Funds for the period from 2014 to 2020. Certainly such a well-conceived agreement is a necessary legal instrument based on which EU funds grant should be co-excessively implemented in the Republic of Serbia over the long term. In particular, it should be stressed that the adoption of this law creates conditions for the implementation of grants for recovery and recovery after the floods in 2014 amounting to 62m euros, which has already been approved by the European Commission a week ago, so it is quite understandable that this agreement is in the assembly procedure. It encourages the fact that the National Investment Committee has just been established in Serbia. What makes me particularly happy and what I see changes in a positive sense is the fact that European integration is slowly but certainly descending to a local level and that a growing number of local self-government is fully aware that it must start making projects in time in terms of the realisation of these IPA funds. What I would like to ask is – how many of these millions and a half are allocated to protect the environment and to agriculture? Also, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18848	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18849	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, first a few comments on this session today and the agenda which is proposed and the fact that we are discussing five laws which, as I said this morning, have nothing to do with each other in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think that this agenda is in a certain way the right to paint the work of this Assembly in 2014. We have four laws of five that came after an emergency procedure, and that's about the percentage of the law that this Assembly adopted in an emergency procedure, adopted, 80%.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18850	Comrade Djurishic, we discussed this this morning... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18851	Just you slow down, I'm talking about the principle debate and all these laws and I think you can let me say something, because this trend is, unfortunately, getting worse. In December, of the 19 laws, including these five on the agenda, 18 are under emergency procedure. So there's no public debate, there's no quality debate in parliament, because these laws that came to us have almost a thousand sides. They were sent to parliament on Monday. As you know, we worked Mondays until 2:00 a.m. on Tuesdays, and Wednesdays we worked 23 hours. The question arises – what time and when were MPs able to prepare and discuss these laws? These laws are extremely important for Serbian citizens for economic development. We find it totally irresponsible to work this way and that's something in principle that has to be said, about all these laws together. It can be said that the reforms of the government of the Republic of Serbia are seen here. Do reforms when the government, or not even the government, since I have to say, obviously there are cowards in the government, political cowards...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18852	Mr. Djurishic, I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask you to speak more appropriately...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18853	I beg you, the prime minister told us and then it was found that the term "political coward" is legitimate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18854	I'm asking you to use the terms of decent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18855	Please, "political coward" is something the prime minister told us about here at least a hundred times Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18856	Please don't do that if we can get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18857	Please, "political coward" is a term that the prime minister introduced into this room and the chairman gave him the right to do so and now let me use only those words used by other MPs or ministers, prime minister, when they come here. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not make any insults here. [[off microphone]] What is this, why am I off? What does this look like? Can someone turn on my microphone? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18858	You didn't turn the microphone off, really. Let the technique look at what it is, I think you realize that the President of Parliament is not someone who technically manages. I didn't understand. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Okay, can someone turn on my microphone? You somehow managed to turn it off on your own. You want them to turn it on again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18859	Madam President, I most sincerely like you to let me do my job here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for which the citizens have chosen me. Don't turn my microphone off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18860	You do not deceive the public to claim that the President of Parliament is shutting down your microphone, it is extremely ugly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18861	Don't turn off my microphone, I'm the chairman, the microphone's off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18862	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18863	I didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18864	You must have spent one eight minutes arguing with the various presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18865	I certainly didn't turn it off, and that's your manners to turn off the microphone, not mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18866	Don't make it up, MP. That's extremely ugly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18867	Whoever's watching knows who's who and when they turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18868	That's extremely ugly. There are so many people sitting here, the President of Parliament, the deputy, the former president of parliaments who know...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18869	Does this time count for me now what you're saying? Can you let me speak within my own time? It's okay, but I'm asking you to let me go. So, political cowardice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18870	Please, wait, there's something weird going on. Now someone again, not the President of Parliament, has started counting time from the beginning and giving you time that doesn't belong to you, which is very interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18871	What does that have to do with me? How can I affect that?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18872	Just like I turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18873	How do I affect that time? I'm asking you to let me talk and don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18874	And I ask you not to threaten me and wave your hand at me, because I feel threatened in Parliament and I feel like you're threatening me, and I'm very uncomfortable with having a session when you're speaking to me, because I feel like you're making an aggression on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18875	I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18876	You're waving and yelling at me. I hope you'll apologize to me as President of Parliament, endangering the dignity of this House by yelling at the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18877	Will you not count me on this time you've taken away from me with your comments that are absolutely inappropriate and you have no right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18878	That's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18879	I'm talking about the cowardice of the government, because no one from the government, or the minister in charge, was allowed to come and tell us... Please, in transmission, citizens can't hear what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18880	Put your hand down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18881	Please don't tell me where to hold my hands. It's really not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18882	Put your hand down, I'm afraid of how aggressive you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18883	Don't be afraid, you have no reason to be afraid. I have never, unlike your party, physically harassed here in the past at the chairman of this House, had you no reason to be afraid. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: We did not vote from Athens, from Bodrum.) You didn't vote from Bodrum, but you banished the citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18884	Ambassador, I'm gonna shut you down now, so you're gonna start talking about the subject all over again. Now I'm gonna shut you down, I'm telling you in advance, and you're gonna get a word to talk about the subject over and over again when you're ready for it. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am ready all the time.) ) Just a moment, that technical services, since you certainly as an intellectual know and know how everything goes, does not have to give you instructions on how to work in parliament, and now technical services will allow you to start over, because you used all of this for other purposes. I have an understanding for you, and I won't be afraid anymore. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You shouldn't have been afraid. You've spent six minutes and 05 seconds. We can arrange how much time you want to get back, because we've been arguing. I'm told from the service, six minutes and 05 seconds. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: OK, I trust you. You said six minutes and I trust you. Here, to meet you halfway, that I took three minutes. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Can my microphone turn on again?) I have to delete the list, so you can reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18885	Thank you. I talked all the time about these laws and how they came to us and what message they send and what political consequences they have. I was talking about political cowardice, that we do not have a Serbian government minister who defended the Law on Planning and Construction, which we adopted 15 days ago and which we are now changing. And it was not for the minister to come here, but for the ruling majority MPs to put their signatures in order to correct someone else's mistake. I thought that was all it was. However, after the presentation of a previous colleague, where she was criticised for previous energy ministers, it may be because the minister who should be speaking here about the Law on Planning and Construction was two years of energy minister. Maybe we should ask the question – what was she doing at the time to make the situation so bad in energy, and it's only going to change now? Also, the picture of reforms is, and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights, where the deadline adopted by this Assembly a year ago is deleted, that the entry should be implemented by 31 December of this year, and now the deadline remains unlimited. The same goes for the Law of Parent Books. The state had five years to finish the job, and now the government is coming, in this case the minister, which is good, and he says – give us two more years. We think it's a real picture of the government's reform that can't do anything about what it has promised, that can't respond to the crisis that Serbia is in, that can't contribute to a better life of citizens, who can't even keep their own promises. I remind you, in 100 days, the government of the exposé has been told that some laws will be passed. Some have been adopted, but some to this day are not and obviously will not in this year, and these are very important laws, you will agree, foreign investment law, law on public enterprises, law on paying classes, mortgage law, registering of users of public funds and their employees and persons employed. So all these things from the Prime Minister's exposé, and there were 15 laws, five not adopted to the day of today, not in the first 100 days of the government, but in this year's first government. So the question arises – how can we believe that these two laws, which we believe to be good, are the Law on Energy and Law, or the Bill on Confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission, will be implemented in the way this law is intended. We have an open suspicion that these legal proposals will be implemented and will have the effect of the law. We believe that these two laws are good and we will vote for them, and since there are three other laws we will not vote for, we have put on this application for the word "against", and we will not vote for these remaining three laws. Now I would take advantage of the remaining time, which I don't know exactly how much it is to me because I was distracted by the chairman, to say and to ask a few questions, because unfortunately I'm not qualified enough or I've had enough time to get to know all the proposals of the Energy Act, first of all, so I can talk about all the aspects of that law. First, I would like to look at one thing that the minister told us at the beginning here, which is the fact that coal production from the Tamnava dig started today, and as the minister said, there will be 10,000 tonnes of coal a day, and this will satisfy all the needs of the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant, which is important for the preservation of Serbia's energy system, stability in power supply, and that citizens should not worry that there will be restrictions. I'd like to ask a question, and then what about importing coal from Romania that Serbian citizens are supposed to pay eight billion dinars? Eight billion dinars, as far as I know, started last week, no, he just started unloading this week, and the question is, did we need that coal in the first place, and the question is, in particular, what conditions have we agreed on? Is the price of coal in Romania between 32 and 35 euros and is the price of coal to be delivered here in Serbia 60 euros and who will take that difference? Is it that much of a transport cost and is it being transported in the trunk of some cars, if that's what it costs? The question arises – who does the job? People who previously had problems with the law in doing certain jobs, and what is the credibility of the companies doing the job? I would also like to ask the Minister's question, since I probably hope the citizens remember the scandal from the beginning of this year 2014, when the citizens received one-off electricity bills in January, if you remember the bills were doubled, tripled, and then the citizens could complain, I complained and then magically reduced the bill by half, because apparently someone wanted to steal from the citizens of Serbia. At that time, the same management, i.e. the same director was a p re a year like now, and I ask you a question from the Minister – do you keep them under control, do you keep an eye on them so that again in January, the citizens of Serbia, however impoverished by the results of this government's work, do not come into a situation to send them twice, four times as much electricity bills as it was in January last year? I think that's very interesting to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that if you were a minister, however, in the second portfolio a year ago, you are now in charge of energy, that you will advance your account and monitor how electricity bills will be delivered to citizens in December of this year. You will agree that this December was an extraordinary warm month in terms of external temperature and that electricity consumption must have been less than average consumption in December, and you can certainly tell us a lot about it, and I think that's what citizens are interested in. These technical things that are in the law, citizens don't know much about them, I'm going to ask one question – in Article 179, which practically forms a power market, or does it form, will the rights of the electricity market be formed and who will be in charge of control? Will the Securities Commission be in charge of control? It is said that because we already have the case that the Power Network of Serbia, as a company for transporting electricity, has registered for electricity trade, is it going to do something about trade, which is an unusual case in European practice and is not something you can find in other countries? I also want to ask a question based on something that's written under this law, and you haven't said anything about it. It is said that the application of Directive 2009/73, in order to implement this Directive, is necessary to enable, in addition to that, control, that control is necessary in two different ministries, control of transport and production of energy. Here you are saying that this directive would be implemented requires amendments to legislation such as the Law on Government, the Law on Ministry and the Law on Public Enterprises. I ask the question, when will these laws be amended so that we can implement the directive because then you here say further if everything above is not met, the performance of the transmission operator, or the transport system, will not be able to be certified, and neither will the regulation of the law be applied nor will the directive be complied with. So it is necessary to amend three very important laws, the Law on Government and Ministries and to finally pass a new law on public enterprises, which was a promise from the Prime Minister's exposé when we elected this government just over eight months ago. Finally, there is something in the National Energy Development Strategy. We have, and we heard that, the largest amount of electricity, 64% are produced from thermal power plants and used coal. According to the Large Deposits Directive, which is mandatory, it must reduce the emissions of harmful gases, and in order to reduce the potential of electricity generation, it is necessary to build new power capacities up to a minimum of 700 megawatts, because under this directive, it is very strict and very important, it is said that thermoblocks power below 300 megawatts, which are in our case Tent A1, A2, "Kostolac", A1, A2 "Mova", "Colubara" and Pannonian power plants, must be subsessionally withdrawn from 2018 to 2024 in order to reduce the walking emissions of gases. That in stronger thermoblocks more than 300 megawatts, these are TENT A3 to A6 and TENT B1 and B2, "Kostolac" B1 and B2, that they must make significant investments of over 600m euros to install a denitrification and denitrification facility, as well as electric filters. Given the complexity of these works, the complexity of public procurement in this case, as far as we can get away, because we can very easily get into the situation so that this job doesn't start on time, and because of the obligations under the directive, we start to shut down these smaller blocks and thus create a deficit in Serbia's electricity system, which will then have to be imported from abroad and thus the balance of payments from the Republic of Serbia will further deteriorate and create greater dependence on import energy, and energy security will also be threatened. The law does not provide for the entry of private capital for electricity distribution, if I have read well, and that gas distribution leaves the possibility of introducing a business capital. So it is said that for distribution, it is possible to give to companies with public, state capital, economic capital. So that's about the gas distribution. I wonder if, and I've read something about the energy strategy, and above all about electricity, and there is a danger that if it goes one way, Serbia may come down to becoming addicted to electricity imports and what are the assessments and whether a plan of dynamics is made to bring electricity prices into line with market prices, because without it, we will find ourselves in danger that the EPS is starting to create losses and burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, instead of creating additional value, making it easier to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia and strengthening fiscal consolidation that we talked about a lot this year, at the end of the year when we were reducing, due to fiscal consolidation, wages and pensions? Anyway, there are a lot of questions that I, unfortunately, can't ask anymore, because, if I understand, I don't have any more time. What is important is that if this law is adopted, the bill on energy will be consistently and qualitatively implemented. Perhaps specific laws for a specific type of energy, energy, means for electricity, gas, oil, because there are different dynamics for market liberalisation. The same dynamics are not foreseen for the liberalisation of the gas market, for the liberalisation of the electricity market and can be such a large-scale law, which summarises all these areas into one area, in one law, a problem with respect for deadlines and the functioning and operation of state authorities. I sincerely hope, Mr. Minister, that in the coming period beyond your mandate, the state of Serbia will move into these serious investment processes in the field of energy, above all, in the area of electricity, because I think that there are great potentials, perhaps the biggest, I think that energy and agriculture are the greatest potentials of the Republic of Serbia for development in the coming period, that this law provides a legal basis for these investments to be achieved, but the question now is how effectively the state will implement this whole programme and strategies. So will all planned processes be carried out within the specified deadlines? I repeat, there is again this danger that if it does not start by investing in these large blocks of TENT A3, A6, B1, B2, "Colubare" A1, A2, investment in desumporisation, that excluding these smaller blocks will lead to a lack of Serbia's energy balance and that we will have to import instead of exporting electricity, because Serbia has the potential to be the main exporter in the region of electricity, and that is probably one of the highest chances of the Republic of Serbia's economy. You talked about it, and I agree with that that big investment in energy is driven by the economy in various areas of construction and other segments and the development of society. In any case, we will support this agreement with the EU. I'm glad the Minister is here today and she said in the opening statement a few things. I thank her for that. I'm saying again, the only thing I'm wrong about is this law being passed by emergency procedure. I think that this dynamic could have been a little bit in line with our way of working, and that we could have gotten this agreement before so that not only us but also the citizens could get to know this proposal more well and know their full potential for co-operation with EU pre-accession funds, which are all forms of co-operation possible for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18886	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18887	Mr. Antiću, Mrs. Joksimovic, is obviously the nervousness of Mr. Djurisic, who will only be third in a series of those who defamate the president, the chairman of the National Assembly, only the third in a series that will honor us with "stoco", "snot", "snot," but tries to be more creative and to find a strong enough expression that will probably in political blindness and hatred to honor us all here, often pummeling, as you said nicely and said, Madam President, hands. Cowards don't come to parliament, Mr. Djurisic, and the other night and every time you called, when you felt the need to talk, representatives of the cabinets of Mr. Alexander Vukic and Alexander Vukic were here more and more than your MPs are here. Turn around, how many MPs of the former regime are here? (National MP Marko Djurisic throws out of place. This is a replica, Mr. Djurishich. Don't use that finger as a threat. I'm not afraid of you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Am I supposed to be afraid? Don't threaten, Mr. Giursich. On the other hand, you're talking about promises. Please tell me, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, remember one promise made by the DS in any aggregate state and that they are fulfilled. When I say aggregates, it kind of reminds me, it's the New Democratic Party, the Democratic Party, like the Agrobank and the New Agrobank. When they robbed Agrobank, they only formed "New Agrobank", but the goal remained the same. Tell me just one promise of the cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic that he gave, which he fulfilled from an exposé that was on three papers and where he couldn't wait to leave this National Assembly, which we've only seen on TV. Did you promise that through the financing of political activities, you'll take twice as much money for yourself as you did before, and now you're trying to get more for yourself? Did you promise the citizens 200,000 new jobs, and 400,000 of them are out of work? Did you promise a thousand euros to make Boris Tadic the president of the state? What a promise you made, and that you have fulfilled, that you have the right to honor anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18888	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Right on line, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18889	Thank you. Dear Chairman, yes, I was talking about political cowardice because the sixth month in a row no one from the government should come to parliament on the last Thursday of the month to answer MPs' questions, in line with the Rules of Procedure. I don't know what that is or what words to call it, except political cowardice. We were here every Thursday, waiting for the session to be called, for the prime minister and all ministers to come and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which doesn't give us much time, ask at least one or two questions. Unfortunately, we've never had a chance since July, but that's why we have a situation for the Prime Minister to come here, waiting here, I don't know what he's doing... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Did he come or did he not come?) ) The Prime Minister did not come but when the ruling majority MPs finished their presentation and then he came... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Did he come or did he not come?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18890	Please, Mr. Granny, don't. Of course they were all members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18891	He came when we finished our presentation. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Did he come or did he not come?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18892	Let Mr. Djurishic finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18893	I'm just saying when he came. He came when he knew he couldn't get an answer from the Rules of Procedure by the MPs, and then he created an atmosphere here that wasn't worth Parliament at all. He hasn't been with us here all day, like you kept saying, he's been with us for three hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18894	Mr. Djurishic, please, you have received a replica to replicate Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18895	Well, I'm replicating. Who expelled Serbian citizens in the 1990s? Who was against co-operation with The Hague tribunal? Who was taking down the name of Zoran Djindjic Street? Who drew the borders here in the Balkans, the new borders... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18896	Time, Mr. Djurishich. There's too much passion for the prime minister. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I have five seconds left.) You've got the time. You've replicated. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You interrupted me in one minute and 55 seconds. Here you go. Five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18897	Thank you. Who was the Minister of Information when Slavko Juruvija was killed?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18898	It's not worth it. Here you go, Mr. Grandmother, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18899	I'd be happy to answer that. Who led Serbia until 2000? The same people that you started basketball with in 2008 and that you needed to form a government, with which you were at peace, Mr. Djurisic, which was acceptable to you. I have nothing against these people and against those colleagues, but then you needed them, then they were great. You didn't mention it to them in 2000. Who drew borders across the Balkans? The same ones who sat on the boards of public enterprises of the City of Belgrade when you needed their support, the same ones who are now with you, with your rented MPs in the province's parliament, voted and supported the government of Bojan Pajtic, the same people. Yes, Mr. Alexander Vukic was Minister of Information for a year and a half, but he was the same Alexander Vukic who discovered and prosecuted the murderers of Slavko Curuvija, which you failed for 12 years. Twelve years you've had a chance and a chance to do it, but you haven't done it. What promises did you make? What have you done in this country and not fulfilled? Why don't you answer? What about 1,000 euros? What about the 200,000 promised jobs? What about politics – both Kosovo and the EU, so we are neither there nor there? In all that time, all you had was a chance to get rich, you only had a chance to ruin, you only had a chance to destroy Serbia by robbing privatisation. That's what you had the chance to do and that's what you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18900	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18901	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to answer to the MPs of Filipovski, but she's currently out of the O.R., so I'll answer later. As for Mr Djurisic's comments, of course the opposition should criticise. We do not want an opposition that is not active, no one in Serbia wants it. Personally, I don't feel like a political coward, nor do I think anyone in the government who has a political coward, because in the election campaign that we had for the first time this year in modern times, let's say modern, however we can interpret it, we had a campaign where one party and the current prime minister, Mr. Vukic, talked very openly about the measures that will be taken after a possible victory that happened at a high percentage. Therefore, we have spoken very openly what a reform course and what difficult and economic and political measures will be implemented for what it is our goal, which is Serbia's progress. I don't think that's political cowardice. I think it's very fair and I think that's why we are very responsible to the citizens of Serbia. I think the way that the previous governments, in which she participated, among other things, and your party, are not important whether it was the former DS or now as you were set up, but in any case, you participated in the previous governments. I think the president of your party has shown several times that the promises made have not been carried out. As far as I know, he apologized for it several times, saying he himself knows better than his political opponents did. It's okay what the man said. I think that's fair, too. But then let's not replace the thesis all the time. We talked about what we're going to do in the reform process and get citizens' support for it. You're right, you as an opposition should monitor whether we're doing what we said. If you disagree with the reform process and that's okay, that's your running policy and you haven't received enough votes. It's the foundation of democracy. At least you who seem to be more than a decade of yourself and eventually called the Democratic Party and said you were the only ones who knew the democratic process. If that's the case, then act accordingly. I really have nothing against criticism, believe me, and I am absolutely in the mood to discuss everything today, but I don't think it's a political cowardice topic for this government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I really think, and you prove me wrong. As for the evaluation of the reform process, if we do not trust ourselves and if we do not believe that we are good enough, it is fine, let us believe at least what they say from abroad or what the EU says is our strategic goal. You started it and it's okay and nobody's arguing to you that you started the process of European integration. We continue it, I mean more successful. Have the circumstances changed, if we're better, that's a question that citizens will also assess, but if we have results, we have. So the European Commission in the Enlargement Strategy for 2014-2015 says, in short, that I will not bother, that Serbia is progressing in the reform of the state administration. None of this is ideal, to be aware of this and the accession process serves to complete the reform process, but progress is being made in reforming the state administration, progress is being made in applying the Justice Reform Strategy and the Anti-Corruption Strategy. He is particularly welcomed, because after the adoption of the strategy, the Emergency Protection Act, which is a single law in the European area and which is a great incentive to fight corruption. Furthermore, a shift in regional co-operation has been observed, which has yielded concrete results in the fight against organised crime, etc. The legal framework for the protection of minorities is mostly good, especially the shifts in the field of human and minority rights, the maintenance of LGBT Pride, which you, as great advocates of democracy, have failed to organise for years. These are political criteria. I'm talking about political criteria now, not economics. So, regional co-operation when it comes to the entire Western Balkans region with candidate countries, several important visits at bilateral level, which, although abused by some, have been rightly accompanied by this government and Prime Minister Vukic, and for this we have received, I can as Minister in charge of European integration tell you whether you believe me or not, that we have all received support and in some way welcoming that course that Serbia has taken in the region. As for economic criteria, yes, some limited progress for 2014 has been found, but with the emphasis that a broad range of structural reforms should be applied to allow Serbia to be more competitive first and be part of the EU market forces. The laws in this assembly have been particularly welcomed, to remind you, of work, privatisation, bankruptcy. Here we are today discussing energy, planning and building. These are all the laws that the EU has also said will allow for a better investment environment. If a better investment environment is something that concerns you, because you are completely equal citizens of Serbia, like all of us here, and all of us are concerned about bringing investments, I think it's something that's okay. We can discuss the details and that's why you're here to submit the amendments. I believe that the resolution ministries will respect all amendments that will improve the legal framework. On the other hand, fiscal sustainability, reducing public spending, implementing structural reforms that would lead to or accelerate growth, among other things, are budget designs, which we adopted two days ago. What was important and what was an instruction or, let's say, a kind of suggestion by the European Commission is to improve tax collection. In this law, i.e. in the budget, we have predicted not to increase the rate, so neither the tax, but rather a better charge, which I think is also correct and that it will also be welcomed by the EU. Of course, they were talking about the need to reduce the number of administrative procedures, which is mentioned today by the Law we are discussing, the Law on Planning and Construction. So I really think that if we don't trust ourselves, then let's trust those who, under the watchful eye, follow our progress and our reforms. Is everything ideal? I don't think everything is ideal, neither do you, nor anyone in Serbia thinks, but that we are on a good path and that this government has taken a reform course, the citizens will assess if we don't insist on it. That's why so much support to the prime minister, so above all, of course to the prime minister as a simple man who runs one team in the government, but I guess then the entire government. I think he's very convincing. We expect a continuation of political dialogue, not to forget that part, that I do not want to avoid it, between Belgrade and Pristina, which hopefully will open up the possibility of being more successful in European integration. So all the regrets you've made can stand in one way or another, but the political cowardice, after all this, I don't think there really is any room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18902	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18903	First of all, I've obviously had the wrong assessment that my appeal for today is to try to be at the level of the importance of the topics we're dealing with, the importance of, above all, for the future of Serbia, to talk in a peaceful democratic atmosphere about all this, so I thought that this appeal worked, but obviously it was too optimistic on my part. I'm glad to hear that we're going to have support from the opposition ranks for the draft energy law, and I am grateful. I think it is a good political gesture, but on the other hand I cannot accept and agree with the estimates that political cowards sit in the government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, because this government is fully committed to changing Serbia and that Serbia is a better place for life and that it creates Serbia in which our children will feel the consequences, the positive consequences, of all the sacrifices we suffer today. This government is not a political coward, but perhaps too brave in relation to the strength of all the problems it faces and which is being tackled, starting with the adoption of the most difficult legal projects, which were part of the exposé and which are without any dilemma met, to the heaviest extent of fiscal stabilisation that is really hurting all of us at the moment, but in the long run, Serbia needs to bring a lot of benefits and benefits. I repeat, I cannot accept such an assessment, I cannot agree with it, and not because it bothers me with words, but because it does not answer to the truth, and I never accept the truth. Especially today, we talk about it when we have three ministers in the assembly, two of whom are ladies, and that says that we are not today, nor have we ever escaped from this assembly, and we are always here to answer all the questions. When the budget was adopted, I think we answered all the questions then and I think it would take a little while longer and it wouldn't have lasted so long that the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia were not part of that dialogue and had not answered all the questions. I need to comment on a few of the questions you've raised. First of all, today we've released coal production on a pile of Tamnava - the Western field. That production we started today is 10,000 tons a day. We've come up with about 75 thousand tons of coal a day, which, essentially, depending on time, can cover our needs that go up to 95,000 tons in those hard and cold winter days. We have not yet established a full coal production on the dig for the Tamnava Western field because the rehabilitation of that spear is not yet complete. We're now in the business of one banger, one rodent, and with it, I repeat, we're making significant production. These 10,000 tonnes of coal are produced daily in Tamnava – Western field. It is about 250 000 euros per day, or more than that, and almost eightm euros per month. It is important for our production of electricity and coal, and it is, without any dilemma, great news. If we add to that the fact that in the summer months, operating a rather skilled system and thanks to a lot of good hydrology, we've made over two million tons of coal reserves on the dump, hence the courage for me to say today that our energy system is stable and secure. However, we have several different stress tests that we have done with the Energy Community and the European Commission in which we have had to perform different anti-ciptions of different geostrategic events that can occur in our environment and on our transport lines of energy supply. For this reason, Serbia must be provided additionally in some of these scenarios. Therefore, we have additional amounts of electricity that we have contracted, first of all, with Republika Srpska, but also the need to provide additional amounts of coal, so that this coal represents an additional guarantee that in some of the worst scenarios we can convert it into electricity. The price of coal to be imported is in line with the calculation of the eligibility of costs for the production of electricity. Don't hold me to the point, but that price that Tent, or EPS got coal, Mr. Đurisic, if you want to hear the data, is 35.8 euros per tonne of franco Tent. So that's the price, not 60 euros. I think that's the price of disturbing the public. So 35th point something euro per tonne, and that fits the electricity production price. If it were more expensive than that, we wouldn't be importing coal, we'd be trying to get more electricity, because we'd be cheaper to buy electricity in a scenario like that. When it comes to the January account, from last year, I could say it has nothing to do with me, but let's tell the truth. It's the first month in which the account came out in a new form and new design and software. As such, he apparently had a lot of mistakes that were corrected and there were no problems in the months thereafter. That is the policy of this ministry, to achieve a strong relationship and try, under allegations, strong control and supervision of the work of public enterprises. I believe we have managed to impose ourselves on public companies and all energy companies as one serious partner they have to work with and who they have to respect. In that area, I believe we have good control and good communication with public enterprises. I think it's going to be good for their overall functioning and, above all, for the sake of the citizens. You asked a few more questions. You asked why this law does not foresee the introduction of a distributor in the area of gas? Because it's supposed to have private ones. So the current state of play is that we have 34 gas distributors operating with two transport operators, "Serbiagas" and "Yugorozgas". It's an actual condition. We didn't want to open our distribution system of electricity. Nobody does that if they don't have to, and we don't have to, so we didn't do it. When it comes to the market, or the stock market, I apologize, if you remember, it was in public a few months ago, the French Embassy signed the agreement on a "joint Vencher" project between the EMS and the French company Epeks Pot, and they will be the operators of the stock exchange in the joint arrangement. It seems to me that the project is called "Sepeks". (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Who controls the stock market? Who controls the stock market? If I wasn't smart right now, there must be a good enough answer to that question and I'll give it to you during the day. As far as the directive is concerned, first of all, we had to put it in both the strategy and all our acts. We are not happy that we have entered and without any dilemma, we will still negotiate. When it comes to these smaller bars of 300. When it comes to larger bars, we've already entered activities and major projects of detour, first of all, when it comes to TENT. We ended this one-block serious in Kostolc from that first stage of Chinese loan. And when we're off-limits, we've got that Jake and the Japanese investment that we're going to try in time to get this job done. Of course, building new thermo blocks that meet these highest standards and which will not be subject to that fear. So, the answer to your question – yes, we have entered into investments and the answer to your question is whether or not we are going to shut down this less – we will try to negotiate it well and move it as we are going to move it, I don't know if Mrs. Komic will come forward for a word, and I know that she started it, as we will be in the situation and obligations, and not just us, but most of the countries in the energy community, to once again talk about the subject of reality, that by 2020 we have 10% on biofuel mixing or it's realistic to be about 6%, which some newer studies and calculations say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18904	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word is Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18905	Thank you, Your Honor. I should now be entitled to three replicas because I am by three previous speakers, to say, mentioned, and my presentation was misread. But let me try, I don't know how much time you'll give me, whether you'll be as flexible as Monday. I am here called "political coward" by the prime minister. I don't feel like a political coward because I supported the policy of reconciliation in the region. I don't feel like a political coward because I supported the arrest of Karadzic and Mladic. I don't feel like a political coward because I supported a policy of fighting organized crime and passing a law on property acquired by crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18906	Mr. Djurishich, I beg you. You'll have time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18907	So I'm just replicating who's a political coward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18908	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18909	Here, I'm just asking for time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18910	You'll have time, but I'm asking you not to talk about you but to replicate those you think have given you the opportunity to replicate. Who misread your exposure, or who you think you should have the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18911	I don't think I'm a political coward because I supported a policy that led to visa waiver and the status of the candidate of the Republic of Serbia. And about what this government promised and didn't keep, here's a few things. Opening negotiations by the end of the year, the prime minister's statement since May of this year. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18912	I'm really not gonna let you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I ask you to answer. If you're replicating... (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I ask you to answer, you first told me... Mr. Djurishic, you now have the need to talk about you, about your character and your work, about your... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I ask you to answer. ) So please, if you think that one of the previous speakers has given you the opportunity to replicate, please replicate. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: That's what I'm talking about. That's all I do. So don't rephrase, you're talking about something that you think was, what was it. It's really not right. I want to go back to the debate, on this subject, to talk about the law that's on the agenda. I ask you, if you think you need to replicate the previous exposures, please focus on that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18913	Thank you. It has been said that the reform mentioned in the campaign. In the campaign, Mr Stefanovic, the SNS vice president, said there would be no cuts in wages and pensions, on the contrary, there will be increases. In February of this year, you can't do that. That's how you win the election. Here is the campaign for the local elections on Sunday, it says – you will live better in 2015. And last year, a year ago, it was said of the Vozdovac elections, it will live better in 2014. It's those promises that don't come true. What did the European Commission say about freedom of the media? What's... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18914	It's not worth it, Mr. Djurisic. I'm asking you to get back on the subject of talking about the law, you're talking about campaigns, media freedoms, all of it, and don't talk about the subject that's on the agenda. The People's Messenger throws it out of place. It's not worth it, Mr. Djurishic. You don't do anything else but run some of your campaigns, do locals, do any, I don't get it at all. You're not answering. I will not allow Mr. Djurishic to turn this high house into anything that is not a function of this home. I ask you, whoever wants to talk about the law that's on the agenda, to apply, will get all the time, even more time, but only on the agenda. Here you go. The word has a minister. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds alone? By the Rules of Procedure or what? Why do I ask you, the ministers have come forward, whether you have an advantage or they do. That's why I'm asking on what basis they called? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18915	Excuse me. Thank you for understanding. So 106 and 107. Because we have a situation that is often repeated in the congregation debate, Mr. Chairman. So we must apply the same rules to all participants in the parliamentary debate. Ms. Attending, Minister Joksimovic presented certain things in question form, some in categorical form and MP Djurisic is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, which you violated by not giving him a word, wanted to point to some inconsistency and, among other things, to answer the minister's question. So, in addition, you have a very clear agreement from the minister to allow the MP. Be careful how far we have come, that an executive official asks you, as chairman, that the MP of the Assembly has the right, in her opinion that I respect, to say and answer her question. And you hardheartedly refuse an executive official to give an MP, your colleagues, to finish his speech. Do you see how absurd that is? Perhaps for the first time in history, but this line of executive and parliamentary power is today your procedure, Mr. Chairman, seriously disrupted. We're just heading towards the Convention System, where we'll all be part of one executive government, and you've shown today that you don't care what the executive government says. Please find some consistency inside you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18916	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I, as chairman, am in charge of the order of Parliament's session. This is Parliament. I, as chairman of this moment, want it to seem more than you, that we here are talking about the agenda, that you have the time you want, even more time, but it's just my request to talk about the agenda again, that the ministers explain the law that's on the agenda, that you give your opinion on the law you've filed, but that we don't talk about anything else. We'll have a session when we can talk about everything and everything, but now I'm asking you to talk about the agenda and the law that's on the agenda. It's under Article 106, if he wants to get you one more time... Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. (Laughter) Thank Mr. Djurishic, some other time you'll finish your line. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Can I finish the replica?]] Anyone else hurt the Rules of Procedure? The minister, Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic, has a word. Here you go. Here you go, Mrs. Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18917	I'm sorry. So, I really did think I should have an MP say, but I don't interfere with the decisions of the National Assembly and you're right -- it's a separation of the power of legislative and executive and if the chairman of parliament felt that way, it's quite all right. I thought I could answer that, and now I don't think it's appropriate, since the MP left the Assembly and didn't want to hear it, then I won't say anything, besides that, and only that, that there is no contradiction between European integration and reform. Our reforms are the way to improve ourselves. Let it be open and a few chapters, but if we haven't started essential reforms, it won't mean anything to the citizens, not even to the opening of a chapter. I'm sorry, and we're all sorry we didn't open our chapter this year. Some political seems to me that the criteria have prevailed, but they are the ones that measure real progress in chapters. I hope we can do this this year, and I don't want to engage in this kind of debate any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18918	Thank you. People's MPs are getting it. The word has... I think it's groundless. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18919	I thank my colleagues who say I have no one to replicate, and those who leave the verbal battlefield should remain behind that children's song -- "Cuckoos are whining, knights are fighting." The Serbian Progressive Party has been very bravely promising heavy reforms in the campaign, promising measures that would not be popular. On those reforms and on those measures... He was worth the call. What has been fulfilled, and these are the measures that have been imposed. 61% of pensioners have not been reduced, nor will they be reduced, and those who have been reduced have been reduced due to devastating and poor populist moves, irresponsible, unfounded in the economy and moves that the former regime has made only for the sake of winning elections and survival, remains in power. One thing I'd like to correct you, Mr. Chairman. I don't believe that some statements and some of the bitter speeches are given in terms of some local choices, because you know these are political options and political parties that are so strong and so popular that they couldn't even put those few people, who would have put on the list, couldn't find, they didn't want people to get on the list of these political parties and not participate in some places in the elections. However, I would prefer that we speak here not as in terms of questions, but that some questions be asked to qualify for what you promised and to fulfill. Twenty minutes ago, I asked my colleagues in one replica, and 20 minutes ago, no one can remember a promise from the cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic, the former regime that was given and which was fulfilled. But not a single one. I remember 200,000 jobs promised, 400,000 people lost their jobs, but what was promised, and that was fulfilled, I remember what was said -- a statistical Serbia came out of the crisis in 2012, but its citizens won't feel it, but for some other things I really don't remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18920	Time, Mr. Granny. Does Mr. Djurisic want a word? Here you are, Mr. Babic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18921	I don't have any problem sitting around and discussing everything that's happened. Of course, it would be much better for us to discuss what's going to happen. But since you're always going back in time, let's go back to the past. So, what did this government do and what are those promises? It's getting candidate status, lifting visas for Serbian citizens. It is the opening of the "Fiyata" in Serbia. This is social peace in 2008 and 2009 at the time of the world's greatest economic crisis in the last 50 years. End of co-operation with The Hague. Fighting organized crime. By passing a law of confiscation of property acquired by that crime, against which you were. Against whom you were, as great fighters to fight organized crime. What do we have today? How does the European Commission see what more than three months has been going on in Serbia? Is this positively assessed in the European Commission report? How does the European Commission see the situation in the media in the Republic of Serbia? Are the media in the Republic of Serbia free or do you have censorships and auto-censorships? (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Struja. The current... I'm glad the minister denied what one of the tabloids wrote, not in this, not to say what the newspaper called that name, in the tabloid once, where it said that this price was supposed to be 60 euros when it was calculated. I'm glad it's not true, like it's not true many of the things they write there, which the ruling majority here repeats from day to day when it goes to their advantage, and this is what she kept quiet about, and when she writes about someone else, it doesn't raise questions. So we can have as much history here as you want, and every time you start that topic, I'll ask you the same questions. What kind of policy was your leaders in 1992, 1993, 1996...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18922	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18923	... 1998, 2000, 2003, 2005, 2008. Who organized the rally in Belgrade when Karadzic was arrested?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18924	It's 30 seconds enough for me to give you more. Mr. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18925	As far as the media is concerned, I'd like to ask Mr. Djurisic where he was two nights ago. In an unfree country, he was on the show with me. Public service. He could talk. He was talking in his voice, saying whatever he wanted and whatever came to his mind. Doesn't something like that happen in a country with free media? What are the facts disprove you, Mr. Djurishic, and that's what people don't forget. Fighting corruption. In the Special Court of Organized Crime with the team and such anti-crime and corruption fighters, do you know what they found? Three charges. Europe's most corrupt country with the highest crime and corruption rate. Three charges. Same people. We haven't changed anyone, because the judiciary and the prosecution and the judiciary are a completely independent branch of government. No one, these same people, just because they're told-- you're doing your job in accordance with the law no matter how or where. In a year 180 indictments have been filed and confirmed. I don't care about anyone, whether they're members, whether they're not members, whether they're close or not. Now that's a fight against crime and corruption. You mention some media, you mention some rallying. Why didn't you say Ranko Panic was killed at that rally? Why don't you tell me how many years you've been taping into a place that hasn't been discovered? Now the one who did something like that has been discovered. You say fighting corruption. When was Saric arrested? You're saying that social peace has been bought. In 2008, when, as you say now, you remembered in 2014 that in 2008 and 2009, the crisis was the biggest crisis, and then you, Mr. Djurisic, convinced us that the crisis was a chance for Serbia, that the crisis would not touch us, so when you weren't telling the truth...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18926	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18927	... then or now. Most importantly, we are now paying the price of your irresponsible policies and the non-recognition of the crisis we were in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18928	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18929	I thank the chairman. So, as you stated, as you taxed, therefore, the strike of lawyers and the European Commission's response, the position of the European Commission was expressed in response to the letter from the president of the Serbian Bar Association, I will not read all of it, but the bottom line is, I can give you the text if you haven't seen it, that the Commission has said that this is not a simple question that the European Commission should take the prot et counter to any side, to appeal that there is a solution that is compromiseable and acceptable, and that is all the European Commission has said about it. As far as the media is concerned, there have been, you know very well, three important media laws, and this is from that set of media laws, which was welcomed in the European Commission, that there are estimates that there is still no full freedom of expression, that there is censorship and car censorship. I believe that it was in the previous one, and I've read all the reports, so, and in previous reports there may be, the topic of freedom of the media is current. Autocensorship I am sure that there is an existence in Serbia and, unfortunately, it is an inherited practice and a way of collective thinking, not only of the previous government, but of a long time ago, and it is not so easy to eradicate. Autocensorship is not imposed by a decree, so it is not eradicated by a decree and therefore it is a change of consciousness, and European integration plays that role, among other things, that even when we open chapters 23 and 24 we come to an easier way to change ourselves, I'm sure of it. As far as social peace is concerned, I believe, someone has already responded, but I really do need to say that – social peace alone, it seems to me, the former President of the Republic has admitted that social peace really existed at the cost of borrowing and at the cost of non-economic increase and non-resonic, from an economic aspect, pay increases, especially in the public sector. And then the argument was, I must say, that it was all under the pressure of coalition partners, so said the president of your party. And we're a coalition government and no one, not even coalition partners, has blackmailed such a non-economic cut, because it can't. If you decide to do something, or there will be a consensus and your responsibility or there will be no one. This government is very responsible and truly coordinated and has no blackmail whatsoever, which shows the power and determination of this government. As far as borrowing is concerned, we were already talking about it during the budget debate, it was a costly borrowing of the previous government. I don't think they've done enough to argue, or to change the status of the company in restructuring, which we're dealing with now, but you've already maintained in the life of the company that you're then, I think, with the above, if I remember the figures correctly, let the documents, about 800 million euros annually, are financed by the survival of these companies by borrowing. It has now come to collect everything and through this budget the last one we adopted. I see some MPs laughing, I'm really sorry they're laughing, I'm glad if they don't feel the consequences of the economic crisis after the government's exercise and I believe you won't feel them for long, unlike other Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18930	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18931	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Becicu, member 106 and 107. First of all, 106, because we have to talk about the agenda point, and there's something on the agenda that has nothing to do with what's being said here, and 107, because there's an insult to Parliament's dignity in every way, because it can't be lied to like this anymore, and it deceives the people. Because when someone says the law here wasn't passed and the profession didn't consult him, and I don't know who, well, you know here with me is the letter of the Energy Community signed by the man Dirk Bushe, the deputy director, the head of the legal department, who gave all praise to this law. I'm sorry, it's impossible that the profession wasn't then consulted, someone wouldn't have easily signed it, and if he'd commended everything, he'd even warmly thanked our leadership. When someone here is talking about various reforms and what he's been doing, well, I'd just remind myself of what the Venice Commission said about your judicial reform. We were worst-cased as far as judicial reform is concerned. It is truly a shame that someone here is thus misleading the public and insulting the dignity of all of us and all citizens, to talk about judicial reform concerning this organised crime and especially corruption had only three cases in drawers. Not to mention, of course, the fact that we were at the bottom of the scale on the justice issue, which the judges on very strange criteria were chosen and were mostly party judges. Indeed, those who mention it should be ashamed to deceive Serbian citizens in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18932	Thank you. I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement to the Assembly? No, I don't. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm replicating the MPs from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Mr Djurisic transferred SNS MPs to allegedly in the absence of arguments to return to the past, and he did so all the time and did so in a way where he tried without eyes to deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I ask Mr. Djurisic, who is a little older than me, and I think he should have a little better political memory, did he hear that in 1992 the DS brought the so-called. A Sokoban declaration requiring the unification of all Serbian countries and the unification of the entire Serbian people in a single state, and is it known to him that the man who died tragically in 2003, and the same year 1993, mentioned by Mr Djurisic, turned to the Palace with the same Radovan Karadzic and the same Ratko Mladic? Speaking of Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, Mr Djurisic, I'm sorry, is there any judicial verdict against these people? Is it proven that they are indeed the criminals you show them? In fact, for you, they're criminals when you bring them into context with the SNS, and when they're in context with you, then you don't mention them, then let's kind of forget that political episode from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18934	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18935	You, Mr. Chairman, just to finish, draw attention to Mr. Djurisic that there are still people sitting here who remember those 1990s and what was happening in those 1990s and that the truth is not exactly what Mr. Djurisic represents.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18936	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, because I remember those years too. Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are now setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18937	We're continuing our work. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18938	Thank you. In their 10 or 20 minutes, as an authorised representative of the DS, I will refer to two of the proposed laws in a united principle debate, which are, more or less, good news for the National Assembly. The first is the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on rules for implementing EU financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia under the IPA II Instrument and the second is the Energy Law. For the first law, explained by the minister without the portfolio, Jadranka Joksimovic, I can only make a note of the damage, common damage, which the framework agreement did not deserve tomorrow's debate in principle. Consciousness about what a pity it is, unfortunately, is my assessment that it does not exist in this National Assembly. The awareness of what has been done to ratify this framework agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission does not exist either. But the damage remains. Why would it be important to discuss this in a special agenda? Because we are all here together, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia who proposed the Framework Agreement, we are talking and working for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is important to explain to them what IPA II is and why it is important to meet the deadlines as a country by framework agreement so IPA II funds can be used. What does IPA II mean? IPA II is an EU pre-accession asset for 2015, meaning the funds of the EU Member States' taxpayers to assist countries that are changing according to the EU's prescription. Why IPA II? Because in years behind us, since the EU enlargement until this last, biggest, 2004, then in 2007 and 2013, there have been various amounts of these funds and various recipes on how to spend 200m euros from its members, and for the needs of a changing country. And there has been abuse and reckless spending of funds, and corruption and everything that has been seen in the EU or the European Commission, since it has been like this. IPA II implies a completely different approach and a requirement to receive these funds and to monitor how you spend these funds and whether the value of each euro you have is really spent in the best possible way. Why was this agenda supposed to have a special session? Because Serbia is the only one of the countries that has access to IPA assets. So far, it has been said by someone in the EU -- this, as many millions, hundreds, as much as you want, of the euro is for the country, but we in the EU are deciding which way and for what and how the spending of these funds will be monitored. The decision that we are able to serve these 187m euros ourselves is a decision to talk about in this National Assembly, because it is the result of a great effort of various people, visible or invisible here in the European Integration Sector, from the European Affairs Office through any way of a member of the government representing through any government that is measurable and tangible to the EU, has shown that we are able to decide for ourselves and to track the money that we receive from the IPE. It is important to know what and what this money is spent on, how it is possible to apply for money, but for this there is no time when this framework agreement has been put into discussion together with the Law on Parent Books, two additions to the laws that have partly returned to the solutions that already existed and to one major energy law, which is another part of the topic I want to devote myself to during this presentation. The draft energy law must enter into force on 1 January 2015. That's what we said ourselves. It would also be important if this law had a special agenda point, because it is one of the laws where you previously made commitments to behave in the energy sector, and in line with what the EU says that we have accepted ourselves that we will have standards, no matter what part of energy we have applied. The draft energy law was the subject and conclusions of the Committee following the submission of the report by the Energy Agency this June, which concerns 2013. Our common damage and failure to plan work is that this report was not at the plenary session of the National Assembly, because at that time we would have a much better position to explain to people in Serbia the consequences of them produced by the Energy Act, once it was applied in the form that came, or with amendments that the minister would accept or will not. What is the essence of the Energy Act and why it must enter into force on 1 January 2015. These are words that we will use very often in this Assembly in the coming years, that we have an obligation to transfer directly some of the European law contained in the directive into our own right. It is a shame that in Serbia there is no possibility that this is happening in itself. We have, according to the interpretations, and a kind of constitutional prohibition to do so, but we will need it, and I think we will have changes in our legal system, so that the directives can be applied directly. This is the third package or third phase, as you like to say, which means what we're going to do to be renewable energy sources. So, wind, solar energy, biomass, waste, something that's renewable, something that's not coal that's an exhaustive source of energy, that's a spent energy source, or oil, or a mule, which is all exhausting and expendable. The whole idea of energy in the EU is that as much as possible all the energy we need is coming from renewable sources, not sources that are exhausting, which, some of them, can be seen from the end. I'm exempting the energy source from nuclear energy, given that we're here at a research phase, for which Germany has made a smart decision because the current investment in nuclear energy is exclusively an investment in the generators that the deadline has passed. I call it the "cosudian phase". If there is anyone who insists on abolishing the moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants in Serbia, then I immediately sign up to be a very organized resistance to it. So we're talking about renewable energy sources, and that's not just words. This means that the state needs to do a lot of things to get investors who want to invest in systems that will be supplied with electricity to renewable sources, they need to prepare their system. I'm going to try to get you to understand how big a problem that is. This civilization, a developed part of the planetary civilization that we belong to, or we change ourselves by trying to belong, has a power of 150 years maximum. When you look back from those 150 years ago, I'm talking about energy, not electricity, first gas lights, and over the first power plants, one of which was first in the Dubrovnik West, otherwise, over the first power plants, and then using the alternating current engine and alternating power generators to the application of the thermoelectric power plants, so nuclear power plants, that's fifty years. It's a very short period of policy that changes space. What Minister Antic does and what he is responsible for are the political decisions you change the space you live in. Another kind of political decision is to change their relationship in which you comply in one society. There's no more politics. There are these that make decisions in our society and these others that you change space for. The experiences of others show that the political decisions you change the space you live in can be disastrous. From there, an alternative political idea block, called green in the early 1970s, developed an official policy. If you had been in Germany or France while beating and disintegrating Green activists, if you had asked anyone if this was ever going to be an official policy, they would have told you – no matter what, we have nothing with them. "Green" is a long-standing EU policy. What we have a problem with this third package is that we need to open a dialogue in our society in order to bring together the legitimate demands of us "Green" who want political decisions so that they do not damage but use the space and demand of the Energy Act that we have planned for how much energy we need. That is why I had a dilemma about the submission of amendments that I shared on the Committee on European Integration, and therefore I asked the representatives of the Government to open a dialogue on what percentages we have and what results we have given ourselves. It can be very expensive if we stubbornly survive and stay around it, for 10% when it comes to energy efficiency or 27% or deadlines when it comes to the total amount of energy we get from renewable sources. You cannot negotiate essentials with the EU. They are, as they say, in a comprehensible English "rul maker", and we are "rul tucker", but we can always talk about deadlines. My request is that we have the awareness that every deadline in the chapter, both in Chapter 27 and in energy, and in agriculture, in all three 11, 12 and 13, each time period means money. That money has no place else to come except from the IPA funds I was talking about but from the private incomes of citizens changing their society and their country according to EU principles. That's why this law had to have an entire session. It is therefore important to explain to people in advance what compensation means for renewable sources, why they will pay for it for two years, five years, seven years. What does that mean in two, three, five or seven years in the region where they live? If we do not do so, we will create unnecessary full resistance in people because we will lie in a sentence in which many governments have led the process of the European directives – we would not, but because of the EU. We do not do this for the EU, but it is important to discuss it at the National Assembly sessions. My objection to the Energy Act is difficult and can be put into the form of amendments since other laws need to be amended, as regards the means of incentives. I don't think it's good for them to be determined every year and I don't think it's good for them to be anywhere in the budget. I think it's good to be a budget fund for incentive funds. To see exactly what that amount is and where it stands. The green dinar is very easy to lose in the budget, and unfortunately we were witnesses. These are some general remarks. We will return to the amendments to the Energy Act at least twice next year, as we will have very serious amendments to the law at least once before 2018. It is up to you to choose whether you want both 2015 and 2018 to be the same, speeded up by the proposal for a law on energy and the book of origin and the Framework Agreement, or we will understand that this is a common damage. Here, to cheer you up, there was an idea once upon a time in 2003, a minister who hadn't spoken to me in two three months to join the Law on Political Parties and the Fish Fund Act. He didn't make it. It costs conflict, but it's the integrity of the MPs. The sooner we start using what the integrity of the MPs is, the better it will be for everyone. About the other three laws, therefore, I will neither vote nor amend the Law on Planning, nor the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights, because it is about the laws that were in the Assembly all of a sudden, and it is about the fact that the one who submitted them was saying that it was wrong. It's time to give up the surface we're dealing with the documents on our own. For the Law amending the Law on Parent Books, I would ask my associates, Kori Udovicki, just to pass on one message to make that no more stamps are required in Serbia. You don't need a seal. The company law doesn't need a seal. You don't need an e-mail stamp. You don't need a seal. It will be enough for the resource that leads forward and that it really accepts the E-Government, and amendments to the Law on Parent Books are practically a resulting law. I must express my regret that we are so slow to accept such an understandable need to move in an electronic manner and archiving, and communication, to what we are all on the ground, which is the EU and European integration. My statement of refusal to vote for these laws is based on the message – you work a little more carefully, perhaps we can also vote, as is my remark for the framework agreement that I will be very happy to vote for it. I am sorry that Minister Joksimovic has not been from the beginning, it is my pleasure to say that the result she achieved with the introduction of the draft and with the government's decision to send the framework agreement to the Assembly is remarkable and therefore deserves the entire session of the Assembly. They would benefit from everything that you're so keenly defending by causing incidents and by talking about what if we let Minister Joksimovic have his five hours of debate on the framework agreement, because it's an important thing. I will support this agreement as well as the Energy Act, with the hope that Minister Antic will understand that my proposal to open dialogue during the year in whatever way you want to see energy efficiency, change of percentage or extend deadlines, is good for you. I always have a choice to say -- well, look, this government doesn't do anything and nobody benefits from it. When I say it, it means the government really doesn't do anything. But I'm telling you this because I don't think there's any more dilemma about the obligations you've made and that dialogue is needed first because of the people who are going to attack you, because of the papers they've received, because of the inability to join, because of anything, and that's only because we're speeding up and we're superficial in processes that don't deserve it, but they deserve a completely opposite attitude. With the hope that I will come to an understanding, I would ask that the congregation be informed of this in future time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18939	Thank you. We're going in line for how you've been exposed. The first word is made by Minister Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18940	I'm sorry I haven't been there since the beginning, but I couldn't make it because of the traffic, but they told me everything you were talking about. I thank you for your constructive discussion. Commissioner Komic, indeed, always as regards European integration, I think she has a constructive approach and I am always ready on the board and at all to accept every kind of, let me say, improving co-operation between parliament and the executive government and there you will absolutely have my availability at all times. I am not running away from the Assembly and how it should be done, and I was an MP myself, and how it should be involved in the process and European integration. As far as IPA 2, it is important, you are absolutely right that we have reacted so quickly since we are the first in the region to adopt a framework agreement. I think it's important that our citizens only know some details maybe that I haven't explained in the opening presentation. That's what we said in 2014. - 2020. The total amount is therefore 11.7 billion euros for all IPA users, of which 1.5 billion euros will be allocated for Serbia in these seven years. So we stay somewhere at the same amount as, perhaps slightly more, over the previous years about 200m euros a year. But what's good in IPA2 I don't know if it's mentioned, it's predicted that users, i.e. The countries benefiting can also be granted additional funds as a special form of special progress award towards meeting the criteria for EU membership, in implementing structural reforms or for effective use of IPA2, according to the assessment by the European Commission in 2017. So it's very important that this new, first sectoral approach, which will be based on the use of IPA two, be promoted and that is why we have really stepped up in the framework of government intersectoral co-operation. There are IPA units in all resolution ministries. I think they should be strengthened and better networked and coordinated. My role is to be a national IPA coordinator but of course it's just a co-ordinating role. Basically, all ministries are involved in self-use, effective use of IPA 2. On the other hand, I have already mentioned budget support as another new option. I've already explained that to me, but what's also important is multi-annual planning. So this multi-annual planning comes down to the preparation of multiannual planning documents, i.e. These sectoral planning documents that define medium-term priorities. So, citizens should understand, IPA and now IPA 2, they're not just the funds we use for different types of projects. At the same time and parallel to the process of IPA negotiations, two are also supporting our structural reforms, i.e. empowering ourselves to be more capable of using these funds. Why? Because when we become EU members, you know it very well, we can get a lot more money, a lot more money from what funds are the EU's cohesion policy. If we are not prepared as a state and as an administration to use for access assistance, then we will hardly be able to use multiple larger funds and this does not end with EU membership. There are countries that have entered the EU but unfortunately have not been prepared enough and I must say that the day after EU accession is also full of challenges that have proved, as I have already said, to some Member States. What I would still like, which you have touched as a topic, is informing, of course, the Committee on European Integration as well as the Assembly and at all control of the spending of IPA funds. What exists, therefore, as a reporting system for IPA implies, on the one hand, reporting on the results, and on the other hand financial reporting in a narrow sense of the words. As this was formulated for IPA one for 2007 through 2013, the reporting is foreseen to be carried out through coordination within that operational structure I was talking about, and therefore the IPA unit within different ministries and on a sectoral level. A special report shall also be prepared for the second component of the IPA, which is cross-border co-operation and these reports shall be considered by the monitoring committee of the first and second components of the IPA. Then, together with the EU, we have a "joint monitor and committee", one we held on October 17th on which we discussed the report, that is the IPA monitoring committee. This is of course delivered to the national IPA coordinator, the national approval officer located in the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission. It sounds very technical, but simply, that's the procedure, that's the rules. We did it this year. Financial reporting is done by the Ministry of Finance. So, the National Fund Sector is headed by a national approving, controlling and financial management and balance sheeting officer and spending the entire team's resources. This year in March of the month, so in 2014, we got an accredited system for decentralised management, which is one bigger seems to me to be a bite and a leg and we've already made some progress. To be fully open, there is more to be done, but together with the European Commission we are trying to find the best mechanisms and there is mostly a shift in this. What's important is to keep in mind, too, that this IPA reporting system, including IPA 2, is not significantly changed compared to IPA 1, it contains very relevant information, for it is very relevant information that arises from internal audits. So, projects themselves, then audits carried out by the audit authority, audits commissioned by the European Commission, these are external ad hoc audits for a particular project sample, and, of course, internal audit implies that each user has IPA resources. It's just that it's a procedure that's completely clear. So I saw during the debate on your amendment's budget, I wasn't there at the board's session, in terms of this reporting system. You asked, as I recall, twice a year. It simply does not comply with what we have as an obligation to keep one annual National Assembly informed of IPA projects. We'll do it anyway. I consulted professional services, and they explained to me that it was really such a big and procedural thing that it would really put a lot of weight on it. It is simple, let's say, from the local gatherings from all individual projects and everything, but in any case once a year the Assembly will be informed by NIPAK, so the National Ipa Coordinator will be informed and I am absolutely behind it and, of course, the National Assembly but also the competent Committee on European Integration. On all other suggestions, thank you very much for agreeing with you that this is an important topic for the citizens of Serbia and perhaps another sentence that is like a message. This was all a technical story, which is that IPA funds, so IPA funds are really the best way to raise, the first visibility of the EU's importance for citizens themselves, benefits and accessions, while at the same time improving our own system, using responsible, efficient and transparent and meaningful, above all, the means at our disposal and thus helping directly the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18941	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18942	At the very beginning, I want to join your evaluations regarding the overall activities that have been taking place in the realisation of IPA projects since the account is being conducted by my colleague Joksimovic, who has significantly improved this segment of work in the government and from the point of view of defining priorities and from the point of view of co-ordination between ministries that were not exactly at a great level before, and we have often strayed in all of this, both from the point of view of priorities and from the point of view of information. Now, just to say, this is some coordinating body that works at the ministerial level, and I really must, I wouldn't be correct if I didn't compliment that segment of work as one of the qualitative shifts in the work of the government. Although, perhaps for colleague Joksimovic, your good attitude towards European integration was not a surprise to me. Maybe a little surprise that one hearing and a special tone that you have on energy, renewables and to say the total of that green energy and I almost everything you've said I have nothing to add or to take away, but I have some things to explain. First of all, we have managed in these few months to significantly improve the reputation of our country within the institution, and above all I think of the energy community as well as the European Commission in a segment that deals with energy. At the last ministerial meeting of the energy community, we went to a meeting where, for example, BiH was to receive a red card, and Serbia was to get the last notice before the exclusion and because of the legislative work, and because we failed to take any step towards restructuring of "Srbigas". At that meeting, as good neighbours, we stopped at BiH's defence and they didn't get that red card because we weren't ready to vote. Because we think that in conditions where we've all been through and the floods and one major accident, we shouldn't have punished anyone further, but we've also made a series of arrangements with the secretariat on what we're going to do in the next period. The adoption of the Energy Act, the transposition of the third energy package was one set of issues and the restructuring of the "Serbiagas", i.e. the adoption of a restructuring plan for "Serbia" another step. On today, we can say that in both segments, we have succeeded. The law is before adoption. At yesterday's session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it adopted the document of the starting basis for the restructuring of "Serbia". I repeat, today our position towards these institutions is completely different from the position that was a year ago, or, not to speak within a period of time. We already how much more as tomorrow as partners who give results and who keep agreements far more quality to talk to these people, just these topics that you talked about today, about how to help and understand Serbia now, how to make this one model that will be sustainable, in which Serbia will go forward, of course, in accordance with its capabilities and, of course, according to our potentials. We will talk without any doubt, I repeat, not about the essence, because we have already agreed on the essence. The bottom line is that we go to renewable sources to go into their consumption increase in our total energy balance, but we can talk without any doubt about when what is real, what are deadlines, which are percentages in that phase approach. Personally, I think we're doing this percentage from 27% to 2020, we can meet and I believe we'll do it without any major problems. Of course, people in Serbia, as I didn't realize it myself, to be honest, until I became Minister of Energy, often don't understand that this electricity from renewable sources is significantly more expensive than electricity and commercial sources. People think, the wind blows, the sun shines, and that energy is retail free. They can't understand that one megawatt hour from wind energy is about nine times more expensive than the Gerdap hydro power plant, or four times more expensive than the Tent, and that one megawatt hour from solar energy is one 15 times more expensive than Gerdapa and seven times more expensive than the Tent power. And objectively, we have to make this very balance, between our non-European commitment, which is not to the institutions, that's our obligation to our children, and the generations to come, that should live in a healthy environment, and objectively our financial opportunities that are what they are. We'll take those steps. I repeat, I believe we will reach that 2020 by 27%. Maybe it's an expensive bite for us, we'll see, we'll follow, but now as a party that talks to them, as a player who's finished what we agreed on. As far as biofuels are concerned, we have had a lot of bilateral meetings with colleagues from the region these days, and we have had now during the Chinese summit, given that it wasn't Chinese, but our summit was, we have had talks with both Macedonia and other countries that are part of the energy community, and we all have this problem of about 10% of biofuels. It is something that we may run as a common position on one of the next Ministerial Councils of the Energy Community and try to agree and agree on. I believe that from this new position we are in, this request and that word of ours will be worth far more than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18943	Mrs. Comic, on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from the post: Two minutes to answer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18944	Thank you. That's exactly what I'm talking about. So, before the next Council of Ministers, just imagine, what John Lennon would say, that we regional parliaments should set up a joint meeting where we support your position with a joint declaration. So that's what I'm talking about. It is therefore important that this is not the way to talk at sessions about your sector, but at one, in one day, etc. For percent, too, one public listening here, so people know exactly what it means, whether it was 10% from either 8% or it's 6%, because it's all on personal income, like a property tax. This must be clearly told people that the process of European integration costs, as a personal property tax that you take out of your pocket, that tax when you get a solution. You don't see VAT, you don't see different, but you see property tax. What's more important is that in law you have yourself set a deadline of one year for sublegal acts. I haven't seen the minister or the law or the sublegals yet, that it happened in time. If you need to have some phase conversation here with the Committee on European Integration, or the Committee on Energy, for three or four months, here's my suggestion, right now give you a deadline for the first phase of sublaw making, because otherwise we're going to give in to mentality, and we're going to start doing that when all the deadlines are over, and the damage is going to be common. I thank you for your response, and I hope that you will really carry out what you promise to do. We're here to remind you, to help and control. For Minister Joksimovic, I only have one question, since I do not have the correct information – is the Ministry of Finance decided on who is the person for IPA, because I know it was, that it was missing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18945	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18946	... Agrarian payments, and what's important is that we know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18947	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18948	Around the sublegal acts, you're just looking at ministers who will meet the deadlines you've given, and believe that's how it's gonna be. We're not talking about it as a parole, but we're already, let's say, in principle, we've got this jump, and we have a partnership with the Energy Community that we've already agreed to work on together. These are the most common models that are already known. It is about the known legislation, and the sublegal acts are identical. That's what I forgot to say, and that's why I called first. I absolutely agree with you that co-operation between the ministry, government and parliament should be strengthened. We highly appreciate the work of Mrs Tomic and her committee, which is resolute to us and we have maintained this communication in some dynamics, and I fully agree that perhaps at the level of the committee that will be open to, that is, it is always open and addressed to all other MPs or in any other form we are talking about all of this and about any dynamics and necessary in certain specific situations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18949	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18950	Yeah, you're right, it got a little late. A national approval officer has been designated and the decision has been made on this. I think the government needs a solution now. I'm not sure if the decision has been made. It's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18951	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18952	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow ministers, fellow MPs, I reported on purpose behind my colleague Komic because she opened a lot of topics that are very interesting today and today's session was supposed to have a fundamental one solemn character because first we here should give consent to the confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on Practical Finance, the IPA Line Two, on a single set of laws which will make Serbia practically withdraw funds for the next seven years. Accordingly, we also have energy laws to implement the third package of the directive, which is due to enter into force on the first of January 2015. Essentially, this session should represent one of our commitment to this European path, and what this government essentially shows will benefit every citizen in everyday life, starting with this agreement concerning the European Commission with IPA two funds. where the funds to be placed through certain public calls will also be available to local self-government and the non-governmental sector. Simply and that citizen will have insight into this, after all, and how these funds are withdrawn in different areas and what Mrs Jadranka Joksimovic said that 125m euros are foreseen for energy. It is also linked to the Energy Law, which should in fact show that Serbia is capable of dealing with the most difficult problems in the field of energy, and this is why. What my colleague said was that indeed the problems that are in Serbia and in the green energy and environmental areas, as well as new strategies in terms of energy development and the strategy for energy development and the EU, including Serbia, should be this coherence, and much cannot go overnight. Many things require one way, a process, and many directives that we now implement in the laws have yet to be implemented, and that implementation will certainly not be easy for us to say, so as not to say hard. What I wanted to inform you, since we all follow different committees somewhere, is that the Committee on Economy and Energy is really very active in this regional co-operation with the countries in the environment, or the countries of the Western Balkans, especially in terms of energy, and what Mr. Antić said, we have contacts with our colleagues, the Committee's presidents who are also energy and legislation, and I can tell you that we can praise that we are the first in the region to pass the law with the implementation of the third package of the Directives which are simply the obligations of the Energy Community, and as Serbia has been the signator since 2005, it has had to implement the second package first, so it passed the law in 2011, where it was essential, the formation of the Energy Agency, which is in the power of Parliament's work. Let me just say that the example in some countries in the environment isn't like that. The agencies, for example, are in the combined jurisdiction of the government and parliament. So, after all, Serbia has gone further as far as that goes. In the third package, it is necessary to make this essential separation of the manufacturer, the supplier from the distributor, that is to establish this so-called electricity market. What I think is that one big step is that the Energy Community, in co-operation with parliamentarians, since 2013, has started its progress reports on Serbia in its process, reports on the Energy Committee and simply organises joint sessions with parliamentarians. We as good students, good students, and that part of the networking of the Committee on Energy of the Western Balkan countries, so since there are certain initiatives of the Energy Community to network parliamentarians, precisely because of this stronger control and intelligence, in the end, in relation to the Energy Community Council, there is an initiative for the establishment of the Energy Community Assembly, which is in the process, sent to the European Commission, and this is some procedure that should take place over the next two years. I want to say that we are still very active in development, even in the idea that energy policy should look both in the Western Balkan countries and somehow as much as it can and at what pace it can follow EU energy policy, because the EU does not impose solutions on all of them. Each country chooses a way to implement certain directives, i.e. European regulations. Finally, we had opportunities, my colleagues and I, to attend a fourth interparliamentary session organised by the President of the Green European Parliament, attended by the director of the Directorate of the European Commission in charge of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, where they said that their projection by 2020 is that, for example, it's almost as practical as building a new thermal power plant, but when we talk about energy efficiency, today is not a topic. I must remind you that while Ms. Mihajlović was a minister, since 2012, she has practically started these legal changes first with amendments to the law in 2012, if you remember, the Energy Act, and then on March 15, 2013, a law on the use of electricity, which we actually call the Energy Efficiency Act. What is very interesting is that Europe, for example, plans by 2020 to invest in this area of energy efficiency for all EU countries should be around 360 billion euros. So it covers all 28 countries. Given that the EU imports electricity worth one billion per day, it is quite understandable that, compared to certain political changes, for example, we have now had a change in the "South Stream", it should also plan its development according to the circumstances and that is what is happening in the Western Balkan countries. Therefore, given that Serbia has this proactive stance, Serbia also chaired the Energy Ministers' Council in 2013 when Professor Zorana Mihajlovic and indeed many solutions were practically given here and started from that position. What I'm saying is that each of us has made a certain contribution to this law that we have today. Before I say something about the law in essence, I would like to remind you that the energy community in its report, which was submitted on 30 September this year, said there was progress in the practical implementation of primary and secondary regulations, that the legal framework is mostly in line with the second package of laws, that the market opened was foreseen by that 2011 law, and that the Agreement on the principles of co-operation on the establishment and operation of the stock exchange, which was the issue in the morning debate, is practically starting with the signing of the EMS and EPEX SPOT, which is an international organisation dealing with transnational networks, in May 2014, and this is the first concrete step towards which we have the establishment of a Serbian part of the market, i.e. the stock market. The EMS signed a Network Management Agreement on 15 September 2014. So the stock market doesn't set up overnight. A business with such responsible directives with such a responsible regulation is now creating what is at the level of the Republic, which is at the level of basic legal solutions. It's just, it's gotta be a process. As the adoption of sublegal acts is a process, and this process takes place. Sublegal acts are much easier to form because they are in the power of government adoption, but I still think that by working together we can and we can work on it to adopt a new strategy in which we are obliged, and this Parliament will talk about it. It's a strategy for energy development from 2015 to 2020, and it's something that we're tasked with doing together in the future. What energy needs to be said today is that a lot has been done in the area of renewable energy sources, that this law covers our obligations regarding electricity, gas and renewable energy sources, but it should also be said that in June 2013, the National Action Plan for Renewable Energy with our European commitment to 27% of us have the share of renewable energy sources in electricity consumption, that we are now at 21.2%, that this platform was created approximately potential by 2020 at 1092 megawatts, from which half will go to wind, 438 megawatts to mini-electric power plants, 100 on biomass, 30 on biofuels and the rest practically on geothermal water and solar. Why solar? Because, indeed, in EU countries, that green energy is the most expensive. For this reason, conditions should be created for investors first, and I think that by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction, conditions have been created for investors who are interested to come and actually start building such objects. In addition to what is important to us from the area of renewable energy sources, it is not necessary to ignore this social dimension of the essential price of electricity. That's what we at joint conferences in the region pointed out, that somewhere that social price of electricity is actually what it keeps, after all, and the social peace of every citizen and his household and that's what we can't possibly forget. Why are we talking about this? So if we started with this market principle and started to apply certain directives directly and without the support of IPA II and without the support of the citizens for reforms, who have made it clear that much needs to be changed, then we would get a large number of investors who would start from their point of view that their only motive is profit and then simply couldn't deal with all the changes we have to deal with by 2020, especially when we talk about legislation. That's what's very important to say, especially when it comes to gas. If the directive, which is the basic third directive, is to be implemented, the practical separation of gas competencies, and that is what the separation of the work of "Srbiagas" and "Yugorosgas", that part was also impossible overnight in certain parts. As a result, both the ministry and the Serbian government, by adopting the UPPR yesterday, or the pre-prepared plan, have shown that it is truly capable of carrying out some of the things they have been waiting for 10 years, but to implement in such a way that Serbian citizens have no harm. We've waited a lot for solutions like this. I'll say the previous governments didn't even have the Ministry of Energy. In the reconstruction of 2011, the problem of renewable energy sources has been taken over by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Building and Environmental Protection. We had an energy prime minister's advisor, which proved irresponsible, because really at a time when you need to change a lot of things, especially in energy policy, and when you go towards opening negotiations, or adopting and harmonising regulations with the EU, it is simply politically irresponsible. Finally, when we are talking about gas at all, what is very important to say is that this Energy Act has passed several debates with the Energy Community, especially on these two issues, the ESM issue and the issue of "Serbigas", which, from the EU's point of view and the Energy Community, is such a subtle application, would have had lunch with many of our legal solutions and ultimately with some constitutional legal definitions, so they simply could not have been applied to such a definition. And in that debate, there was a way to implement the third package in law without destroying at this moment neither the Constitution nor what is called state property. So in general, this Energy Act is something that will give more weight to the Energy Agency in the future. By the way, I think we should have discussed the Energy Agency's report, but apparently what they call reform laws came into order before. So, at the moment that we have a report from the Energy Community on Serbia's 2013 progress, he, together with this new law and a practical report from the Energy Agency, will be able to be the subject of one of the next committee sessions, and could also be the topic of a special session of the Serbian Parliament. I think it would really be important to all of us, especially that a lot of MPs participate in the work of international organisations on this matter, on these topics and are really involved in creating some new solutions, and that perhaps our colleagues who deal with some other topics and are not sufficiently informed in some way. As for the legal solutions that we had the opportunity to hear, and they are part of this package relating to changes in the parent books and amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, I would just say that we and this economic competition to the informal parliamentary group relating to economic reforms together with NAED have had the opportunity to hear that many are changing, that is, modernising and reforming this law concerning planning and construction is tanging sectoral policies, and this policy, which is the first one to strike is energy. So we are also those proposals relating to energy, many things are involved in this bill, so the ministry had the ear in making a lot of things to accept. What could not be accepted was defined and that is what Minister Antic was talking about. What I would finally say, as I have started with European integration, would end up with a significant role for Serbia, especially in that part when you have an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission, is important EU assistance in implementing these sectoral policies. For this public hearing, we should thank Minister Joksimovic for being, to explain to us the details of the sectors in which the EU will work together with Serbia, together with local self-governments, together with parliament, together with the ministry, with the civil sector, in order to make us all better. I think that the team and the work of the MPs will be so much easier to understand, that today we have no exposure as we had in the afternoon, where some MPs have shown that they really don't have a good understanding and have no idea of certain topics. When we talk about energy, we need to get good information. I am pleased that DS will support such a law and that Mrs. Comic has had the opportunity to participate in this topic, although it is not her profession, but obviously she has been well informed and read about it and can comment. There is a will and desire for the committees to co-operate with each other, and as Mrs Joksimovic managed to form and gather all the representatives of the ministry to hear what European integration is, it is not bad for committees to really hold board meetings together in many ways and by many laws, where they would be informed about many topics in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18953	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18954	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister Antić, Honored Minister Joksimovic, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing a set of laws from different areas, which are equally important for Serbia's economic and economic development. It is certainly very important that we are discussing the Energy Act today, which is a whole new draft of the law and refers to an area in Serbia's economy which is given great attention to by the EU, because the obligations arising from the EU accession process are largely linked to energy. That is why the proposal for this Energy Act is in line with EU provisions, all in order to ensure greater security for citizens in the supply of energy, while guaranteeing greater protection. Energy is Serbia's biggest development opportunity with traffic and agriculture, especially when it is considered that, according to experts' estimates, Serbia could even half of the energy produced from renewable energy sources, and the future of European energy policy is just the participation of renewable energy. The development of industry in our country depends on investments in the energy system and energy projects. A great opportunity for our country and our businesses and the energy system in general are joint investments, among other things, in principle our businesses, foreign investments. Lately, we have many examples of this in both agriculture and energy. Here's an example of Kostole, where the Chinese, by investing in our businesses, helped us. Serbia has comparative advantages, especially when it comes to energy, as well as countries in the environment, countries in Europe and the world, because they need what we have, and we need to take advantage of it. We have significant amounts of coal, such as primary fuel, hydropotential, which is unfortunately not used enough, wind, solar energy, then bioenergy potentials, etc. It's all a chance to attract investment. Serbia has the energy sector, as one of the most important sectors, because it has great potential for attracting investments, for new investments in new capacities that will use renewable sources and for building new gas power plants. That is why, as Minister Antic said, we must open the door wide to investment and investors in energy and create an investment environment, improve the energy system and work to build new energy facilities. This law, of course, is the chance to hit a new foundation in the development of energy in Serbia, to make a milestone in the development of this sector both for the benefit of the state and for the benefit of the citizens. A good legal framework, increasing the efficiency of the power plant and protecting the environment are of great importance for Serbia's energy development. What is important is that this proposal, as we have heard from a co-worker from the SNS, fully implements all the EU's third energy package in the area of the gas and electricity sector, which provides greater protection for final customers. This is very important, first of all, because we are all aware that there is a certain amount of dissatisfaction with our citizens, which is particularly expressed at the moment when they get an electricity bill, because these accounts are complicated and incomprehensible, then one of the citizens' objections concerns their insufficient intelligence, insufficient information, etc. Detailed consideration of the provisions relating to the duties of suppliers in the context of informing final customers about the content of the accounts and the availability of short checklists to inform customers of the conditions and how they are entitled to exercise their rights will be a way to eliminate all or mainly what citizens otherwise have objections to. Moreover, by liberalising the electricity market, which creates an opportunity for citizens to choose for themselves and from whom and under what conditions they will buy electricity, while also increasing consumer supply control will greatly raise the level of services, the quality of the supply of electricity by suppliers. For us, of course, as an SPS, as a socially responsible party, it is very important that this law also contains provisions relating to protected customers of electricity, those who are socially at risk, so that pensioners with minimum incomes, single parents and citizens who are in the social protection regime will still have the right to free kilowatts. Next in a series is the law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, which provides for the amendment of only one member, Article 97, paragraph 9, which refers to the payment of contributions to the construction land. Namely, the abovementioned member of the Law on Planning and Construction, it is envisaged that the contributions to the regulation of construction land are not accounted for for for public works and facilities in public property, infrastructure facilities, playgrounds, open sports fields, athletic routes, municipal and infrastructure line facilities. We have heard from the legislator, colleague Katarina Rakić, that it has been omitted to indicate other objects that should be set free from payment of contributions to the construction land, such as manufacturing and storage facilities, underground floors used to build vehicles, storage rooms, etc., and, of course, the provision remains that this applies to children's playgrounds, athletic trails and open sports grounds. The payment of compensation, i.e., contributions, under the new Law on Construction Land, is a question that has been depreciated for a long time amongst, to say to builders and at the level of local self-government. Among the builders because this contribution to the construction land is a cost that largely collects the cost of construction, and in local self-government because the contribution to the construction land is a significant revenue for local budgets. Given that the situation in Serbian construction is as it is, or not great, and that the aim of the adoption of the law on planning and construction, among other things, was to help the construction industry and that the value of the works carried out by performers in Serbia has fallen significantly, and we also know that construction is very important in the entire business system of Serbia, because according to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the construction industry accounts for more than 11,000 companies with more than 115,000 workers, which means that construction in the total number of companies in Serbia participates with more than 13%, and in a total number of employees with more than 12%. For Serbia there was construction and there was another economic driver, because this activity also pulls 30 other branches and activities from design, design, wood, machine, electricity, etc., industry. Because of all this and due to Serbia's economic and economic recovery, conditions should be created for this branch to be revived, to create the best conditions for the arrival of investors to build on our premises, above all, production facilities. Why, first of all, manufacturing facilities? Because there will be new jobs in these production facilities, and thus new employment, which is very important for us and for our government at these times when we heard and when we discussed the budget. The government's priority is to create new jobs, is to create conditions for investment and investors, and as much employment as possible. On the other hand, the fear of local self-government that in this way it will lose a significant part of the budget can be removed and can be justified, because local self-government will have the opportunity to rent through various fees, companies, property taxes, leases from investors, which will build on land on which they have the right to rent, means, out of leases, from income tax, because one part of the income tax remains local self-government, compensates for this loss that is conditioned by the loss of contribution to the construction land. Also, the amendment and addition of the Law in this same article and attitude applies to the payment of compensation when it comes to underground floors in high-building buildings, which serve for garages, storage, laundry, except for those used for commercial purposes. In my discussion, when we discussed the Law on Planning and Construction, I also raised the issue as a matter of just the amount of payment for the construction land for underground floors in high building, which in some self-government was charged in the same amount as for housing, which was needlessly a great cost for investors and, of course, had a negative impact on the investor's desire to build at all. We really support this change of members and it is a great relief for all investors who will build in the future. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction also changes the position relating to the coefficient of the zone and the coefficient of purpose. The law provides that the coefficient of the zone cannot be greater than one, and the coefficient of the purposes of one and a half, making sure that the unit amount of the contribution for the most expensive purpose in the most expensive zone cannot be 10 times the amount that is cheapest. It is true that the term “zone” is insufficiently defined and that there may be an inability to apply this member and to abuse this member. The question for the bill promoter is, if we change this relationship, what's going to happen, how will local self-government determine how much is the difference between the cheapest and the most expensive zone in the world? I'm afraid, since I know the self-will some local self-governments express in terms of determining the amount of contribution to the construction land, I'm afraid that because of the abolition of this attitude, there is no abuse. Maybe we could have defined it differently, maybe we didn't, but here's a clear question for the legislator. In the case of amendments and additions to the Law on special conditions of entry into the catalogue of immovableities of buildings built without a building permit, when this law was adopted, the MEP group supported, of course, the adoption of this law because we understood the need for a unique record of all the buildings built in Serbia, regardless of whether they were built on the basis of a building permit, or without a permit. Since the adoption of this law was possible to enroll buildings in the building and use of permits only, it was impossible to make a unique record of buildings built without a building permit, and there were many and there were still more than 1,300,000. We know that despite the adoption of the Law on Legalisation, citizens still have neither the desire nor the intention to legalise their facilities, so that this law was a perfectly acceptable way to enroll all objects built on the territory of Serbia in a cadastre, in order to have insight into the total number of buildings built. The law stipulates that objects which are not entered under this law and are not legalised under the Law on Legalisation cannot be alienated, or that the transfer of property rights on these facilities cannot be carried out without confirmation of local self-government that contributions to the construction land have been settled. But in the same article, it was allowed to in any way protect the owners of objects that were built without a building permit to protect themselves from destruction, whether or not their objects are registered under this law, or only a request for the registration of objects has been submitted. It is true that according to local self-government, situations have occurred that the inspection bodies, despite the fact that the facilities were registered under a special Law on the registration of buildings built without a building permit, that the inspection bodies were making decisions on the destruction of such facilities. Fortunately, it has not been destroyed and achieved, but it has certainly remained that there is a need for the owners of such built objects to be legally and legally protected and we support this amendment to the Law on Special Conditions. Given the up-to-date nature of the technical and personnel equipment of the catastra across Serbia, which we have already discussed several times, we believe that it is also necessary to amend the period of validity of the law ending on 31 January 2014, because if we did not do so, we would lose our ability to achieve the objective of the law, which is the entry of objects that were built without permission under the Law on Special Conditions, because we know that disaster, except at the request of the citizens, is obliged to register these objects under official duty. In the voting day, the parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in this set that we are discussing today, because we believe all these laws are equally important for Serbia's economic and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18955	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18956	I would also like to thank Mrs. Spasojevic and Mrs. Tomic for one very constructive and reasoned approach to this discussion. Of course, Mrs Tomic, as chairman of the board, is extremely familiar with all segments and activities of the Ministry of Energy and all processes in which the Republic of Serbia participates in the issue and co-operation with the Energy Community and other international institutions. Mrs. Spasojevic has had several very interesting proposals regarding some new projects, which we will consider without any dilemmas and which when some questions are and we are working on. With all the compliments for both discussions, just two little corrections. When it comes to energy-protected customers, we subsidise not only kilowatt hours of electricity, but this institution and the energy-protected customer institution are also valid for a meter of cubic gas and for a certain amount of heat. So there's one broad picture, and I repeat, that's something that, I think, this Parliament should be proud of, because in this time of general saving and fiscal consolidation on that item in the budget, we've left absolutely the amount of money needed to maintain the level of social care and protection we've had so far. When it comes to Mrs Tomic, we did not adopt when "Srbigas" is UPPR. UPPR is one legal and judicial model to get the company out of bankruptcy. We, when it comes to "Srbigas", have brought a restructuring plan as one model that we have defined as a hodogram of activities, when it comes to "Srbigas", to make it more efficient on one side and adapt to exactly what we are talking about, and these are energy directives. I repeat, by June 30th, "Srbigas" will come out of the process as one vertically structured company, an integrated company, with legally separated energy activities, with the idea that, at some point before us, when all conditions are achieved, when we implement the financial consolidation of "Serbiagas", when we get an alternative pipeline, we will carry out in accordance with European directives and the second step and here, to say the ownership, separation in accordance with the directives.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18957	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18958	Thank you. I wanted to answer my colleague's question about the coefficients and about the area. For example, in Article 97, paragraph 2, which is deleted, is deleted precisely for the reason that the price cannot be higher than 10 times. With the text of the law, we've just arranged that the price is in the range of six times. So it can't be 10 times, and it's exactly one of those mistakes that I made, which came by accepting the amendment. In the next position, it says – extremely good provisions – the unit of local self-government can determine a different coefficient by its decision. It is precisely this word "different coefficient" that is disputed, which means that in such a way the unit of local self-government may exclude its parts in general from paying compensation and that is what is controversial, this interpretation is controversial, which is why it is proposed to delete something like this, and local self-government certainly has until January 17th to determine the coefficients of the zone in its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18959	Thank you. Since authorised representatives have used their rights, we are now moving to a discussion of MPs who have applied in writing, so the first in line is Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18960	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, I will especially address Minister Antic. First of all, I want to thank you for your contribution to the launch of production at the Kolubara Mining Baseline, together with the Kolubara workers during the unprecedented floods. The energy sector and its activities represent one of the most important segments of our economic system and affecting all other industries, and thus the lives of all of us citizens. That's why it's natural that such an important area must be legally very precisely arranged and I think that this bill is to the greatest extent possible to achieve it. As a second very important feature of this legislative proposal, it would indicate that it is making significant adjustments to the rules in this broad area with the European Union's regulations, as well as that this new law will serve as the basis for the adoption of a series of sublegal acts. The current Energy Act was adopted in 2011 and agreed with another energy package. The decision of the Ministerial Council of the Southeast European Energy Community since 7 October 2011 established a commitment for the Republic of Serbia to implement the third energy package from 1 January 2015. The main element of the larger package is the stricter conditions for the separation of operators, transmission system of electricity, i.e. the transport system of natural gas, significant strengthening of the authority and functioning of the independence of the regulatory body, the improvement of the coordinators of operators in the region, especially in the area of investment planning, the improvement of the functioning of the energy market and the greater protection of electricity and natural gas customers. Although this law deals mostly with matter relating to technical rules, the principles of internal regulation and business between manufacturers and end consumers, I believe that the most important member of this law is the one who speaks about the energy-hazarded buyer, which is Article 10. It lays the legal basis for the future of our most socially endangered citizens to be able to supply energy, special and privileged prices, which will all be regulated by sublaws of the Government, which I hope will be brought within the shortest possible time. As far as the professional regulations passed by this law are concerned, I think they are very precise and improved compared to the current law. As the most banal example, I can quote Article 218, which defines for the first time what it is and who is obliged to maintain a protection belt around power lines and above-ground power lines, which we have recently seen have not been maintained in the best way since age, care and lack of cleaning grounds. The new rules on licensing and licensing are of greater importance to which this procedure will be more precise and very important I consider new solutions that will create more favourable conditions and give incentives for the construction and use of smaller electricity systems, which will use renewable energy sources, the sun, wind, biomass, geothermal source. In line with the trends and regulations that exist in the European Union, it will be our commitment for a future period, because we will have to adapt the structure of our electricity system by increasing the structure of energy, which comes from renewable sources. By creating easier opportunities to build smaller buildings, we will, on the one hand, get a potentially higher competition from energy producers and thus try to make energy prices cheaper, and on the other hand, the entire electricity system will become more stable, because during the catastrophic floods this year, we have had opportunities to see how vulnerable the system is and the power supply of Serbia as a whole is difficult when the "Colubare" and "Tent" systems are in difficulty. Just yesterday, the "Colubare" workers showed and proved their courage, skill and high professionalism, as they managed to bring production to an earlier normal level by working day and night to resuscitate the effects of the flood. For these reasons, access should be made to the trans-Balkan energy corridor projects as soon as possible in accordance with our capabilities. Although most of the law deals with issues related to the production and consumption of electricity, I believe that the idea relating to other energies is well done. In particular, I mean the part about oil and oil derivatives, where more rigorous procedures related to the energy trade process are prescribed, which is certainly positive for the state of finance. The honourable MPs, since the draft energy law is another one in a series of laws harmonising our legislation with the legal assets of the European Union and creating a good basis for further progress in the field of energy, will therefore give support to the adoption of this law, as well as all other laws on the agenda, in the day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18961	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18962	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are gathered here to discuss five draft laws, four of which came by emergency procedure, and one came in a regular procedure. The first on the agenda is the Energy Act, which should answer several important and strategic issues. These are primarily the following issues – how to ensure security of energy and energy supply over a long period of time, then, electricity price policy, natural gas and heat, although we know that the price of heat is now in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but this law should also, at least, open these topics, open electricity markets and natural gas and use of renewable energy sources and incentives for renewable sources. First of all, a few words, for information, about electricity, production and consumption of electricity we have data that I have reached that total production is about 32,000 gigabats, that final consumption is about 28,000 gigabats, that losses relative to gross consumption are about 15%, that households in that quota, i.e. In this amount of electricity spends about 14.5,000 gigabats, that those who are low voltage outside households about 5.5 thousand gigabats, that middle voltage buyers are about 5.5 thousand gigabats and that high voltage buyers are about 2.5 thousand gigabats. What is still important to us Serbian citizens is what our electricity imports are. This was around 2,304 gigawatts in 2010, 1,800 gigawatts in 2012, and 2,032 gigawatts in 2012. That's the data I've been able to get to. The third, very important thing is the price of electricity. Price of electricity, i.e. price on the market in the environment, i.e. in our environment, it's about 42 euros per megawatt, while we have about 30 euros per megawatt hour. What regulates the electricity price for final customers consists of the collection of the cost of production, purchase, distribution, i.e. charges on this supply manipulation, these manipulative costs of supplying electricity. This law provides that the energy activity of electricity production is not an activity of general interest and that is something that is in this extensive material that we have obtained. But we have that one problem consensual to Article 2. Law on public enterprises, which is currently in force. He says that the activities of general interest within the meaning of this law are activities which as such are defined by the Law in the fields of production, transmission and distribution of electricity, production and processing of coal, research on production, processing, transport and distribution of oil and natural and liquid gas, transport of oil and oil products, rail, postal and air transport, telecommunications, issue of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" etc. The activities within the meaning of Article 1 shall also be activities of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, as well as the activities necessary for the work of the national authorities and bodies of the units of local self-government established by law or government act. Such a solution that has been applied since the Energy Act is valid is so that it is not possible to apply the strategy of the Republic of Serbia's energy strategy and the strategy programme. In this way, we simply prevent the long-term stability of electricity supply and the use of conventional power plants with domestic and cheaper energy, i.e. coal. The current regulated, or controlled price of electricity, in a public supply activity, is proposed to be called - the supply is guaranteed. It is further provided for in this proposal for a law that the price of services can be regulated, i.e. to abolish price controls in the period until 2017. I think it is necessary to open the market, which is good, but only on condition that such a market will benefit customers. Judging by what I've seen in this law, I doubt that's what's gonna happen. It is not only enough, Mr. Minister, to apply, to rewrite Directive 72 of 2009 and to allow the change of suppliers, but it is essential at which price electricity will be offered to customers. In view of the above, and when we add to this a solution to this bill that the supply of electricity to a large extent can be made possible by shamed legal persons, whose business and financial capacity are not easily proven and whether they are in liquidation and bankruptcy, am I wrong to say that opening up the market can lead to total chaos in households and businesses if you as a ministry do not have an adequate response and the possibility of controlling the same? It is also important to define the criteria for use in the production of electricity of the most favourable power plants. What does the institution mean by the most favourable power plant? Does this mean that management is left with the ability to easily suppress domestic production and is defined for imports of electricity? I'm not saying this because I'm underprivileged and I don't want to do a good job of your ministry, but I am opening up as possible dilemmas that are imposed by reading this law and the other laws that are related to the functioning of this law. All these activities and bad decisions in regular and crisis situations will eventually be paid by us, the final buyers, and you ministers, and me as someone with you about it. I certainly support the opening of the market, but such a degree of market liberalisation, without some concrete and strong control, cannot afford much more developed countries that are EU members. Article 2 sets out a solution that puts national legislation in a subordinate position to the Treaty on Energy Community, although it does not stand in a ratified Treaty on the Energy Community. It is clearly noted that the specificities of the Contracting Party must be respected. Finally, it is not rare that some countries in the environment, with the agreement of the Energy Community, have delayed the suspension of regulated electricity prices for a period of five years. That's the case you have in Macedonia. A similar situation is also in the work that processes the use of natural gas. Since I have very little time, I'm going to see if I can skip this data I've stored on natural gas consumption. It is enough to mention that all customers, except for small customers, go to the market on January 1st 2015 and what the preliminary prices say, and I am afraid to be and wish I were wrong, is that they will be more for about four or five dinars per cubic of natural gas. We agree that the prerequisite for opening the market is the solution that you gave in your law, i.e. in the draft law for vulnerable customers and it is good that there is, i.e. that there is an institute that you have introduced – an energy-protected customer. In the part of renewable energy sources there is no relevance to some models of how biomass can be used, both forest and agricultural, and in the system of district heating and combined facilities for the production of electricity and heat. Even the possibility of creating a regulatory framework and institutional solutions in this area is not listed, which should be implemented in the next period. If this was settled, it could be discussed the biomass market and the Republic of Serbia would not be left at the mercy of large wood waste producers. For solar power plants and wind generator energy will remain in force. No one in the previous period explained this solution to any investor in a comprehensive and rational manner. One small finding based on your claim that no matter how cheap and accessible it seems, the energy of the sun and the wind is more expensive than the thermopower plants and the hydropower plants if you view the production and installation of these plants at the same time as the wind generator. I don't think you're right. It is a Đerdap cheap, but after how many years of production, if you count on maintenance rather than building an object. Warm energy as an area has been unfairly neglected in this area, as well as in previous laws. The largest number of countries in the area have solved, as you well know, ten years ago. The integration of investments in the network of electricity and natural gas is not processed in the most qualitative way here, as it is solved in developed countries. Thus, ownership of these networks is not defined in a fair and logical way. On the one hand, the investor is allowed to build the connection himself and transfer it to the underlying assets of the distribution or operating system operator, and on the other hand investment is allowed, e.g. a transmission system with the right of exemption from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. What I think is good, is that the potential investments that people who build plants, apartments, buildings, and participate in building and creating connections to electricity, I mean the trafo stations and trafos, by this law, are being rejected from the price of municipal connections, which is good, in contrast, from the city of Nis, where investors, at least as far as I have the data, are obliged to make, i.e. give them the opportunity to make trafos, make the trafo cells complete, transfer the distribution, and then subsequently track the electrical energy connection. So, this member of the law and this part of the law that deals with it is at the benefit of investors in Nis and they will probably be very grateful to you for that, because they won't have to pay double. Further consideration should be given to the adoption of individual laws on electricity, natural gas, heat energy and markets. We have this experience from the environment. The harmonisation of the domestic regulatory framework for the EU regulatory framework and its legal assets are, in fact, activities for each commendation, but there is no explanation of the impact on electricity prices and natural gas. Does market principles apply only when prices are increasing? You didn't process that in the bill. Could it happen to us that the price of electricity is rampant? Of course no one wants us to understand each other. But without serious analysis as far as the Republic of Serbia is prepared to open the market and to the extent that two such dominant EPS and "Serbiagas" participants are subsequently in their actions and not controlling suppliers of large electricity and worship with such status that it does not have to be registered in the Republic of Serbia and especially highlight this as a quality solution, it is far from good reasons for adopting this law. That's why with a dozen amendments, we've tried to suggest that we see a solution to certain problems imposed by the members of this law. What is very important, we do not oppose all of the above goals that you had in law. So we absolutely agree with the harmonisation of the EU's domestic regulatory framework and its legal assets, as well as the confirmed international agreements signed by the Republic of Serbia. We further agree with the creation of conditions to ensure the safe supply of the Republic of Serbia's electricity market. Furthermore, we agree with removing the shortcomings in the application of the current Energy Act, which you pointed out in your opening address. Then, we agree with an increase in the level of transparency of competition protection and non-discriminatory behaviour. We agree with the protection of all categories of customers, especially energy-hazarded customers. We agree with the ban on subsidising energy subjects. We further agree with the creation of conditions for the efficient functioning of the electricity and natural gas markets. We agree with the creation of conditions for the establishment and functioning of an organised electricity market. We agree further with the creation of conditions for achieving a binding national target for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and the consumption of biofuels in transport. We also agree to curb the illegal oil and oil products market. We also agree with strengthening the Agency's independence and meeting the European Commission's recommendation from the progress report on the Republic of Serbia for 2013 and 2014. However, the way it is processed, we doubt that it will happen in the years to come. A gradual opening of the market is needed, not the most liberal way, because I think and I am convinced that the society of the Republic of Serbia is not ready for the rapid opening of its market. Not to be afraid, Mr. Minister of Slow Progress, but to stand in place. What you're doing is not standing in place and it's good what your Ministry does. Directives 72 and 73 of 2009 were prescribed only to be respected in my opinion without a more serious understanding of the fundamental change that must happen and ultimately, who will pay for it. I hope you will consider our suggestions and consider our amendments and I hope that we will have a good reason to support your laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18963	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18964	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers of the minister, today we have a set of laws that are very important for Serbia's further progress and movement towards reform. Making one better environment for life and work. Otherwise, this government is facing reforms, and it is clearly seen by what it is now and its work. All laws that are passed also, all amendments and additions to the law have a reform character. This assumes a change of consciousness and habits in the day-to-day treatment and resolution of many important issues for the future and life of our citizens. At every step, a reform step needs to be taken, the mosaic of a new business and living environment needs to be kept constant, to put the cube at risk into the mosaic of a new way of life and work. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, the key provision of this law is to correct the error made in the recent adoption of this law. It is about the release of contributions to the construction of construction land, for manufacturing and storage facilities, underground floors of buildings of high construction. Exclusion of production facilities is important for encouraging economic development, because we are seeking re-industrialisation and we are really facing a major problem here. We can save as much as you want today, but without production and without economic recovery, that is, industry has no further progress. So you need to use every moment, every moment and do at all times the convenience to be more competitive. Every detail of any discharge is important, it is important to make every convenience, every benefit for the investor. He's attracted to every step of one, two or three of us, to the burden of local self-government, who are partners with investors. He may be back in step four or five in full. So that kind of philosophy, looking ahead, is the only way we can get better. For these reasons, it is certainly good to make a correction in this part of the law and accept what the Proposer has proposed. When it comes to the Energy Act, we need to come from the fact that the elemental resource is of first-rate importance to the prosperity and future of all mankind, it's actually energy. It is important to point out that the prosperity and future of each country depends, in fact, on this resource. In addition, the policy of the most powerful countries is shaped and defined by interests, among other things, in the field of energy control and energy power. So with that in mind, it's very important that we as a country be part of modern and current flows in a wider space in the energy field and keep up with it. In fact, by passing this law, we are taking yet another or several steps towards embodied our normative with the EU's normative. The previous law, which was passed in 2004, began the process of reforming the energy sector. To a large extent, this law has also started implementing the provisions of the second package of regulations. In the meantime, a third package of regulations was introduced which should be applied to the end. It is important to point out and to praise the energy policy that is heading towards the use of renewable energy sources, as well as investment in new capacities in electricity production. A good example is a billion-dollar investment in block 3 in Kostolc, the size of 350 megawatts. Thirty years have not made a more significant investment in the energy sector, and it is therefore commendable that one such investment has been capitalised these days by signing the Protocol and signing significant contracts towards the conclusion of this large investment. Of course, in addition to commending the current minister and his associates, what was the work in terms of hitting the foundations of co-operation and towards the start of this big investment, one of the previous energy ministries headed by Petro Skundric, should also be mentioned. In any case, it seems that the Ministry of Mining and Energy is really stable on its feet, really holding firm everything that is a field of work and normative in this area, successfully matching the provisions of the law with provisions of wider space in Europe, shows the willingness to deal with all problems at any moment, such as during the time of elementary disasters and gives hope that this ministry will indeed make a major shift in the future and do everything towards the progress of our country, and this is very important because energy, agriculture, infrastructure are key areas that give opportunity for a better life in the coming period. Dear Mr. Minister and Associates Minister, I wish you success in your work next year, the SPS will certainly support everything you do and do and the policy you implement together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18965	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18966	Thank you. Dear Ministers Antić, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, of course, that the MP group of SPS in the voting day will unreservedly support the proposed amendments and additions to the law as well as the Energy Act, and I will only commit myself in my presentation to the provisions of the Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on immovable property. Given that energy is an area of exclusive competence for my esteemed colleague Ivana Dinic, she will, in any case, issue a highly competent and professional position of the SPS parliamentary group. Dear Minister Antića, given that you have dealt with this matter and how well you understand and how well you understand the legislation relating to construction, planning, especially spatial planning, I will ask you to transfer several of my extremely well-intentioned suggestions in this discussion to the co-worker, the distinguished Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, given that her ministry has indeed done much to finally introduce order in the area, both spatial planning and construction. Unfortunately, when we passed the last Law on Planning and Construction, we did not norm what we intend to norm today, we intend to systematicize, so that indeed the law on planning and building would experience its full capacity, that is to say, in a practical sense, to have a full degree of efficiency. Why am I pointing this out? Because, first of all, the SPS parliamentary group unreservedly supports the motive of the legislator to put these proposed changes ahead of us, and I am quite certain that we will accept them. A team earlier, as the promoter recognized, here is a particularly appropriate number of MPs, and I also thank the distinguished colleague Katarina, in terms of what was given as an explanation for these changes and additions. Why am I talking like this? First of all, motivation here is about one very important factor, which is to allow investors to invest in local self-government units. Whether it's cities or municipalities. In this respect, the contribution to the construction land or, as is often said, the compensation for the planning of the building land will no longer be charged, nor will it be paid for public property buildings, and what is particularly significant for the production facilities of the warehouses, etc. Of course, there is indeed something in this direction that at the level of local self-government on the one hand will cause a certain degree of self-respect, because it is certain that local self-government will not accept our well-intentionedness as a legislator. This is completely understandable because every local self-government fears that the implementation of these changes and additions will result in a lack of funds in the budget, i.e. that the budget will not be filled in properly as it has been filled out so far. How'd it fill out? It was filled in precisely by charging for building land from investors and of course it was a significant part of the source of revenue that was being poured into the budget. There is a problem that can in practice multiply, unfortunately causes serious problems somewhere even by refusing investors. The best example, i.e. the illustration of such a thing, is exactly the city from which I come from, which is Užice where, in the principle debate on the Law on Planning and Construction, in two years, no building permit has been passed, which is because of the ineffectiveness of professional services, which is because of the different interpretation of the law, especially the law that was in force before we passed the last Law on Planning and Construction. On the other hand, there is another additional problem that has been given to local self-government, local self-government units to form on their own, both the criteria for calculating the compensation for building land, i.e. the construction land, and, on their own, on the basis of these criteria, they are calculating at prices that they sometimes know to be very high even by the letter. For example, Chajetina and Užice are only 20 kilometers away, and the difference in the price of land planning fees is incredibly large. Why is it not accessible to one way of thinking that could, on the one hand, be without restrictions on local self-government, without depriving their competences which have been attributed to them or prescribed by law, at the same time the sublaw does not regulate what should be a kind of framework, and the framework implies defining the criteria on which the calculation of the compensation for the construction land is to be made? Only then would we come into some balance that, for example, certain units of local self-government do not reject investors with extremely high pay amounts, while other units of local self-government have far more tolerated access, investors are approaching precisely through prices that involve relatively adequate prices for what the obligation implies, and it is an obligation to pay compensation for the construction land. If this is not regulated by a sublegal act, then every unit of local self-government has, in my view, and by the view of the SPS parliamentary group, undoubtedly a large discretionary authority. Whether this is practically correct and acceptable, it remains again and again for the promoter, as well as for the restoring ministry as a future proposer to analyse and evaluate. What also seems important to point out here, is that in the case of, say, the concrete town of Užica, which unfortunately was the city around which investors were bypassing, it will now have the possibility that exactly the investments start coming, precisely that what the distinguished colleague Spasojevic pointed out, to start with employment, building production plants. This is ultimately the obligation, declared by the government of the Republic of Serbia to help bring investors, in addition to having the same obligation as the leadership of local self-government and thus the town of Užica. Then how do you lead to the ultimate goal? On the one hand, we have a situation where the budget can undoubtedly suffer from an inadequate flow of money. On the other hand, this inflow of cash is trying to replace the sale of land, renting or other legal work. Of course it can be some sort of compensation for what local units, cities, or municipalities lose. We came up with that information that was listed here and in the proposal. How will the relationship between investors and local self-government be regulated when it comes to integration into infrastructure content? Of course by contract. The contract has so far been the legal basis for regulating relations between investors, cities and municipalities as a unit of local self-government. This was not a problem when it comes to public utility companies, in particular "Electro-business", in particular some other companies that are the holders of certain rights on infrastructure facilities, particularly the right to have, manage and use. Of course, it should also be considered that future system solutions make it easier to make it easier for units of local self-government and investors far faster, far more efficient to come to the ultimate goal, which is as simple as possible, which is a cheap way of joining infrastructure content, i.e. infrastructure network. All these dilemmas, of course, and all these issues will remain for some later regulation that will be defined, I am confident, in future laws, especially those that relate to the area of planning and construction. What is related to the other law that we are changing today is the Law on Special Conditions for Property Rights, and here I have to make it extremely critical in the name of all of our MPs that no one here will question, and that is that we have come to one extreme paradoxical situation because, on the one hand, the building inspection has full legitimacy to destroy an object that has no solution to a building permit, or a building permit solution, has no solution to the use of the permit, and are listed in a catalogue with property rights for the benefit of the right holder of property rights. So, on the one hand, there is a full legitimacy and foundation in the law that the building inspection destroys such an object, and, on the other hand, the owner signed up with such an object as the owner of the catastro. On the one hand, this involves the restriction of property, even the elimination of ownership rights, because what will be his naked property in case of destruction of buildings, and on the other hand we have something we cannot prevent, which is the application of the law by inspection services, specifically building inspections. Right now, by passing this law, this great paradox, this great absurd, is avoided by the fact that the construction inspection will not be able to destroy the objects for which the registration process of the right of ownership, in accordance with the provisions of the law under special conditions for the registration of property rights, started, as well as in cases where the registration of the right of property has already been carried out. Indeed, it had to be done before, and this law obviously suffers from this great shortage, and this is exactly one major shift forward, and I am convinced that in this way it will prevent the construction inspection, although it works according to the law, although it applies the law, does not yet bring into one very, very, very delicate state of the holder of the property rights which it has entered in the service of the stairway of immovableity, although it does not have for its building, construction, or use of the permit. Of course, that is why there is support for the SPS with such changes and additions. I hope that these extremely well-intentioned suggestions can serve in further normisation, in the further systematicisation of the laws we are discussing today, and I will repeat again, as is the authorised representative, the distinguished colleague Spasojevic pointed out, the MP group of the SPS will support the proposed legislation in the day of voting, i.e. the law as well as the law on amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18967	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18968	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today are very important topics, i.e. points on the agenda, of which I particularly single out the proposal for a law on energy, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's necessary to stress how important this subject is. I think it is unnecessary to stress the importance of affirming and presenting our steps towards establishing a quality, modern and efficient energy system in Serbia. This law, in its opinion, is exactly what it aims to do, and therefore I strongly support this proposed law, which continues the reform processes in this area, which are reflected in ensuring the safe supply of Serbia's markets with energy and energy, removing all shortcomings in the application of existing, or applicable regulations, harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation, creating conditions for a functional and efficient market in electricity and natural gas and protecting all categories of customers, particularly the introduction of a term, i.e. those categories of energy-hazarded buyer. I think that today we have heard a lot of arguments in favour of this law at today's session, and I could not include all the details, but what we should point out is that by adopting this law, we are taking over the provisions of the third EU energy package in the area of the gas and energy sector that has been sufficiently and mentioned here today, which provides for and implies amendments to a number of regulations so far, as well as the resolution of a large number of problems that have been present in this area so far. In addition, it is important to point out that this law aims to create conditions for further development of electricity generation from renewable energy sources. I therefore welcome the fact that renewable energy sources are subsidized in our country and I welcome your statement, Minister, in which you predict that by 2020 we will be spending as much as 27% of the total energy from renewable sources. The 27% in Serbia's final energy consumption is also the goal set by the 2012 Energy Community Council of Ministers' Decision, when we are also established and obliged to implement a directive relating to the use of renewable energy sources. It should also be pointed out that these solutions fully open the electricity and natural gas market as early as January 1st next year, thus creating a possibility for new energy operators to emerge on the market, which promotes competitiveness and enables customers to choose suppliers freely. So that's something that will directly lead to greater competition and more successful functioning of the market and that, in my opinion, is another one in a series of benefits that this law produces. What I would also like to welcome is the introduction of an obligation to obtain consent for the storage of oil and petroleum products and fuels for my own use, for own vehicles on their own stations because this creates control, the records of oil derivatives flow are established and to some extent suppresses the black market, which is also one of the effects that this law will produce. Energy sector reform is something that is directly and largely affecting the country's general economic development, as well as the increase in investment activities and the quality of the market. These are all the reasons why I support this bill and I hope that we will adopt it in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18969	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18970	I would like to thank Mr Markovic, Jovanovic, Mihajlovic and Bradic for the constructive discussions and suggestions that my associates and I have recorded, the support that feels from all parliamentary groups. This is indeed very important to my entire team, and I believe the entire government is extremely imploding, because it is proof that this work that we have now and before the Ministry of Energy has produced through one general consensus that this legislative project has a quality that is at the level of those expectations that were ahead of us. Of course, there's always a suggestion that it can be something better or different. I would first of all like to give Mr. Bradic a firm conviction that as soon as we finish this session we will return to the ministry and take a good look at all the amendments. Of course, the spirit of the law must be accompanied by the spirit of reform that we are trying to establish and enter into those trends and flows that are part of our European path. That's where I want to look at a few elements. When it comes to market liberalisation, the basic condition of liberalisation is that it is not discriminatory. That's exactly why we couldn't open the market in a way to shut it down, to have only domestic companies in it. Unfortunately or fortunately, it is not possible and we went to a solution that general practice and in the world, so our companies will be able to trade abroad. Serbia's public utility has opened a company in Slovenia to trade electricity throughout Europe. It's just, it's a trend, it's a direction, and we can't drive in that direction a little left, a little right, a little bit going above the line, a little bit going below the line. We have to be on that level at any time. I repeat, we'll look at all the amendments. If there's any reason for us to improve the text, believe me, there's not a shred of vanity, we'll accept every amendment, although I'm being coughed up here, but believe me, that's the case. When it comes to the price, you mentioned, you did catch the thread of my thoughts well, when I was talking about the difference in prices from renewable sources and prices from conventional sources, but obviously you didn't hear me precisely. I was saying what the price is from the solar system, from the wind, and what the price is from Tent and Gerdap. Of course, I absolutely respect the fact that it's the objects that were built long ago and that, I say, they've already paid off. That's not why I said water and coal. That's why I mentioned specific objects. I also have to say that the price from coal, when it comes to new facilities, seems to me, when it comes to a new block in Kostolc, that some price we had from a high-quality study is about the base price of 36 comas, and in some other payment, in some projection of growth of up to 42 euros. You see, and from new facilities, that price is considerably cheaper when it comes to conventional sources. Finally, one question you have touched from different angles, you and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, issues of heat energy and the issue of arrangements for the level of local self-government, compensation for the construction land. For example, we as the Ministry and the Government do not prescribe the price of heat. This is what local self-government does, but based on a regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Ministry and it is a regulation that we define the parameters for determining the price of heat energy, or the maximum price, I will not say from up to, although we also define the lower one, because they must not be wrong down or down to eat the substance, but we define all the elements on which they literally insert the parameters and throw them out the price of heat energy. Perhaps it could also be a mechanism for making up construction land, although I don't think it's so easy to determine when the compensation for setting up city building land is too large, because the differences in the attractiveness of land, which still has to be considered, are too large between different local self-governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18971	Thank you. Since MP Dejan Nikolic is not there, the word has been given by MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18972	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ministry representatives, fellow MPs and MPs, we have already said a lot in the assembly room today on the energy bill proposal, so I will try not to repeat it. The first thing I'm going to say is that the SPS MPs will support the draft energy law. This is another step of the Assembly and another step taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is irrelevant, in creating a legislative framework for one of the pillars of energy policy and ensuring that all the objectives of the European Council, which identify the need for full energy security and efficiency, are met. Therefore, the proposal for the Energy Act should be seen as a possibility that energy security, which is definitely one of the major security problems of each country and the fact that it is an integral part of the national security of every nation, is reaching a favourable level for sustainable economic and social development, and also, with the necessity of ensuring diversification of energy sources. Today I notice a much broader political consensus on these topics compared to the past few years, and it makes me very happy. Even in the means of public information from this new government since 2012 and the government in 2014 there is a much smaller communication noise regarding the understanding of this third energy package of regulations and benefits it brings. Namely, what is important and what is important to understand? It is important that we accept this Energy Law as a proposal for a law that should finalise the already started process of energy sector reform in the domain of functionality and functioning of the internal market for all consumers, creating market liberalisation, i.e. the opening of the electricity and natural gas markets for all consumers, improving the rights of all customers, and especially energy-hazarded customers, then, ensuring the formation of the Energy Agency as a fully independent regulatory body and providing regional solidarity in the EU, guaranteeing that energy is supplied with greater competitiveness, stability and sustainability. With this bill, we need to address the problem of protecting competition and non-discriminatory behaviour, which are also the basis for achieving the national targets we have, which is the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and the consumption of biofuels in transport, and then, to curb the illegal oil market and oil derivatives. The application of the proposed legal framework actually provides an economic aspect, and the first and most significant impact of the energy sector on economic development through the physical openness of the economy, because only when the physical means for importing and exporting goods and services are available can we say that the economy is exposed to international competitiveness. In view of the size of the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia compared to the rest of the economy, we are coming to the conclusion that it is actually a very important involvement of the energy sector in international trade, in order to build adequate infrastructure, because only with such infrastructure can we enable investment in the most significant economic directions. However, we can now give countless details, but we have an important task ahead of us. First, Serbia must monitor the global and economic and energy situation. Serbia needs to know what's going on in the world today. What is also important is that there is definitely huge public pressure whenever there is a harmonisation of the rules with EU rules. The energy ministry headed by Aleksandar Antic is fighting well, leading a healthy energy policy across the Republic of Serbia and giving quality answers to global challenges. Through the adoption of such significant legal documents, it manages to regulate the energy sector. What is also important is that we put into the first plan many factors and, in fact, the main elements of this third energy package of regulations, which are the accounting and legal separation of electricity transmission from the production, distribution and trade of electricity, the establishment of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia as an entirely independent regulatory body, and what is very important, the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to promote the use of renewable energy sources, i.e. energy produced from renewable energy sources in the electricity sectors, heating, cooling, and in the transport sector as well, in order to achieve the goal of sharing renewable energy sources in the EU's total energy consumption of at least 20% by 2020. We are all aware that energy efficiency actually determines the level of employment of competitiveness in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Insufficiently efficient use of energy leads to a decrease in the employment rate, and an increase in the poverty rate, which is definitely a limiting factor in the process of Eurointegration for the Republic of Serbia, because one of the key criteria is that the employment rate in the Republic of Serbia is increasing, and the poverty rate decreases, of course, with a certain level of economic development, which can only be achieved by a multiple increase in the energy competitive and not discriminatory market. The fact is that a large number of employees in the Republic of Serbia are, in fact, employed in the energy sector and that is a large share of employment in our economy. The development of this sector, with regard to the promotion and development of the use of renewable energy sources, is also seen as creating the resources of new jobs in this way. Also, the opening of the energy sector for the foreign market, in general for international exchange, allows for increased employment and employment levels in sectors that are the interaction between the energy sector and the transport sector. Also, in order to open all these opportunities offered by this Energy Law proposal and to impute them into a legislative framework by 1 January 2015, i.e. to open the electricity market and the natural gas market for all our consumers, each consumer, i.e. the consumer, will receive a free choice of suppliers, including households from 1 January 2015, the SPS MPs will support these system reforms in the energy sector of the Republic of Serbia, through the implementation of the objectives of the use of this third energy package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18973	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic, and let Borislav Stefanovic prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18974	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, associates, colleagues and colleagues, today we have three draft laws and I will focus on only one law, which is the Law on parent books. I think that these amendments and additions to the Law on Parent Books deserve attention because it is a law where all of our citizens are particularly interested, because personal records are being kept on states, i.e. enrolments in parent books, so that they are very interested in doing so and in how and how it should be done, and that they simply take care of all this, as well as their relatives. These changes have been extorted and I think this law should endure some future changes, but probably when the time comes. The changes are in article 91 due to deadlines of five to seven years, because local self-governments have failed to do so so far, probably due to insufficient resources, which are primarily seen in human factors, probably the abundance and all that follows such a type of records, i.e. to do a second copy of the parent books that are kept via electronic means, as well as their storage. What's very important or 98%, by my estimate, is the facts of birth, marriage and death. I have submitted one amendment to Article 11 of the basic law, believing that not only someone from the social sector should do the job of the queen, but also for all other interests, so that we will see whether the government or the competent ministry accepts it, but I believe that the amendment is in place. I think this second amendment, I suggested it with my colleague Birmancevic, that I would simply have to be shortened. It is proposed to be eight days, and given that the 27th deadline of five years for the completion of the work for the second copy of the parent books and that this solution has been extorted. If these two amendments are accepted, I think the law will also be given in quality and will be improved. I think other changes should come to order, like the members of the 8th. The 9th and the 10th and simply not to be such a firm restriction that one parent should only be for one parent area. I think it should be more liberal and allow one parent and his deputy to cover more parent areas. That's it. I think these amendments will be accepted. We will vote, as well as the SNS, for these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18975	The word has the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18976	Mr. Chairman, distinguished members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know how we can successfully discuss the Energy Act when there are 434 members, which were delivered to this Assembly about two days ago, at the moment we discussed the budget until the morning hours. I don't know if there's any MPs here who could really do it in a dedicated, quality way to process this matter and this law that will otherwise be supported by the Democratic Party. We will support it because, in spite of such extensive material, in addition to certain shortcomings, this law represents to a large extent our alignment with European legal assets and is therefore acceptable to us. We will also support the Framework Agreement. We won't support the other bill proposals, as I don't understand how anyone can be a parent without being a chemist, or a physicist, or an athlete, but I really don't understand that, despite my best wishes. Maybe someone can explain it to me. In the proverbial atmosphere of the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, these five laws are now in front of us and I must remind myself that the previous Energy Act was passed in 2011 and was continued by the reform of this sector and was fully implemented by the second package of EU regulations in energy. The third package of EU energy regulations takes over our legislation by passing exactly this law. So, I don't understand, despite this good normative work, with certain shortcomings, how the government intends to take care in the future of all segments of our energy prosperity and perspective, and despite the good news from Kostolec, so I'm wondering how we're going to determine a clear personal subjective responsibility for people who made such failures during the spring floods and recently in Majdanpek. I believe it is in the interest of people who work in electricity, in the interest of the Ministry of Energy, in the interest of the government, but above all in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. How can we be sure of the energy future in Serbia if we have a government that is constantly in charge of citizens to finance the financial losses created by big losers in the segment of public enterprises, i.e. their directors. And of course there's this story about the EPS and the EMS, and there's a story about the directors of sectors that are very large and that have very big salaries. So, I wonder if there is any other way to reform this segment without political interference and without interference by the party in power. We've had a really big crisis and supply problems in eastern Serbia recently, and it's a good thing that it's been successfully remedied in the end, and we're giving credit to people from the EMS who, on the spot on the ground, risked their lives to train the energy system in eastern Serbia. We have tried to point to certain shortcomings that are not malicious, which serve above all, in the direction of improving and functioning of our system of ministers. We had a large number of power lines down there. We never found out who the orderer was, who the supplier was. How was the tender conducted? Who are the people who participated? Did these power lines have all the characteristics necessary to protect themselves from the elemental disasters? I really ask that rhetorically, without intending to bring anyone, in any way, into contact with something that is bad, but you as the head of that segment in the government might be able to, although I'm not saying you know certain information and share it with the Assembly. How can we be sure of the implementation of the provisions of this law when there is a manifestly unprofessional party leadership in the EPS and the ESM and when they coronated their incompetence with the Mayanpek crisis? How can we be sure of the functionality and scope of the energy law when it took us weeks, months to pump all the water out of the spears? How can we be sure that 434 members of this law will touch the essence when we know that there are very vague things about the assignment of work to pump water and mud, from spears. How can we be sure when we know that at this point everyone in Serbia is fully aware that the price of electricity has been increased after your political victory, and it was said otherwise in the pre-election campaign, and do we perhaps know that the price of electricity will be increased again? That's what citizens are interested in, as you know. I would also like to say that the energy law really, with the opposition's enormous efforts in this assembly, to try to find a point of fracture of our different political and programming views, has failed. That's why we're gonna support this law. That's how we end the energy law. Although I would like to take this opportunity to have the minister with us with these questions that I have asked, to share with us, and are there any problems in the provision of electricity to the citizens concerned? You know we had a tender where no domestic producer could participate. Can you tell us anything more, since there were certain controversys in the press, and today the citizens have called us to say that they claim, which I'm not saying that two average salaries are necessary for the separation of numbers, about 80,000 dinars, and that only an 11,600 dinar claim is made. It's a decision not made by the EPS. It's made by your ministry. Do you, Minister, confirm this, and could this somehow have been done cheaper? There, that's my question. Just don't hold every number strictly. We got the information from the citizens. For me, these amounts are really too high, so just please, since you know that there are a lot of families in Serbia that have been living within a single household for many generations, this would indeed be an excessive blow for them. The amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction is being made two weeks after the last decision in the Serbian Parliament, which is totally amazing. We have warned before that it is better to pass a uniform regulation again than to come to the Assembly just two weeks after you have already passed that law here. A mistake was stolen from which certain foreign partners pointed out to you, and that mistake concerns that you forgot to release the fees, the ones that will build warehouses and production facilities, construction land fees. And now you remember that, so you brought it in. And by the way, we have some very interesting things here. There is serious concern that one, in this case, of the Energy Act, I will return to it, in a text proposed by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, could undo the positive shifts made by the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. So these two laws are connected. In fact, the project that the USAID has confirmed that for better business conditions, the procedure could be less than it is now under the law, as well as the number of days needed to obtain a valid permit and the right to investor security would be compromised. Energy insists on an act of approval to join a network that the Planning and Construction Act does not foresee. You've explained it today, I was here in the hallway when you gave your statement, and it makes sense to me what you said. My only regret is that there is an obvious, apparent discrepancy between the two draft laws that the same government has submitted. Which may lead to an ominous conclusion that you in the Government cannot agree with each other or that the Committee on Legislatives is not working in the Government. How is it possible that two legislative proposals on, I'm not going to say the same, but to a similar area, in a different way, treat deadlines? In which they amend the Law on Planning and Construction, they give shorter deadlines and the Energy Act for longer. You've explained that you're standing by that the waist showed here, gave the right word, that it's better to get a previous permit, etc. I understand that, I do. Only you can explain to us why this was done and why it caused the disdain of interested foreign investors in this area? What do you mean to remove it, when it's obvious that people are looking to have an earlier possibility with short deadlines? You said there was an opportunity for you to cut deadlines internally, to cut them short. We have laws here today. Why don't we change these things right now, and through the amendment process and everything else, so, okay, through the amendment process, so we don't waste time here. So my criticism in this regard goes only in this direction, to shorten the deadlines, since everyone was up to it, and that these shortened deadlines also function within the energy law. Nothing else. And, of course, my political question is -- why is this happening, and why are you coming two weeks later with the law, although proposed by a respected fellow Member, and not by a minister in the government? The minister will not pass his law after two weeks, but should do so by a parliamentary group, not wanting to reduce anyone's competence, please. I'm talking about the political courage of those who talk about political cowards. Why doesn't the minister come to defend the law that was here for two weeks when we told her it wasn't good, when we told her it couldn't work like this and that it should be changed in a certain way, which is now definitely confirmed, through most of the Parliament. Well done, dear fellow Members of the Assembly, but where is the government's representative to face his yet another misjudgement? With a lack of coordination? With the parliament's majority, which must be constantly as in Minister Selakovic's case, corrects the executive's mistakes. When the executives finally confirm what Mr. Becic is up to, he knows what I'm talking about, that we're going to the convention system of uniting all branches of government in the Assembly, so we can tell them that they can't manage us like they're doing right now? I know, some people don't understand, but Mr. Becic knows exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18977	I don't understand anything, but go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18978	Thank you for that. So that's the essence of my questions, and I'm going to ask the ministers to do everything you can at the end of the day, to finish the exposure, to do everything in your power, competence, influence, to influence the EMS not to build a power line in Vinci that is harmful, as research shows, to the citizens of Vinci. It goes above the nursery, above the school, people are scared, bitter and do something if you can through the form of your political pressure on the SNS. I know that the power of your pressure is enormous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18979	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Babic. Replica, or what? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18980	Many questions have been asked about those about the increase in electricity. I do not live in a country where the government of Aleksandra Vukic and the government in which the SNS participate has increased the price of electricity and citizens know it. It devalues all that still some things that have been said. What really bothers me is that when the government proposes a bill and referred it to the National Assembly procedure, then the National Assembly by the former regime and the MPs of the former regime was presented as a flow water heater. When the laws are proposed by the Messengers of the people, then it is said, "Why didn't the government propose?" I would only ask you, agree once what you want, to propose the laws of the Government, or to propose the laws of the MPs? Legally, legitimately, according to the Constitution, by law and by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly can be both Government and People's MPs. In all of this I really don't see anything wrong, but what's good with the Law on Planning and Construction, I don't know if Mr. Stefanovic knows it, and I'd like to introduce him to it now and get support and positive comments on the law. A building permit has been issued following new planning and construction in five days. A building permit has been issued for five working days and I think it is a success and a more favourable investment climate. We talked a lot about EMS. It would take me more time to discuss their successes, the business successes they've achieved, but what we haven't talked about. Dalkovod Vinca, as well as the trafo station in Block 32, were made according to the project documentation which was inherited and about the permits that were inherited in the time when Mr Stefanovic's party cheered and dressed both Belgrade and Serbia, and we are left to do in the continuity of all of this to improve the electricity system in the state, and not now that those who put the cables where they were placed, plotted that trafostation in Block 32 and placed it in the place where they set it up, now whine and say, and why are they building there?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18981	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18982	Just one more sentence, please, while we're at those power lines. You had a very difficult session, I'm sure Mr. Stefanovic remembers that session when we talked about amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, which targeted and referred to just those who stole the diagonals of the power lines. It's the ones who attacked the railroad, the ones that are those petty thefts that are much more severely sanctioned by these amendments and additions to the law. We didn't get support. We didn't get an agreement. Then you didn't worry about the power lines that were now down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18983	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18984	Based on what you said, I didn't know that the power lines in Serbia were built, all the power lines have been built over the past two years. If so, another support and another positive thing for the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18985	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18986	Of course not all the power lines in Serbia have been built in the last two years. Unfortunately, some of them are a few decades old. In objective terms, I have to defend myself here and justify anyone else to underline the enormous efforts that "Electropriority of Serbia" and "Electro Network of Serbia" have done in normalising the electricity supply of Serbian citizens and it seems to me that we are not at all objective when we evaluate the activities of our public enterprises and that we are not informed at all about what is going on in the countries in the environment, or even in some of the most developed countries in the world. We had a situation that in the U.S. a few months ago due to weather conditions that entire cities, cities were without electricity for a few weeks. We even had a situation, since I had to look at those data, where the settlements were two months without electricity. During the storm and catastrophic meteorological events that hit eastern Serbia, similar problems were also in the region. In Slovenia, there were drastic problems and several weeks of settlement without electricity. Problems in Austria. The city of Budapest was for a time without electricity. Troubles are huge in Prague. Just please be realistic. What's more, I'm willing to come out here today, and with the assessment that our public companies, together with the companies they're working with, have managed to remove these failures far faster than anywhere else because our businesses, our people, work day and night, not taking into account the weather conditions, and I often think that sometimes we should criticise them because our workers are sometimes exposed to unnecessary risks to solve the problem and to solve this wider social factor, because simply, we are forced by the general public, looking at this broader picture and the need to solve the problem, we do it at any cost. I repeat, full respect for all employees of Elektroprivred, Elektro Networks, a bunch of companies from Serbia, Republika Srpska, BiH that have come to our aid. We've had several hundred of the highest quality installers from all over the region who've worked to remove the fall of several power lines that we've had around Majdanpek. We had a situation in eastern Serbia where there were really huge problems because of the huge ice wave, which was specific and followed by the storm wind. Some of these problems will be long-term and not those on power plants. We have a broken forest, an orchard of dozens and hundreds of hectares in Svrljag, Književci, Boljevac. We had 759 pillars of wooden, concrete, new and old in the region. There was a completely incredible meteorological and weather situation where everything, people, froze and everything that froze eventually broke. I cannot accept the assessment of non-professional party leadership in public enterprises because public enterprises are doing well and I am absolutely behind the work of our public enterprises as a minister. You have here mentioned "Electro-price of Serbia" and "Electro-Network of Serbia". I stand behind the Transnaft, the "Serbiagas". We're all working on a serious team in the energy sector that's trying to keep the country's energy situation under control. Believe me, all the grades get to me when, as someone who is at the head of the resort along with these people, I know how responsible all these companies and their management were and at the height of the task at the most difficult time when we created an energy balance of the country that had a huge energy problem and we managed to solve all this and keep it under control. It takes great expertise and great management potential. That no one gets angry, but not all directors of public enterprises in the energy sector need to be electric engineers, sometimes they need to be good managers, get me a job at the company, and they need to find quality engineers to do their job. I really believe we have one such situation in public enterprises. I have to mention the water pump in Colubara. The first estimates after the floods by the World Bank and other reference institutions were that for Little Lake, for Great Black, we would be able to pump water until October 1st, and for this Great Lake, i.e. the Tamnava - Western Field, it would take a minimum of time to pump water for a year to a year and a half. We started the coal exploitation on August 10th, or two months before the first deadline we were given, and by pumping water and producing coal on the Spear of the Great Black minimum five months before that first deadline we were given. So behind all this there really is one huge professional work. In order to start pumping water, we had to do several serious studies, starting with the very geology of a new mine that was severely damaged in the flood wave, through studies on the quality of that water, about environmental impact, the assessment of the Institute of Water Management "Jaroslav Černi", the project of recovery of the surface spear, the assessment of the necessary investments for the needs of mining machinery on the surface spears of Tamnava - the Western field and the Great Black. These are three books that seem to me bigger than the budget. We also had to negotiate with international institutions. The World Bank's funding, and it's tied us to an environmental impact assessment. We had to negotiate with the Danube Commission. Well, guys, we're not dislocated here. We had to translate that water from the dig into the Colubary, where it goes to the Sava, then to the Danube, then the Black Sea. So, the whole Black Sea plum. We had to negotiate with the Danube Commission. Guys, we had to prove in a very serious scientific way that by pumping that water, it wouldn't affect the quality of the environment. The water passes by Belgrade's water springs. So we had to do it very seriously, to get the consent to start with. I have to say, there's a serious process behind it, a serious scientific methodology and a scientific approach to get permission at all. When it comes to tenders, I really don't have those elements, it's a radio EPS along with "Coluber". What I have to say is, the most important thing for me today is coal, and all the other questions are for public companies that conduct tenders. I repeat, we have 10,000 tons of coal from today. That when translated into electricity, it is 250,000 euros a day. I think that's the most important thing for this country. The separation of numbers. The Ministry of Mining and Energy has absolutely nothing to do with any financial elements, fees, fees incurred by the JP "Electroprivred Serbia". They make decisions on this, and the second-degree body is their Energy Agency, which gives them the right to appeal. Problem counted by the EBRD. There's a public call. I must say right now, I am absolutely not happy with the fact that the terms of the tender are such and that this scale is raised so high, I believe no one in the government, and knowing the prime minister, he is least happy about all these conditions. But unfortunately, these are the parameters we always have a problem with when we have funding from international financial institutions. It's just, unfortunately, we don't have the money to finance it ourselves. Since we don't have the money to finance ourselves, we're obliged to secure funding. When we secure funding from international institutions, the tenders are conducted in accordance with their procedures. I always wonder if it's better for us to take loans from those institutions that are more favourable objective, because they're the cheapest assets, and then we raise the scale high, or maybe it'd be better if we took some commercial credit with normal interest rates, so we dictate terms? But, unfortunately, it's always overrun – let's provide the cheapest money with the biggest grace period and the longest repayment deadline, but it's always those funds and, as you know, they always impose those elements on us and we always fight for our companies' participation. We have the same things when we work with the Chinese. We had the same thing on the bridge. We have the same thing in Kostolic. So we're always fighting – let's get our companies in. I hope we can succeed in this process here, too. Since, I repeat, the tender is open until March of the month and there's room for questions, there's room to correct the documentation, I will personally advocate it. I really tried to answer all your questions. If I skipped something, feel free to remind me. As for the number of members of the law, I can't answer that. The law is as big as it is. I also have to say that this law was no secret at all, it was all the time on the Ministry's website. All the plans, all the changes to the drafts, we updated every change, and it has since November, when counterpart Mihajlovic first started making the law, that is, in November he started his first public debate, and the bill went far earlier. So he's been in public debate for 13-14 months. Finally, now this is not a matter of boasting, but it really is, nor is it just for me to praise, 2014 is the first and only year after a long series of years in which there has been no increase in electricity prices. I think it's one fact and one circumstance that's good. All these previous years have been increased, except for 2014. I'm telling you this completely responsible, and I know you know it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18987	I thank Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr. Stefanovic and Mr. Toskovic not to go through the O.R. The word is Katarina Rakic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18988	I'll be brief, since I've been called the legislator of this law. First of all, I would like to say that I am glad to hear that the previous speaker has said very loudly that he will not support the amendments to these laws which, in the coming period, will certainly show what they mean for the citizens of Serbia. I'd like them to really stay consistent this time, unlike the last time they said they'd support amendments to the Law of Legalization, so they didn't. Stay consistent this time, and time will show what they will mean for Serbian citizens. I absolutely don't see what the problem is for us as MPs to pass the law. It's our right and it's our duty. It is our obligation to make laws and to implement them and to act every time, not to act like you did in the previous period, when you had the law and had 700,000 illegal objects, and you didn't react at any time to any change. We will react at any moment when anyone points to a good change. You didn't react even when a million and a half illegal objects appeared, and of course you couldn't react because the laws on urbanism were written to you by orthopaedics. Since you had an objection that the parents couldn't be physicists, of course the constitutional courts knocked you down because orthopedics wrote you laws on urbanism.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18989	Thank you, Miss Rakic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18990	Thank you. Comments on the link between the group of citizens who have their views and opinions and have the right to address various things, the ministry's response and the comment given by the president of the parliamentary group that this is all because DS did it all. So it's nothing as good as a good excuse. I'm just looking forward to when there's going to be something in this room other than a good excuse. All who have received responsibility and tasks for managing the DS are excused, and excuses are used only by those who, a) or do not know; b) or are incompetent; c) or do not understand that they are not opposition or government. In the ancient speeches from which we learn who we want to speak here, there was a sentence in which one of the speakers finished all of his speeches about how Cartagena should be warned. Here's the communication strategy that DS lies, slanders, spits, whatever they want, hits them, doesn't regret it, because they're guilty of everything. It's a legitimate communication strategy, and it shows inferiority. It shows a very serious inferiority for responsibility and for the enormous support, legitimate and legal that exists. So when it is said that DS is guilty, or responsible for the power line, then it is understood that nothing can be touched there now. It's interesting because for other things and other topics for which an excuse is also sought in what was DS, it's not a problem to change. I think that's a little ambitious and that you like us very much just ashamed to tell us freely, you're the government, we're the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18991	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18992	Well, I wouldn't agree if the SNS had a destructive policy towards anyone. We want to build our country, we want to build institutions, we want to build a system, it's hard to build something from the ground up, when something's broken down, I mean public finances, that's what I mean by economy, that's where I think about a lot of segments of our society. We have never, never been destructive to anyone, nor have we received such threats to political opponents. You will remember the threats and the Ukrainian scenario and the Bosnian scenario, only if the democratic option does not go through in the elections as if it has the only exclusive right to lead this country. The Democratic Party was destroyed by irresponsible policies, irresponsible people who implemented that policy through privatisations that were very controversial, looting, through many other things. It was not destroyed by the Democratic Party by the Serbian Progressive Party in a democratic way in the elections and in the polls. What you can't do is look in the mirror and admit to yourself some of the things you've done. Is that so hard? All the project documentation, all the licenses for the Vinca power line were done at the time when our country, this city's electricity sector ran all the DS and you did it, we continued doing the work. But when you say you're not taking responsibility, that we've taken responsibility for Mrs. Komic, all the research is done, all the measurements are done, and where you've allowed the power lines to be done, where these facilities are, we didn't want those objects to be destroyed, but the level of the power lines was raised, so that such radiation wasn't reduced to a minimum, but not at all. Now, it's taking responsibility and it's something that corrects the mistakes of the past. Is it hard to get up and say, yes, we designed it, we did it, or is it easier to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18993	Mr. Granny, I can't allow any further replica. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18994	It's a replica for the presentation that the head of the parliamentary group shared with us. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We have a problem with the lack of general benefit that could arise in this room because in a legitimate and legal way you choose to communicate good excuses, but it shows that you have no awareness of how much responsibility you have and how much authority you have in the country. That's not good for anybody. I don't mind if you continue, nor can I have, it is your will, your right, especially if it comes to the good answer of those who vote, who are your support, to continue communication – these Democrats blame everything. It's like that bitter joke about World War II being blamed by Jews and cyclists, and then these guys are asking, and what are the cyclists doing? We're here for you to continue this communication, but it's lacking for the dialogue that needs to be built here. We are involved in the dialogue, both of us and you. I don't mean party me and you, or me and you, but whoever has the obligation to do public work and the way we've now shared information about a power line in Vinci is completely different from the style of communication of the previous. It's not about running out of responsibility, it's not about lack of mirror, it's about surging with the position we're in with our position, the opposition alone and we're going to do our part constitutionally and legally. I ask you, with our help, to be single with the position of authority you have, and then we will understand that when I mention Alexander that it is good for Alexander and for you, and not to be an object - don't, not even the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18995	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18996	I'm glad Mrs. Comic has now detected her responsibility. The responsibility of DS when designing power lines in Vinca and allowing illegal buildings to be built on the track of the power line, as well as for the design of trafostations in Block 32. Why is that good? For two things. One thing, some things must have continuity. You know, there's a lot of that, and now we're going to go to the right side, so somebody's going to come tomorrow, and they're going to go to the left. And right, left, up, down, we're in place. Why the problem is that something that's been designed and designed so that we don't now build in that part. Respecting all the laws, all the principles, raising the price, or raising the level of the power lines so that people living in illegal buildings, which were built by the time you led the city of Belgrade and allowed them to do so, would be safe. But it's irresponsible, Mrs. Comic, irresponsible to support anything in those people you put in that position, giving them some kind of support to build a power line that poisons people in Vinci, and not to say we designed it because we had good intentions. We gave all these permits because we had good intentions. These people who do it now have a good will, because they want to build all of it, and they want you to be safe. No, you only count with the support number, now it's going to be some voices, give them a pat on the shoulder, that's what some terrible and disgusting advances do. Now, that's irresponsible and there are enough mirrors, but there's not enough of your will to look at yourself in that mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18997	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18998	It would be really inappropriate if we, who represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia here, couldn't, therefore, want to respond to these findings especially about these confusing communication strategies, because we are probably in trouble with the communication strategy. You know how, your finding that we have a strategy to communicate bad excuses or good excuses, I've seen such a successful communication strategy in DS for one 10 years, convincing 10 years and a good excuse strategy for the 1990s. As much as it was relatively true, as it is now true that even these messages we send that once you were responsible for something, and when I say you, I don't think the quad of a person is anything, it really is. You don't think anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be reluctant to say that in any way, because when you enter the system and see what you may not have seen outside the executive authority, then with full right we can call on some bad results of previous governments. I think it is a communication strategy and that this has shown convincingly this week's debate in parliament, a strategy of good results, early good results and a projection of even better results and a strategy of determination in implementing reforms. It's our communication strategy. About the confusing messages, I can only say that maybe some of the confusing messages come from your MP group. Recently, the head of your parliamentary group said that the party's policy remains the same, but that it is bad for citizens to recognize DS for a troubled period and a difficult period, and they do not remember the good, period of government of your party, while you remain in the same positions at the same time. Then what are you offering? These are confusing messages and these are bad communication strategies and that you should not be perceived, as the head of the parliamentary group also said, as someone who is only against Vukic, but that you have a clear political message. I agree. Each party should have a clear political message. I think you have confusing political messages. You can criticise the government and you should criticise the government, but our messages are, I think, perfectly clear to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u18999	Thank you. Mrs. Comic, you called in to replicate the minister? I'd rather go back to the law debate, but if you insist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19000	Thank you. I'd like to go back to the debate, too, but this is part of the debate, to clear up the misunderstanding. I do not dispute at all the clarity of the message and the ruling majority and government of those who support it. The communication strategy addresses only its electoral body and its support is legitimate, but I would be pleasantly surprised that any member or member of the government, any of the coalition parties, should be part of it and say he understands and assesses the DS message positively, and that would mean that you would vote for DS, which would be quite amazing, although man never knows it. It is not just about the legitimacy of one communication strategy and your right to assess such or such confusion or clarity of the DS message. It's a kind of dialogue that that kind of communication then creates. You rightfully stated that you heard that the government in which the DS was part of the coalition had excuses. That's when you thought it wasn't good, but now we're doing the same thing. That's what this is about. I'm not saying it was good back then, or that it was good now. I am for a dialogue on the context in which we are now and no one happier than me that the government, at least in the sector where you are, really shows the result. It is perfectly natural for me to say what they think about your work in European institutions, what they say and what I have witnessed, that I am sure that what you say will be done by March and by the end of April will be done. I welcomed it at the beginning of the debate. It's a change of communication that I'm trying to make, to be a change that I stand for, which is that everyone is using the address to those they're asking for support, but that we're not losing sight of all of us. That's all. We don't have any controversy here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19001	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19002	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 107th and a dignity of Parliament. Why? Because here, in a kind of offensive way, we complain that we're looking for excuses to avoid responsibility. Not that we're not doing it, but here's exactly when it's mentioned in Vinci, we solve that problem. If they'd stayed in power, you'd never have gotten rid of them. I'd really like to ask you to respond to that. We're just taking that kind of responsibility to solve someone's problem. It's really not something like this that's correct to complain and put on, because it has nothing to do with the truth. We solve this problem based on something they've designed and based on what they've adopted as some rule of law, but we simply have to respect it and we want these people to meet. If they had stayed in power, it would never have been solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19003	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I can't go into the replica section spoken here in the National Assembly and the explanations about these replicas. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) The word has Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. This closes the circle of replicas, and then has the word Marijana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19004	I agree, I'll take it very briefly, but don't let us stay out of sight or avoid any kind of discussion. Yes, we are part of the government, this government exists for eight months, and with the previous two years and eight months, and not one moment really, I have no intention of saying that this government met with an economic situation in the country that, to extend, could directly lead Serbia into the Greek scenario. That's true. We stopped it from trying to prevent and make a reform turn. The mentioned are floods, natural disasters that have hit Serbia for the last few decades, and I think it was one of the most difficult natural disasters and we helped the affected areas. We built and restored houses. I think already now of these funds, which we had, that almost all the houses were finished and in a completely transparent way, clearly. We were very up-to-date to mobilise all foreign donors from both the EU and bilateral donations to provide significant assistance. I think that in Serbia after two major natural disasters, those from May and this recently in eastern Serbia, very few users have no electricity at all. Look at the situation in other countries, which means that this government has managed to keep many of the challenges it has faced under control. Is everything ideal? It's not. Is it easy for us to reverse the trend that existed, an economic, negative trend to recover the economy, to put public finances in order and to create conditions for sustainable economic growth, I don't think that's easy. I think citizens understand that it's not easy and I think they appreciate and value what this government is doing very transparently and operationally. We expect support from the opposition for that. So, of course, where you disagree, you disagree. It is not a problem when it poses a problem for the opposition to criticise, but this political manner of criticizing everything and saying – no, you inherited the perfect economic situation and now you are just not capable enough to continue it, it is not true. Without wanting to engage further in the debate, I would just like to tell you that even in the domain of European integration, for which you have started them and to say, declaredly, they have always been for European integration and I agree with that, but unfortunately, the fundamental institutional reform turns that should have been in those seven, eight years, and there have been more, to begin and not to begin. So it was a pro-European policy and a story, very often ideologically colored, full of Eurofanatism, and in the field and in practice and in institutions we didn't do much. So I'm not denying that nothing's done, it's done. That it was done as much as it could, it didn't. And there weren't any results we could now say that we inherited the ideal condition, so now we're making further improvements. Therefore, I ask you, when we talk about the communication strategy and who it talks to, we address the citizens of Serbia. You are the opposition and you address the citizens of Serbia. We are both citizens of Serbia and should have the same interests, at least in terms of improving what is most important for our people, and that is economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19005	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I asked Mr. Pavicevic to come back on the subject, but it's not worth it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19006	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Antiću, respected Minister Joksimovic, respected co-workers from the ministry and from the Office for European Integration, Mrs Ilic, Mr Becic, you have again broken the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines the chairman of the National Assembly to worry about order at the National Assembly's session. Dear gentlemen, the order of the National Assembly means that we adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that when a guest, and Mrs Joksimovic is here today, a guest, or some MP gets the right to the Republic, that the replica cannot last more than two minutes, gentlemen. I like to listen to Mrs Joksimovic, I have no objection in that sense, but I have an objection that when a member or a member of the government gets the right to reply, instead of talking for two minutes, it would be respecting the Rules of Procedure's words, Mr. Becic for almost four minutes. Here, Mrs Joksimovic can confirm here that it really happened. Dear gentlemen, what do I conclude then? Then I don't just conclude that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, but I conclude that this parliamentary majority here and you, Mr. Becic, as chairman, put in one, let me say, a humble attitude towards the executive authority. You, Mr. Becic, here, double the time past the Rules of Procedure, and to the MPs who adhere to the Rules of Procedure, and I am one of them, you interrupt them in the middle of a speech...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19007	Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: And you interrupted me again, Mr. Becic.) ) Otherwise, I can't give you information that will convince you that you're wrong about what you're saying. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Two minutes have expired, I have not finished the explanation of Mr Bečić, please give me four minutes as Mrs Joksimovic had. I've been looking for four minutes for this breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Joksimovic, do you agree? Mr. Pavicevic, allow me. (Jadranka Joksimovic, from the place: absolutely. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mrs Joksimovic agrees. Mr. Granny, do you agree? ) (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Just to respect the law. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Everyone here is in agreement, four minutes I want to get the right here. ) Mr Pavicevic, if you'd let me say so, I'd say Mrs Joksimovic didn't get the replica. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes, she won. She was given as a member of the government, an authorised representative of the government. Allow me, I've been listening to you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: You said to Mr. Becic, so here we round up the cycle of replicas, we all heard you sir. This is the usurp of the institution, Mr. Becic. I can explain what that means. ) Mr Pavicevic, does a government member have the right to speak without restrictions according to the Rules of Procedure? There is. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Replica two minutes all. ) Mrs Joksimovic was not given a replica, I just said by giving the word... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Ask her, Mrs Joksimovic, please... Mr. Pavicevic, allow me, you're a professor, you're a respectable man, let me, what you're doing right now, you're throwing it out of the bench, it's not right... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It's like when Mr. Babic says... ) Mr. Pavicevic, I beg you, do you want to get a warning now? You don't want to be safe. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I want to get my right for two minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic. You've denied me this. ) Mr Pavicevic, I have just said I have just given you an explanation that Mrs Joksimovic has not received a replica. I said only at the end, after Mrs Joksimovic's announcement we return, we have closed the circle of replicas that Mr Babic, Mrs Comic, had had. Mrs. Komic has the right to speak, we have closed the circle of replicas, she received the word of Mrs. Joksimovic, and thus we are going again in order of the MPs... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Uzurpacija. )......................................................................................................... And I didn't say that she got Mrs. Joksimovic's right to reply, because she has no reason to gain the right to replica because she, as a member of the government, speaks, has unlimited time. You don't understand that, Mr. Pavicevic, all you know is that you're throwing yourself out of the bench, acting like you're acting and it's not right. Please, in accordance with the civilised debate in the National Assembly, you are a respected man professor, I don't think this is your nature and please don't do that. Thank you. Here's to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Zoran Babic. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. I gave an explanation. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Obligatory. I must say, thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19009	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate your desire to lead this session, even though you are under constant pressure and threaten to lead in one normal flow, one normal spirit. However, what I cannot go beyond, which is whether this is the wish of the previous speaker to humiliate others and to view the National Assembly in such a way, but what has been said is really and irritable and requires an appropriate answer, which is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is humiliating the National Assembly. With what? Was there more ministers in the National Assembly during the election of the Budget Law or the Budget Rebalancing Act than there were MPs of the former regime? Is it a humiliation that he was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia here when the amendment promoters were in the restaurant? Suddenly they got some panic attack and the attack lacked a desire with communication and for dialogue. I'll tell you, Mr. Chairman, what humiliation is. Humiliation is when, as Zoran Zivkovic did, when all the MPs, when citizens of Serbia, call you "stom". Humiliation is when Dragan Sutanovac, as he did a few days ago, calls you all the MPs, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia "a scum". It is a humiliation of the National Assembly, and what the Government does, it does with the Constitution and the law which is guaranteed to guide laws in the procedure, draft laws in the procedure, to come here, to defend these laws, to give appropriate answers, to refuse or accept amendments, to communicate and that is what they do and to do for themselves in the future. The fact that you don't agree with those laws, which you don't like reform policy, you have to ask yourself that question in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19010	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Joksimovic, dear Mr Antiću, honored guests from the ministries and the Office for European Integration, there is Mrs Ilic, as I understand it, Mr Becic, once again you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this time a member of the 103rd, who defines the question of violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In two ways you did it, Mr. Becic. First, you made it possible for Mr. Babic to speak again longer than he had right under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, like all MPs, had the right to speak now for two minutes, and Mr. Babic, here I am now measuring, talking for two minutes and 16 seconds. Mr. Becic, when I get the right to react to the Rules of Procedure or to a replica, you warn me that my time is up for a minute and 55 seconds. I'm just about to spend two full minutes. Just before you shut me down for a minute and 52, Mr. Becic, it's a kind of violation, Mr. Becic. Another type of offense, Mr. Babic reported here after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Instead of explaining how the Rules of Procedure was injured, Mr. Babic replicated my speech when I tried to explain why you had previously injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic. I could say that the Prime Minister humiliated the Assembly, that he became a usurper by mentioning some of the honors of gentlemen, but I didn't do it, and Mr. Babic did, and you violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19012	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You have shut me down again. I was just about to run out of time. I'd like to give you a heads-up that will convince you that's not exactly what you're saying. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Two minutes and 16 seconds. Allow me, Mr. Pavicevic. Whoever was talking today, and in the future, you know... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: I read your thoughts, sir.) ) Allow Mr. Pavicevic to say something to me once. Don't, you'll see you didn't read it right. And here I am now giving notice to all the Members of the People that I will warn everyone for two minutes, but I am not automatically asking someone to stand in the same second for those two minutes. So, feel free to always finish your sentence and I'll always let you finish your sentence for those two minutes, I'll warn you that time is up, then. Is that two minutes and 10 seconds, five seconds, 16 seconds, no problem at all. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have no right for two minutes. ) Mr Pavicevic, here I am now making a promise, you will always be warned for two minutes and feel free to finish your sentence, however long it takes. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Come on, I'll check it out. ) So other MPs today had the opportunity to see as well as Mr Bozovic, so don't always have the impression that the chairman has something against you. I respect you very much as a man and as a professor, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19013	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, as well as citizens who are following the public's work today's agenda brings together a debate on five draft laws, but I will base my presentation mainly on the Energy Act. When the Energy Act was adopted in 2004, the process of reforming the energy sector was launched with the aim of ensuring conditions for the development and efficient operation of all entities carrying out energy activities according to the commercial principles, as well as the harmonisation of this law with principles, EU regulations. It is important to say that the adoption of the third energy package will bring about major changes in terms of reform in general, and its implementation will condition a series of changes that our legislation will have to bring into line with European legislation. This law lays down standards regarding an organised market, i.e. conditions for the establishment and functioning of the electricity market. Where the question is raised by the Agency for Energy, it is a requirement to ensure an enhanced role of the Agency through the extension of competence and strengthening of functional and financial independence, which again requires further increase in the personnel capacity of the Agency itself. I will not speak of the reasons for the adoption of this law for the simple reason why the minister explained it in his opening statement, and it was heard today by fellow MPs. Asking why we are passing the law by emergency procedure, I would say that Serbia took the obligation in 2011 to install the directives from the third energy package into its legislative system as of 1 January 2015, as well as to fully open the electricity and natural gas market, so that all customers including households would have the right to free choice of suppliers. As regards the analysis of the effects, which and how the solutions on this law will affect, the solutions contained in the Energy Act, which we are talking about today, will have an impact on the buyer, I mean the final buyer in the household category, who can freely choose their supplier on the electricity market, have the right to change the supplier free of charge, then at any moment they can be informed of the change in the price of their own consumption, thus having a certain rationalisation of their own consumption and even the right to the status of the energy-hazarded electricity buyer. Then, this law has a major impact on energy entities which are required to provide conditions for secure, reliable and continuous supply of electricity, property is established on networks that are good for general interest under the Public Property Act. Also, this law has a major impact on investors. The proposed solutions largely specify administrative procedures, creating conditions for investing in energy-based buildings using renewable energy sources. As for natural persons, it allows natural persons to acquire the status of a privileged producer in installed power plants up to 30 kilowatts. There will be conditions for more power plants and renewable energy sources in the electricity system. This will also lead to new jobs in the area of production and technical services, especially significantly in less developed areas where there are significant renewable energy potentials. Then, this law has a major impact on the Energy Agency, which introduces more significant powers and responsibilities with new solutions. It has an impact on the state authorities for the purpose of preparing regulations, which will initiate amendments to individual provisions of the Law on Energy, the Law on Government, the Law on Ministry, the Law on Public Enterprises, and provisions on the separation of system operators, the system certification provisions, as well as public service provisions. Then, it also has a major impact on the authorities of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. Is the law supporting the creation of new operators on the market and the implementation of a good market economy? Well, certainly the proposed legislative solutions have a positive effect in terms of increasing the number of energy operators in the electricity and natural gas market, leading to greater competition and a more successful functioning of the market. Did the interested parties have a chance to say their own? Well, sure. On 17 December 2013, the Committee on Business and Finance made a decision on the implementation of the public debate, and after that debate, all the objections arrived and we believe that the working group accepted all these objections, and yet in order to improve the text of the law itself. The measures to be taken to achieve what is planned by law-making - expert seminars on promoting the use of renewable energy sources will be organised, legal solutions in EU and regional countries will be analysed, in regular communication with parties in the process, and with investors in this area, the shortcomings and certain administrative barriers are recognised. What I just want to say experiencedly, and how important it is for us to deal with these renewable energy sources, firstly, is that in my city, in particular, which I come from, in Chačka, if the budget is three billion and 100 million dinars and if the town of Cachak at an annual level amounts to 461 million dinars, out of which only 340 million are for heating, 55 million for street lighting, basic schools 12 million and 750 thousand, secondary schools 30 million, 15 million for preschool institutions, totalling 461 million and you will agree with me that this is really one big number and that we need maximum attention to focus on finding the chance that in another alternative way we are currently supplying electricity. I'd also say the Moravia County owns a really large energy capacity. Already in 1989, a catastrian plan was presented about 70 locations, especially in rural areas, such as Ivanica, where there were some cadastrian over 70 locations for the construction of mini hydrocentrals and already some permits have been issued and we think that the construction has just begun, and as far as the city of Čačka and its potentials are concerned, there is a study that clearly speaks, which was done by Prof. Sasa Milenić of the Mining and Geological Faculty, which says that the Maltene town of Cačak lies on geothermal springs whose water temperature is about 15 degrees. The town of Čačak has a great advantage in its territory of three spas – Ovčar Banja, Trepču Banja and Slatinska Banja. We sincerely believe that by strengthening these capacities and strengthening these renewable energy sources, attracting new investments will lead to the city's capacity to fill and strengthen tourism itself. We see here a great opportunity to connect through these renewable energy sources, to connect electricity production, and then to make certain shifts both in the area of health and tourism. Believe that there was a particular number of investors coming to our city, but for example in the last 15 years there has been no serious investment. I must stress that it would be good if we had knowledge and a resolution minister if he had information that the town of Cachak has such potentials, that it wouldn't be a bad idea to think about some serious investment at least in the future on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19014	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19015	Thank you. Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, what I wanted to say at the very beginning, and as far as the Energy Act is concerned, is that, in addition to having a legal solution in several ways better than this existing one, and besides this law, the hand-to-heart law, is really well prepared, what concerns us with all the laws, and over 95% of these situations, is that he enters the procedure as an emergency procedure. Once again, it is transparency that has become somehow a mania of the ruling majority, so this lack of transparency is reflected in the fact that citizens cannot assess in time the effects of legal solutions will be for their lives in the coming year. That's what we had with both the budget and a lot of other laws. What we are voting for has stated, but one more thing is your hand, that you had the courage to come personally and to propose and explain this legal solution, unlike Minister Zorana Mihajlović, who somehow hid behind 122 MPs of the SNS, so it was not just a few weeks after the adoption of the amendments and the additions I found fit to take responsibility again and to boldly propose new changes and complements when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction. Just one more sentence, Mr. Antić, if you really have the will, and I think it is a little bit necessary, in connection with this situation that the City of Belgrade has in Vinci, to personally tackle this problem, and to personally influence your authority with the ESM, which is when it comes to the construction of a power line, which called for an urban plan from 1987 and a project, where not only houses exist there today, not only housing, but mainly schools and kindergartens, the largest school in the Balkans, the largest school in Serbia, which is located close to that power line, which is also the data that the World Health Organization treats such cases as high-risk, and in this sense citizens are upset and want someone's support. Also, when it comes to other vulnerable groups and when it comes to both lawyers and health workers, DS, as well as for Vinci, supports citizens, because there is no one behind them and to protect their rights today in Serbia. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in addition to everything we said on December 8th, when these amendments and additions were passed, the law left countless opportunities for a huge amount of corruption that Serbia has never seen in its history. I personally informed Mr. Stefanovic's home and police minister, who has made a promise that he will surely try with special teams from the MUP to investigate whether there is a possibility of corruption. When it comes, first of all, to extract conversions from changes and additions at the time, and today's Law on Planning and Construction, what is happening is that the obvious changes in system laws have been passed at speed, which speaks of the lack of reform capacity of this government. Who knows how many more mistakes were made in the first proposals for changes and additions. These are not reforms the ruling majority in Serbia should implement. These are not reforms that Serbian citizens ultimately deserve. In Article 97 of these amendments, paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: the coefficient of the zone referred to in Article 2 of this Article cannot be greater than 0,1 and the coefficient of purpose cannot be greater than 1.5, as well as the attitude 4 of the amendment and supplementer shall be deleted. This means that the right of local self-government to make any decision on the amount of compensation for the construction land is lifted. This is, of course, the right guaranteed by both the constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government and the DS will advocate that the constitutional appeal examines the constitutionality of such amendments and the addition of the law if it is adopted at all. This provides for a kind of centralised on the one hand, on the other hand, and a huge reduction in income. I will only illustrate how much revenue the City of Belgrade will be less as the capital, but also some local self-government in Serbia will have after adopting such devastating solutions. The city of Belgrade loses between 50m and 70m euros or 10% of its budget. For example, the Tchaitina municipality collected 660 million in this way last year, with this parafiscal charge, which is 30% of the local self-government budget. These changes prohibit local self-government from charging for construction land. In the process of issuing construction permits, no single dinar, when it comes to procedures and fees, will be charged and thanks to this, you will jump to the Doing Business Report 10 or 100 seats, as promised by the prime minister a few days ago in this room, but it is exclusively a table, it is only makeup. Without fundamental changes, these changes and additions will not increase the number of investments in Serbia. Who's going to pay for the end-of-the-line security of municipal infrastructure? Nobody knows that. We'll have a situation where it'll be possible for people to build and to build investors, for example. in the apartment buildings on the last floor there will be no water, for the simple reason that the money for the construction of municipal infrastructure will be missing in all local self-governments. Everything is done by heart, reforming in this sense laws do not exist. This is a system law and this law has to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19016	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19017	I'm done. Like when it comes to conversion, and in this case the constitutional appeal of the DS will reconsider the constitutionality of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19018	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19019	I agree that there is a detailed urban plan for objects and power lines in the paperwork and documentation from 1987, but what Mr Bozovic deliberately skips is that the solution given the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in the Study on the impact assessment of the environmental impact of the Vinca power line project was issued on 31 December 2010. How is something that was safe at the end of 2010 insecure now? How's that? Is the orthopaedic colleague Rakic talking about responsible then? Couldn't he have done his job well? Is that document faked? Who's responsible if that document was faked? Who's responsible if at the end of 2010, the power line, how was the project projected safe for the citizens of Vinci, and then suddenly, how come you're no longer in power, it's insecure? When did you want to fool people in Vinci, now that you're politicizing the whole case? I will tell you, Mr Bozovic, it is entirely incorrect for the power line to pass through primary schools and kindergartens, since these facilities are located outside the planned corridor of the power line, while over part of illegally built buildings, and there are, because you have allowed them to be illegally built, a power line passes, which is why the project takes appropriate measures, increased heights of pillars and conductors and provides complete safety of the environment with adequate technical solutions. But you remain in debt, when you fight so loudly and say that this power line is insecure, who is responsible for the positive solution given by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning for Environmental Impact Assessment? When did you lead these people astray, when you gave a positive solution and a positive opinion, or now that you're politicizing the whole case? I'm still claiming on the basis of the responsible people at the EMS that the Vinca power line facility is safe for the citizens of Vinci, and you're giving irresponsible and flat-rate ratings, say when you were wrong in 2010? Who's responsible in 2010?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19020	I'm sorry, I was sneezing, so I didn't interrupt. I was the problem. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19021	Thank you. Although you have skillfully avoided answering me when it comes to the Law on Planning and Construction, which we call the tycoon law in Serbia, for the simple reason why it allows incredible, or not to say that there is corruption, I say that it allows the greatest corruption in the history of this country because someone is allowed to build on land where they have the right to use without property, but when it comes to power lines, I personally know little about the topic of the World Health Organization. Believe me, from what you just said, you know less than I do. What I know, definitely, and why I asked Mr. Antić to check it, is that what you just showed the Ministry has given and said is in accordance with the law in Serbia, because by law it is allowed in Serbia, Mr. Antić, if I am wrong, correct me, 40 microbody radiation, while the World Health Organization from 1987 to today, doing various research, gives maximum four microbody radiation. In many EU countries, the standard is 0.4 microbody radiation. There is a possibility that there could be up to 100 micro-body radiation in Vinci if electricity was exported through that power line, for example. And that's the only thing that disturbs the peace of the citizens who live there. I'm not saying anything else. This is in accordance with the law today, and you and I agree here. In accordance with the law, yes, but with the law that has become obsolete, which has not changed for a long time and which does not comply with the recommendations of the World Health Organization. Just for that reason, I told Mr. Antic, not that this is an illegal thing, but that this thing, if it can, is being tested by its authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19022	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19023	I'm going to ask some questions again that I won't get an answer to. Did the rules of the World Health Organization apply back then in 2010? Was there a World Health Organization in 2010? Probably not, because there was a Lex specialise in Serbia at the time. This was done by law. You gave the solution, it was agreed by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in the Study on the environmental impact assessment of the projected power line. In 2010, there was no danger for citizens living there. How is 2014 or 2015 a danger? What happened in these four years? What are these standards changed? If the norms have changed, then why didn't you accept them? Then why didn't you bring that standard from 40 to four or 0.4 and say you're wrong. And all right, you don't have a right, it wouldn't be built, there wouldn't be any further expenses. What do you want now? Something that applies in the United States, in Russia, in China, anywhere, to be applied here? Serbia is subject to Serbia's laws. We make those laws. How can he now by some rules that apply anywhere else? We would never do anything, because if something applies to the EU, someone will show up and say yes, but it does not apply in Africa, why is it not done under the conditions that are in Africa, according to the legal proposals that apply there? Now you've admitted that this power line is done by law, that it's safe and I ask you not to cheat on these people anymore, that you no longer manipulate these people and that you don't manipulate this subject. According to regulations, according to the laws in force in Serbia, we have raised the height of the pillars, we have additionally provided, and this is safe for the citizens of Vince.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19024	Thank you. Just wait till she replicates you and Katarina Rakic, and then you will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19025	Since you mention you're not getting any answers, I'm not getting a chance to give you answers. You're saying you pointed to the corruption of the police minister. Well, of course, when you mention the Law on Planning and Construction, you think about corruption, because earlier that law was a synonym to you for corruption. In your presentation, I simply can't figure out if you didn't understand what you read, or do you really mean what you're saying? How can you make it clear that we are removing local self-government units from these changes to charge compensation? So either you haven't read it, or you don't understand what you've read. With the attitude that we're removing today, which is deleted, we're erasing the different coefficients. More specifically, that local self-government can determine different coefficients from those prescribed by law, as I have already said, that some local self-government cannot have the right to decide in some zone not to charge a certain fee for building land at all. It's being abolished. No fee. The fee, of course, remains as the income of local self-government and it is prescribed by law to be passed since 17 January, if you have read the law at all. What's very interesting is how you get excited every time you mention the issue of conversion, how you jumped last time it was a conversion. Of course, this law allows the right to build and conversion is excluded. And why are you nervous? If the conversion had been done, they would have been given the right to ownership and the right to sell. Are you nervous because the tycoons you allowed to be the owners can't handle it now? They could build, so if they were owners, they'd sell it. Then it would be a greater shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19026	Time. I'm sure you'll get another line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19027	Just one more sentence. Since he called that Minister Mihajlovic is not here today, indeed the ministers in this government are not afraid, here and now, although there are two, there are more of them than all of you in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19028	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19029	It's not all about quantity, it's about quality. I wanted to say that it writes here – the contribution to the construction land is not accounted for for for public property facilities, municipal and other infrastructure facilities, manufacturing and storage facilities. That means whoever comes to make money in Belgrade or some local self-government doesn't pay. The one who stays to live, that's the one who pays. So much for that. Small entrepreneurs pay, the one who comes to build the factory doesn't pay. When it comes to the impact on environmental protection, and to return to this topic, the impact on environmental protection, therefore, there is no assessment of the risk of environmental protection in this case. Mr. Sasa Jankovic, as the patron of the citizens, also in a letter to the EMS, seems to me, or to the ministry, I am not sure, do not hold my word, he said it would not be burning to first examine the impact on environmental protection, and only then to approach construction. Mr. Babic, I'm not saying and I don't want to put anyone there in a panic, I'm not saying it's harmful, I just wanted to tell the minister, because the citizens, thousands of them, are afraid for their health and their children's health, to examine it with their authority until the end. As for the conversion, you're completely wrong. I may even personally advocate, not counting my party's views, for conversion without compensation, because in that case tycoons would pay property tax, and today they don't pay for it, but on land with the right to use have the right to build. And then someone who paid for some company in robbery privatisation, as they say, during Vojislav Kostunica, 10m euros, today's land... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19030	Thank you. You promised 15 seconds and now you're asking for more than two minutes. Thank you. The word is Vladimir Petkovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19031	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am advocating Article 106. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I want to express my dissatisfaction, for one simple reason why the previous speaker, I don't think he was able to verify all the allegations before he gave some facts. In fact, a while ago, the previous speaker mentioned an electrical facility in block 32, which is simply, as he said - harmful and dangerous to the health of citizens. What I can say, and to say, is that the previous speaker had no precise knowledge of the object mentioned on block 32. Namely, the mentioned facility on block 32 absolutely meets all criteria in relation to the protection of the environment and human health. The "Nikola Tesla" Institute has carried out the necessary measurements and they are 50 times below the limits allowed. What I'd also like to mention, it's that employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19032	Ambassador, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19033	I'm sorry, but I just wanted to say that the previous speaker wasn't on the subject, in the sense that there was no precise data, and I wanted to make a parallel with this distance from Vinci. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19034	Thank you. I'm not giving any explanation. Article 107 - Dignity of the Assembly. I don't think you're right. I hope you're not going to ask us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (No) Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19035	I'm glad we're slowly putting an end to the subject, but I would remind you to remind you of that point by reminding other colleagues from your parliamentary group, Mr Bozovic. We trusted the Study to assess the environmental impact of this project, or the power line in Vinca. We believed that this study was done by serious people, responsible people. They stamped, put their careers on and guaranteed that there was no negative impact on the environment and on people living in Vinci, near that power line. In part, we believed in the consent of the Ministry of Environment, partly because of this orthopaedic which Mrs Rakic spoke of, and therefore, Mr Bozovic, we met some requirements, I want to say all the requirements and additionally collect the project, because what is the price in relation to people's health, to the safety of people, to keep these people calm. Since all the pillars of that power line have been raised and the distances of the conductors from the ground have been increased, so now, regardless of the price of the minimum level of the conductor along the entire line of lines are 21 meters, significantly more than the projected, because we wanted to prevent people living in illegally built buildings under the lines of the power line, I would not like to believe that the largest kindergarten in Belgrade was built illegally or that someone agreed to build such a kindergarten on the path of the power line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19036	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19037	First of all, I would like Mrs. Djokovic, who spoke earlier to thank for the support of the law and for really contributing once to this debate and understanding of the legal provisions that have been implemented in the new energy law and to say that we will really try to analyze all the proposals that are related to Cačak and try to find some projects that are related to renewable sources that can be interesting for the territory of that city. What I want to comment on when it comes to Mr Bozovic's discussion, of course with a really good reference to the fact that in the Energy Act we have a lot of understanding by opposition MPs and announcements of the possibility that even in the voting day, I have explained the urgency of the procedure in the morning work and I really ask for the understanding of the explanations we have given. The government was elected on April 27th, in May we had floods, in June formed a working group, had a great agreement with both the Energy Community and other institutions. The draft law addressed to the government the opinion of other ministries on 5 November, a serious procedure for agreeing within the government and on 19 December finally passed the draft law and met before lawmakers. It is important that, as of 1 January, we enter into force because of the commitments we have made, but which are not to that extent fixed, because I repeat, we will be the only country in the Energy Community Treaty, which will fully update its legislation and adapt it to other EU Member States, but rather for the reasons why we are really raising our country's credibility and I can say freely and in this segment we show that we are absolutely a leader and a region. When it comes to the Vinca power line, it is part of an important project in Belgrade 20 and since we collaborated in Belgrade a few years ago, I think Mr Bozovic understands the importance of the project. The city administration at the time had an extremely good relationship with the realisation of the project and, moreover, established a partnership relationship with the "Electro Network of Serbia" in 2012 in an attempt to finally complete this project, because I repeat, an extremely important project that should ensure the creation of this ring around Belgrade, which guarantees absolutely certain supply of Belgrade, which is not only important for Belgrade, but is important for the overall electricity stability of our country. I simply appeal today from this place, as someone who is trying to be responsible for the portfolio he manages, to try to keep everyone together about politicizing some topics that simply do not allow it because politicizing such topics can lead to serious public alerting and creating a bad atmosphere among citizens who can then spread to us and that we have a problem in any investment and in any new project. I have information on the subject that this project has been fully done in a quality, legal way, respecting the highest standards of environmental protection. I can confirm what Mr. Babic was talking about. The project has been modified. These changes were carried out by the collection of the project itself, the studies of influence done, made, adopted positive. I have no problem with the management of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" once again sitting down and going through all these papers, but I repeat, the project was done in accordance with the law, respecting regulations and standards and protecting the environment. For the sake of peace in the house, we will take another look at it, although I repeat, the information and data that we have at our ministry say it is a project that is completely safe for the lives and health of people living along the route. I don't care that they live in illegal facilities, we have to take care of the health of all people, and I think that's exactly what we're doing on this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19038	Thank you, Mr. Antic. Mr. Bozovic, I don't think you have a basis for exposing Mr. Antic. Only if you really think you have something important to say, which would be significant. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Only in favour of it, I want to support it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19039	I just want to say it would be perfectly clear. We do not advocate the construction of power lines, please, it is a very important thing when it comes to the energy system in the capital and in Serbia. So we're not against construction. We simply advocate that not in accordance with the law that has become obsolete, because it has been passed in the 1980s, but in accordance with the World Health Organization standards, it is a bad influence when it comes to protecting the environment, so if there is no problem building it along that path. If there is and if this research tells us that it's a very high risk of disease and various diseases that radiation can cause, then just change the course, and that the power line, of course, is built. Why? Because we're worried because it's 15 meters from the school yard or 46 meters from the roof of the school. So we express our concern because we think that citizens who, I'm quite sure and Mr Antic also thinks the same thing, and I'm glad that we agree here, regardless of whether there are many illegal objects in Serbia and that someone there had to build a school and a kindergarten, it was once again the need of that part of the city. But we think we need to take care of everyone, that everyone has the right to know as well as the citizens of block 23 in New Belgrade. They have the right to know whether it's harmful to their health and their children's health or not, that trapo station. This is the power line, there's the trafo station, and that's all, just to be transparent. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19040	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19041	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are discussing several draft laws, and there is one agreement between them. In my presentation, I would first of all refer to the Energy Act and the IPA 2 Fund agreement. There are several reasons for the adoption of the Energy Act. One of them is certainly harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. One reason is that the existing law, or practical application, has also shown that there are shortcomings. I'll only list a few shortcomings. This is the black market for oil derivatives, then the problem of unauthorized use of electricity and the problem of monitoring the quality of supplied electricity and natural gas. Also, no minor problem is that in the vicinity of a number of power plants, various works are being performed and different objects are being raised, which is certainly unacceptable. If this bill is adopted, absolutely all the measures provided for in the third energy package will be applied. This will certainly have a positive impact on our entire energy system, which, of course, should be expected to have a very positive impact on both citizens and citizens of Serbia, which is the ultimate goal. What is expected is one sure supply of electricity and natural gas, not only for sure, but also for quality. The importance of security is extremely high, so that it will finally stand in the way and that citizens will no longer wonder and fear whether there will be enough natural gas and electricity. Then, what will also be achieved is the strengthening of competition on the market, consumer protection and the use of renewable energy sources. What I would particularly point out when this law is at stake, which I think is very positive and good, is that one climate is created which is much more positive for investors. Why? Because so far, an investor, in order to obtain a license, or a right to a connection, had to go through an extremely long procedure, and now the procedure has been reformed by the administration, which is really significantly simplified and significantly shortened by the law, which is certainly more than good. Then, what is the paper, and it is proposed by this law, which I also think is very good, is that it allows a foreign legal person to be free and uninterrupted about the activity of supplying electricity to a large extent without being registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is one significant relief. Of course, all these measures that I've listed so far are significantly improving one investment climate, which I think is very favourable and at all taking, I think the bill is very high-quality and should be supported. As far as IPA 2 funds are concerned, I think it's an agreement that is one of the most important, if not the most important agreement for our country. It is, in fact, an agreement that represents a legal instrument that should allow the Republic of Serbia to receive 1.5 billion euros in grants at a time interval from 2014 to 2020. The funds will be used in different areas. Now energy is in focus. However, funds will be used, of course, in other areas, such as education, such as transport, such as agriculture, rural development and other areas. What is news when IPA 2 funds are at stake, besides having one sectoral approach now, is that the right to access funds also has countries that are candidates and countries that are potential candidates. So there's no difference between them. What is particularly important is what this agreement brings, that Serbian citizens will finally see what is the practical benefit of the EU, which is why our government is so committed to Euro-integration. If the funds that we have now received are this significant, the funds we will receive when we are members of the EU will be at least double the size, which is more than significant and what is the motive for continuing this euro integration policy. What the EU will expect from us and what it is very much on is regional co-operation. In fact, all Western Balkan countries will have to work on as much integration as possible in all areas. Indeed, there is one major emphasis on strengthening all aspects of regional co-operation. Of course, a quality economic reform is also very important for the EU. So, the economy is one base, a base of every society, and exactly the quality of this base depends on how high the upgrade will be. Two basic preconditions for the proper use of IPA 2 funds. These are appropriate administrative capacities and projects. What I would like to point out is that our country is among the first to educate the National Investment Committee. This committee aims to determine which projects are the best quality, the best, which have the best idea, but which are technically ready. It means that some project can have a great idea, but if technically it's not prepared enough, it all falls into the water. At the very end, what I'd like to point out, perhaps even what's most important, is the degree of exploitation of IPA funds. I hope that we will take advantage of the opportunity we've got, which I'm sure of, and I think it's a great opportunity, and that as a society, we will show that we have enough maturity, and that we are willing to make the best possible use of the resources that are being provided to us. Of course, we will have to do a lot of work, especially when it comes to our administration, and also when it comes to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, which we are very much working on. Anyway, I think it's worth the effort because we have a clear goal ahead of us. Because of all this, I believe that this agreement and how it should be supported, as well as the other draft laws that we are discussing today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19042	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19043	We are talking a lot today about the Framework Agreement and the use of IPA 2 and I am pleased that all MPs and positions and oppositions have recognised the importance and importance of this agreement, and in particular the accelerated dynamics that certainly did not go to harm neither the quality nor the public debate, but it is certainly good to always discuss, especially because of the citizens of Serbia, these financial instruments of pre-accession assistance at our disposal. The MP mentioned this sectoral approach and since we've talked a lot about it today, just for a very short time to explain how the IPA funding priorities will be identified. Most of the support, that is already certain, will be directed towards the needs identified in the negotiating process and priorities identified in the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. So, among the particularly important areas, a new EU enlargement strategy determines the rule of law, economic governance, competitiveness and public administration reform. Of course, the regional dimension, especially the integration of infrastructure that is part of the common trans-European network, is particularly important and we also had a regional conference in Belgrade at the end of August, which we now refer to as the "Berlin Process", which was in fact the beginning of an exceptional dynamic which, in the coming year and in the coming years, in the medium-term perspective will mean better integration of the region and funding and the demand for different sources of funding for joint regional infrastructure projects. When I say regionally, I mean Western Balkan countries, because it is also recognized as the key factor of growth, the creation of new jobs and employment. This is the 2020 Strategy that actually defines these key parameters. I think it is very important to mention, I don't think I mentioned it, that Serbia has one document that is important for planning the use of international development aid, which is a unique overview of priority infrastructure projects. We are among the better in the region, we can boast. This means that we have a clear methodology for priority of projects, which is not insignificant when it comes to candidateing for projects and when it comes to the fact that through IPA 2, if we are effective and if we are good at preparing projects and implementing projects, we can even get additional funding. Just one little correction. You mentioned that the structural funds available at the time of EU membership are twice as high. They're five to ten times bigger. At that time, it is not 200m that Serbia can count as a candidate country today, but on average about one billion, annually, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19044	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Risticevic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19045	Dear ladies and honored gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mr. Becic, the honored guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Antic, we will vote against the draft energy law. Our reasons, gentlemen, are principled, because we believe Mr. Antic your arguments about the urgency of the procedure are weak. I have to go back to that argument. Look out, gentlemen and People's MPs here, today is December 26th. We received the draft energy law here in the Assembly on December 22nd. This was the day when the 2015 budget debate and amending the 2014 Budget Law began. We were all involved in this debate. It's been going on all these days. The bill, directed by Mr Antic, has 434 members. We discussed the budget until yesterday morning at eight o'clock, gentlemen. Day and night. I explained my arguments for 15 hours here without a break. Mr. Antic, when is it for me to read your 434 members of the Energy Law proposal? When? If I assume I also read the 2015 budget, which I am, and the rebalancing for 2014, which I did, and previously 513 members of the law of the National Bank of Serbia, respected gentlemen. Well, the expectation of one MP, of course, if he's not sent to matter to consult, but to read the bill himself. I can't, gentlemen, vote for the bill without reading it. How am I supposed to vote today when there was no theoretical chance, Mr Antic, that I should read this? For principled reasons, I'll vote against it. Second thing, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I will also vote against the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. Here, Mrs. Rakic here, let me also tell Mr. Babic and Mrs. Vlahovic and the other gentlemen, Giric and Atlagic. Look out, gentlemen, two weeks ago, MPs of the advanced party voted to amend and supplement the same law. Look, gentlemen, two weeks ago you didn't even want to hear us arguing that we needed a whole new law on planning and construction. A brand-new, esteemed gentlemen. What's going on? Today we're discussing amendments to the law that we changed here two years ago. Look, gentlemen, I've read in literature has a name for it. We make one law a rag of the law. Here's a dictionary of what a rag means, gentlemen. Serbian language dictionary "Mother of Serbs". Here, let me read it to you, so let's see who votes for that piece of law. Here, he says: “The cloth, what has been done or done badly, unknowingly, inconsistently, in any case, what is concluded, has been tempered. ” Dear gentlemen, two weeks ago, we suggested that you wait here until the end of March, and that we from the New Party submit to you a proposal for a new Law on Planning and Construction and we will submit by the end of March. We in the congregation procedure are going to refer an absolutely new draft of the Law on Planning and Construction, gentlemen, instead of patching up the law here. Well, our Assembly, how many times I repeat here, is the sanctuary of political life. The content of the law we adopt must be the best, the best quality, not every two weeks to change changes and additions, changes and additions to one of those same laws, gentlemen. Third thing, we will vote for the adoption of this IPA 2 bill, Mrs Joksimovic. We'll vote for it, but I have to ask you something. Mrs Joksimovic, we graduated from the same university. Mrs Joksimovic, you were a student of the generation. I was a generation student at that college. I know that you know, Mrs Joksimovic, what European values are, what the rule of law is, what the division of power is, and all that is written in our Constitution. I wonder, Mrs Joksimovic, how is it that at one session of the government you do not answer and ask the question of the executive's relations with the Assembly? Well, do you see how our debate is going today? Following an emergency procedure, with the call for European practice, and then Mr Antic says - European practice bypassing the Assembly. The assembly is seen as a shortcut, or these legal rags, Mrs Joksimovic. How is it that you do not react to this as a minister dealing with European integration, whose basis is the rule of law, respected Mrs Joksimovic? I'm terribly interested in the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19046	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You see, I warned you for five minutes, that you spoke for five minutes and 16 seconds. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Replica, Mr Zoran Babic, and then Ms. Minister Joksimovic and Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19047	I thank both Mrs Joksimovic and Mr Antic for respecting the National Assembly and giving me the advantage. The speech of the previous speaker shows energy, but I would rather have the energy invested in reading the legal proposals, because I think that the list of laws that he would support would be far greater than this, although I am glad for the words that the whole of Serbia knows and why the Adriatic is the pride of the SNS. On the other hand, away from the agenda, unfortunately the previous speaker did not pass. Some of these legal proposals may be a rag, but the previous speaker has given support to the political party, and his leader has led a political party that has forced almost all Serbian citizens to endure, and has given them a chance to hold. And that's why I'd like to ask the previous speaker to find out what it means to be both patient and patient. Serbia's advanced party is being held in prison and in the judicial system, and we are struggling that Serbian citizens will never feel the patience again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19048	Thank you, Mr. Granny. He's got a word. You'll get a line, Mr. Pavicevic. [[Vladimir Pavićevic, from the place: Direct replica please.]] Not necessarily, Mr Pavicevic, because your exposure also has something to say both Mrs Joksimovic and Mr Antic and then you will have a chance at a replica. Here's a word from Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19049	Dear Mr. Pavicevic, first of all, thank you for your kind words, I didn't expect to, but it's certainly nice to hear and know that we are colleagues, but as far as your question is concerned. First, I have to say part of the urgency of the IPA2 procedure I explained today. It's okay, right? Okay. There is a trap, and I have pointed it out to colleagues from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who even manifested themselves in the progress report. So, last year's European Commission, which is that we incorrectly called the short procedure an emergency procedure. A brief procedure is not the same as an emergency procedure. So, a number of laws that we've received some criticism about going through emergency procedures haven't actually gone through the emergency procedure. It's our mistake to translate it into English as an emergency procedure for what's been shortened procedure. A shortened procedure means that the bill has passed all phases in the procedural sense it must go through the Assembly only as short as possible in the National Assembly. But, therefore, no segment of procedure is bypassed. As far as the Energy Act is concerned, I must remind you, too, of a report by the European Commission in which there are five parts of the work, which is the first security of supply, the internal energy market, renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, but also nuclear energy, nuclear security and radiation protection. So these are important parts. One of the most important parts that has been damaged has not been made, although moderate progress has been established, is coordination with the third energy package. Because of the various international implications of circumstances that we don't have to discuss now, I think that the Energy Act is really so important and so much removed the problem of harmonising with the third energy package, that I think it really had the elements of urgency. If you take that as an argument, I don't have another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19050	Thank you. The word has a minister, you give priority to Mr Pavicevic. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mr. Becic, honored guests, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I now appreciate Mr. Antic's procedure. He's kind of showing off right now, but then one respect for the MPs. There are two things I have to say here. First, Mr. Babic says – what this man says when he did not read the bill. I haven't read the honored gentlemen, but I am now asking here who could read the bill of 434 members of the law, after a four-day debate on the 2015 budget, following the 65 amendments I have tabled here, seven were adopted, previously the National Bank of Serbia 513 amendments and 530 members, the previous Law on Planning and Construction. Dear gentlemen, only that no man sleeps one night in the last month. So who could have read it, dear gentlemen? For principled reasons, gentlemen, I can't deal with my safety so I can vote for some bill that the theoretical odds weren't, I couldn't read. Second thing, second note, respected gentlemen and Mrs Joksimovic, you say the Energy Act is so important that it is a valid urgency, that we call it that, it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I am thinking this way, Mrs Joksimovic, if some bill is so important, the most serious debate on such a bill, gentlemen, we must lead in an institution that is central, political and institution in our constitutional system, and that is our National Assembly. I don't blame the members and members of the government, but I resent the MPs, above all, the Progressive Party, for not once showing resistance to the executive government, to fight for the dignity of the National Assembly, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19052	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19053	So I think I've really explained to you what emergency procedures mean and what short procedures mean, and I think it's very, if we're mistranslated in English, that doesn't mean we don't have a proper definition in our language. As for the importance and debate in the most legislative body, such as the National Assembly, I think that the reasons that simply led the government to come out with the bill in the course of this year are primarily about this part that I told you about harmonising with the third energy package, because as you know very well, given that you are from political sciences and that you know the importance of international relations implies a number of things. So also in energy stability, security, and not to mention Serbia's international position, if you want from the aspect of energy security. So, I really don't want to go further into the technical debate whether the procedure is respected until the end or not, I think there are absolutely reasons for the emergency procedure or for the short procedure, because I'm really not sure that the Energy Law has not passed any public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19054	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How come I, the one and the three of them, are closing the circle of replicas? Where's the justice? Please, Mr. Pavicevic. All right, you'll get it, and then we close the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19055	I think a lot of words have been spoken here seeking protection of the reputation of the National Assembly, but I would like to say that I do not, of course, think about Mrs Joksimovic, it is pride, but that the previous speaker when he speaks of dignity first in favour of the president of his party, because of what he has honored us with very bad news that is not suitable for any object, let alone a central political institution, such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You, or Mr. Zivkovic, are such an institution and have honored us all by calling us "stokom", Mr. Pavicevic. As for the number of amendments and the number of members, mathematics is very exact, I like mathematics, I studied, not math engineering, but it is an integral part of engineering. If we now looked at the number of members of this law and how long we all had to prepare ourselves for this law, how long is it now for Mr. Antic to review the table of amendments, not to say five hundred and six to which we were bombed in the previous period, so we didn't object. Tomorrow is the government, I think, in the morning. Mr. Antic and his associates are expecting a night of rage, and they didn't say once, there's a lot of amendments, why you're teaching amendments, we won't make it, so we'll get there. As the National Bank has managed to process, as all other ministries have arrived to do and to give meaningful answers to unspeakable amendments "is deleted" with an identical explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19056	Time. Thank you. The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic and let's try to close the replicas in this circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19057	Dear ladies and honored gentlemen, MPs, respected chairman of Becic, respected guests from the government of the Republic of Serbia, including guests from the European Integration Office. There are two things I have to mention here now in the replica, both Mr. Babic and Mrs. Joksimovic. Look, gentlemen, I don't think it's a great mathematics to count the number of members of a bill, since I see that Mr. Babic thinks it's some high mathematics or number of pages that make up some bill or bill proposals. I understand that perhaps Mr. Antic's associates, that they have a long night ahead of them, a hard day, because the day after tomorrow we'll discuss the amendments. Dear gentlemen, they will analyse these proposals for two days. We have the last four days here, with the budgets of another ten draft laws, and the previous National Bank with two out of 513. I have to read all of this, and Mr. Antic has two days to read maybe 80 amendments. Just to tell you, it's only a matter of our good faith that we have not submitted 434 amendments to 434 members for principle reasons, we are not. It's a matter of our goodwill, gentlemen. Another thing, Mrs Joksimovic says, the importance of the law is well explained. Mrs Joksimovic, I listened carefully to Mr Antic, and he says – this agreement must be applied by other countries. Mr. Antic said tonight. No state will be as ready to apply as Serbia. Then what are we ready for here, gentlemen? We are prepared to humiliate our most significant institution, to know that others will not be ready to do so. Why, dear gentlemen? Because there was some irresponsibility towards the National Assembly, Mrs Joksimovic, and then it's the rule of law, it's European integration and it's not a technical question, Mrs Joksimovic, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19058	The word has Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19059	I will not be replicating you anymore, but if you are already talking about the respect and reputation of the National Assembly and if you feel, and if you should, every MP of the people, and I was a people's messenger, an honor to sit in the National Assembly, then, firstly, you should take care of the dictionary used in the National Assembly. That's the first thing. The other thing, therefore, I didn't say "Ricnik", you're talking about "Ricnik", you didn't understand me, I wasn't talking about you, but about your colleague who is sitting with you and who, I'm sorry, you didn't intervene at any time, unfortunately Mr. Pavicevic, you who are calling for honor and dignity to belong to the National Assembly, did not intervene on what Mr. Zivkovic said here a few days ago and that is inconsistencies. On the other hand, you have announced the possibility that the matter, therefore, is only of your own good will, whether to say you are using the procedure and to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to give 434 amendments to "expect" on something you have not even read. If that's respect, therefore, for the National Assembly and the Bills, then I think obstruction, abuse of procedure can be legal, but it's not legitimate if you already feel like an honorary member, the elected representative of the people in the National Assembly, but I really don't want to deem it, anyway, I'm glad you're going to vote for at least one law, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19060	Thank you, Miss Joksimovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19061	I already see that there's been a break-up in the New Party. Rascal. All that Zivkovic did a few days ago and disrespected the National Assembly, calling us cattle, here, now Mr Pavicevic says – keep dignity, take care in the National Assembly. Raskol, people, the New Party split up with two members in half. Everyone on their side. Here, I see a gap. Done. I know numbers can hurt. The pain of Pajtic is because with 6% of the government in Vojvodina, but those figures do not represent them as high politics, I wanted to introduce Mr Pavicevic into the text, to introduce him to turn the other side, not only to watch the title. You know, a lot of good is in the text of the law. That's all I wanted to do was initiate you into the text itself, into the reading itself. On the other hand, that you have done a little more of an analysis of those who are no longer in the hall, so they are not interested in the National Assembly, they have better things to do, and this shows probably great respect for the National Assembly, and I mean Mr Pavicevic's coalition partners from the DS, it wasn't interesting to you, nor did it matter when in 2010 and 2011, we had connected not these six, seven laws, 78, 56 in February 2010, at thirty and something, not that we couldn't read, we couldn't bring so many readings to Mr Pavicic, we couldn't remember the titles, let alone texts. It didn't bother you at the time, but this divide is much more interesting, it's a new deoba, new earthquakes on Serbia's political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19062	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, and respected gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have to focus on one part of Mr. Babic's exposure, and that part concerns trust. I can't trust a man who sat in this bench and said, "I'm not here." Dear gentlemen, the man sits down says - I'm not here, and now I should have some confidence in what the man who sat and said - I'm not here, he says. Please, the other goal, the New Party, just to tell you, is no obstruction or anything else. The New Party's goal, gentlemen, is to destructure a poor government. Destruction. We can start with the Serbian language, but there is much better reading to know what it means to be respected gentlemen. The third thing, Mrs Joksimovic, the submission of amendments to the MP or MPs can never be treated as abuse, and you just said it was. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Yes. He can't, dear gentlemen. When an amendment is submitted, this means that one MP uses one of his rights defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by law and by the Constitution. You can't do what's right and when someone is using that right to call abuse, and when it comes to the dignity of the Assembly, it's, I think, the most questionable question is when the Prime Minister called MPs streetmen, gentlemen. When Mr. Babic calls me a hater here, and I've never said an offensive word in this National Assembly or anywhere else, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19064	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19065	I really, even though I promised not to answer again, I think you simply didn't understand me well, or you don't know the spirit of parliamentaryism. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia pay MPs to read the laws and to submit reasonable, excessive or whatever, but based on what is read and on what is learned. So I think there's a possibility of being and there's an obstruction by submitting amendments if you're going to submit amendments to what you haven't read that you're saying you don't know what it is. Just my argument, and for that I'm sure the citizens of Serbia shouldn't pay anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19066	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19067	Today I read an interesting reading in a daily newspaper, that too long a stay in one room, and we voted on the budget for about twenty-two-three hours, bringing the condition of the organism into some state as if we were in an alcoholic state. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, they put my picture. ) It is, I don't affect Mr. Djurisic's independence of the media, because I don't want to, and I don't know what the picture is, but that was the text. From what I've just said, I can only add and attribute to that kind of condition. Nor has the Prime Minister ever called anyone in this alley a streetman, but a political coward, yes, and we will repeat that because it is, nor have I dealt with mirage I am not there, but let's add it to the confirmation of this text that I read today, a very interesting text with not such a beautiful picture. As far as deconstruction is concerned. Destruction is done by the authorities as well as by the construction of citizens in the elections. The citizens in the elections constructed themselves using the terminology of the previous speaker, constructed support for Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the policy of reform, and those who burned this sanctuary and the center of political events in their decreation, respecting it so much, and today comparing it with the barn, because in the barn the livestock speaks more about you and the division in the New Foreigner. But I am left silent with the one and the patient and the patient you supported, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19068	Thank you. A notice to the MPs that we are no more than this moment in direct transmission. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What are they used to do. Mr. Pavicevic, this really doesn't make sense. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: This is really humiliating. Mr. Pavicevic, it really doesn't make sense what you're doing. I've been informed by RTS that we've been out of direct transmission since 20 hours. It will be postponed in some time after two to three hours, so Mr. Pavicevic, don't deceive the Assembly in such a way, you keep doing it. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19069	Well, as far as I can tell, I was the only one here who saw a piece of that transmission and a piece of the glory I gave to Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19070	I apologize for that, Mr Anticu.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19071	I am absolutely here because I respect the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not because of TV transmissions. I didn't want to be a part of the controversy, and I don't want to be a part of it right now. I want to express my hope that Mr. Pavicevic will have time to read the Energy Act, as there must be 48 hours before the vote. If you were a little less into the dictionary, and more of the Energy Act, I believe you'd get a sense of the law itself. And during the budget debate and budget preparation, I thought the Energy Act was a little bit more interesting, since budgets are just numbers, and here are mostly letters, so it's better to read. What's now a serious part of my reporting is just one little correction. I have not said for a moment that the way this law is passed is some European practice, as you said. I gave one explanation and tried to justify the fact that this law entered the procedure the way it did and the way I'm not completely happy about it. Of course, I wish the MPs had more time to prepare when it comes to this law, and I have explained about how much work and harmonisation was on this bill since the establishment of a task force for the finalisation of this law, which my colleague Mihajlovic began in 2013. He was also in public debate in November 2013. Since June, a new task force, since June, has been agreeing with the Energy Community. Of course, once again the entire circle of compliance with all energy companies, they announce that the law will go into adoption by the end of the year. The draft law has always been updated on the Ministry of Mining and Energy website. I mean, we didn't run away from the public. The public was involved all the time. And at this very moment, while I'm with you, the e-mails from different groups are coming in regarding certain requirements, related to further harmonisation of the law. I repeat what I said and what my colleague Joksimovic confirmed, I deeply believe it is in the interest of our country to adopt this law, to start applying from January 1st. It is good for our country's credibility and, I repeat, I believe it is good to get that assessment that we are the first country in the Energy Community Treaty to fully update its legislation with all energy directives, i.e. with EU legislation. I'm sorry you failed to analyze this legal project. I suppose it's easier for large parliamentary groups to prepare because they share their duties when it comes to MPs. I repeat, there are other laws before us that my ministry will propose. We will try to make the National Assembly part of the legislative process itself sooner, or the process of passing the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19072	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You can't get replicas all night. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: everyone wins. On whose display? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: Mr Antic's presentation. ) Mr Pavicevic, I have already given my word to Mr Djukanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I answered before that. You weren't in the system. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. You're not. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I will have to report to the Rules of Procedure if you do not give me the right to reply. ) He has already received the word Mr Vladimir Djukanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You did not give him the word. He didn't have a microphone on. You will get your word when Mr. Djukanovic is finished. You can't give someone my word every time and I have to take it away to give you my word. When Mr. Djukanovic is finished, you'll get your word. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19073	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't see any reason to be angry with someone who... How about a little quiet? However, this is one serious law and I agree to discuss such serious matters in a serious way. You know, someone who's been making an amendment to move the point and point and stuff, if he hadn't done that, he might have read this law, so what to do. You know, the difference is whether you want to access something constructively or destructively, but it's already a matter of who submits the amendments. I'd like to say a few things here. First, it is a very important letter from the Energy Community, which I have shown here, where the director of the Energy Community, the deputy director, actually, the head of the legal department has signed and absolutely praised both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all those people who participated in the creation of this law for the law itself. Therefore, we cannot say that the profession is not consulted or that, for example, it does not go towards European integration. This law, as Mrs Joksimovic said, is something that takes a lot off our backs. I'll read in the conclusion what the man stated. He says: “Let me thank you once again personally for your leadership of this challenging task, making a new energy law. As things stand today, Serbia could not only meet the deadline of 1 January 2015, but could also be the first contracting party to complete the process of updating its legislative framework. That would be a great success in itself. We will be available to you during the legislative process and after adoption." A commendation like this is something that can only please us. However, we have a few things to discuss here, Mr. Antic. First, we are deeply aware that as a state, we are entering such a system that, especially in the distribution of electricity, we have to liberalize the market. Unfortunately, there's no minister, but I believe you'll pass it on to him. I'm afraid we're getting into it quite unprepared because someone in an earlier period has completely ruined our power system. Now the situation is what it is. We have to fulfill what those who otherwise have signed and we have been liberalizing the market since 1 January. A private power distributor will be able to appear. Legal persons can already, and it seems to me that even natural persons will be able to choose from whom to buy electricity, or electricity. I think our "Electroprivreda of Serbia" helmet for this by introducing corporate governance. It's a good thing he's moving into it and it's good to announce it, but I'm afraid we're not prepared to enter the game. We'll see how that comes out. I don't blame this government, far from it, on those who led to it, because we had a genius system in which a monopoly company, such as "Electroprivred Serbia", ended in 2011 and 2012, with 400,000 dinars of loss. As someone managed to do that, I congratulate him, but if you have one single company that can only distribute electricity, and to be in a negative, it's a really fascinating success, and I'm just shocked that such a company has destroyed and ruined. What is being run here is that we need to be aware that, by our Constitution, the Network is 100% owned by the Republic of Serbia and we cannot now just give these connections and that everyone is hanging onto our networks. It's simple, either we change the Constitution or we change some legislative frameworks. I can't accept that thesis so whoever wants to join your network can. We just need to take care of some of the state's interests. It's public good and it's good that the government recognized it and that such things, which may be in the Law on Planning and Construction, are a little confusing and quick to bring this, let's say, something like this right. As for our company, rarely who mentions it here today, but it is a very important sentence from the prime minister himself that in the future, for example, "Srbigas" will no longer receive a grant dinar from the state and will not receive any business. This is a very important thing, and we must finally understand that our energy companies are not social enterprises, but they are enterprises that have to bring profits to the Republic of Serbia. You know what, we'll either get used to the market or we'll just go bankrupt. It can't happen anymore that someone doesn't pay the fines, that someone doesn't pay the electricity. It's something that needs to change in the minds of the people themselves that it's our obligation. Why would anyone let that happen before? Why do we have restructure companies that didn't pay for electricity? It's not clear to me, but that led to the collapse of our power system because it introduced such a crazy rule that the company that enters the restructuring does not pay for electricity. It's past any market logic, but unfortunately, we've been witnessing that it's been happening and it's been so destroyed all over this country for years. Also, I don't understand it in my own time, and it's good that this practice was interrupted, related to that famous intervention in the purchase of electricity. There were various companies that had incredible influences. It's good to break up with that practice. We had really one company that was a purse-mad system, but they bought the most electrical energy, for example. in the summer period when it is much cheaper, and then the same electricity sells EPS in the winter period when it is more expensive. Of course they were making money on that big difference, and the state was damaged. Who gave them such a job? It is known about Mr Hamovic and Lazarevic many things that can be pointed out here. I'm shocked when that famous polling committee was here, which Mr. Vukic led, but things like that were carried out here, that I'm surprised that the prosecution's never responded to such a thing before. I would like you to record this, Mrs Filipovic, I received from an NGO, or consumer organisation "Prosperity" from Novi Sad, an e-mail. They asked the law itself to enter this control of crude oil. I don't think they've been familiar enough, they've been looking for it through point 29 in Article 16 to define it, that control of crude oil and its quality, so I'd like it to be explained a little bit, if the minister were able to possibly pass it on to him. It seems to me that in law some subsequent members are being introduced, but people may not know, they haven't read it enough. It would be very good to inform them about it. After all, as far as oil control itself is concerned, it's a good thing this marking was introduced. I see from the data that you've provided us here, 30 million euros, among other things, is more income than all these massive excise duties, and it's really something that's good, but it seems to me that this control has to be even more rigid in order for the bill to increase and that the state will no longer have any damage, although I can see through the fall of this oil price that there's less smuggling, but it's good that this smuggling is absolutely contained. Anyway, it's very important that this law be passed as soon as possible. I think this is a good law and full support when the voting time comes. I cannot understand those people who rhetorically advocated entering the EU, that they would vote against something like this, but again, if they had read more of the law, and had not submitted amendments to the type one point or two points to change, they would have probably read and perhaps voted for something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19074	Thank you. The MP of the people, Dusica Stojkovic, is not there, so the People's MP Dalibor Radcevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19075	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my address, I will refer to the Energy Act. The energy law was passed in 2004 and its adoption started the process of reforms in the energy sector. He was tasked with providing conditions for more efficient work and development of all entities dealing with energy performance under market conditions, as well as compliance with EU rules. The law implements the provisions of the second EU regulation package and provides the basis for applying the rules, which relate to the obligation to separate energy entities. Based on this, accounting and legal separation of electricity transmission, which deals with JP ESM, as well as production, distribution and trade in electricity, was carried out, which was taken over by JP EPS. Under the law, the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia has also been established, with the task of carrying out tasks to improve and direct the development of the energy market, as well as energy operators' activities to provide regular supply of energy customers. Following the adoption of the law in 2005, a contract was signed on the establishment of the Energy Community with the European Community and the countries of the environment. The contract defines the conditions and rules for the internal electricity market, natural gas, as well as cross-border energy exchanges. Meanwhile, the EU has adopted a third package of regulations on the internal energy market. Its goal is to eliminate systemic problems in the functioning of the electricity and natural gas markets. The main guidelines of the third package are stricter conditions for the separation of transmission system operators, strengthening of powers, as well as functional and financial independence of regulatory bodies, as well as improving the protection of electricity and natural gas consumers. The Decision of the Energy Community Council of Ministers established the obligation for the Republic of Serbia to implement those provisions from the third package by 1 January 2015. The 2011 Energy Act continued to reform the energy sector and a second package of measures was fully implemented and the implementation of the third package started. The new Energy Law proposal aims to complete the process of implementing the third package of regulations, creating conditions for the safe, quality and reliable supply of electricity and natural gas, promoting competitiveness on the market, developing energy infrastructure and introducing modern technologies, protecting customers, as well as using renewable energy sources. The new Energy Act contains detailed standards which aim to address the problems identified in the application of the applicable rules of the Energy Act. Some of the problems solved by the new law are: taking over measured developmental closets and measuring devices, adopting and implementing plans for their takeover, problems of monitoring the quality of electricity delivered or natural gas, as well as quality of electricity supply and natural gas, problems of jeopardising energy facilities by building, carrying out other works in their vicinity, problems of non-authorising electricity consumption, problems of monitoring oil derivatives, the fight against the black market of oil derivatives and similar problems. In addition to adapting and harmonising the regulatory framework with EU legal assets in the field of energy, the adoption of a new Energy Act will also affect the conditions for the safe supply of the Republic of Serbia's markets to energy and energy, and the proposed solutions also bring about conditions for investment in energy-using renewables. It should be pointed out that the draft energy law does not prescribe new costs for citizens in relation to the existing law, except in the part relating to the formation of energy reserves. With everything mentioned above, I have come to the conclusion that we have a high quality bill and that in the day of voting I will support the adoption of the Energy Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19076	Thank you. Mr Milos Tosanic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19077	Dear Chairman, Ms. Minister Joksimovic, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this united debate, I will talk about the Energy Act, more specifically about the work dedicated to renewable energy sources, in the work contained in the law of 65 to 87 members. The new Energy Act is simplified in all segments where this is possible, adapted and complemented by the new conditions that energy today requires of us, new world energy flows, both in the use of existing energy sources and in the production and distribution of new species of energy, especially from renewable sources. This law is precisely aimed at correcting, supplementing and precise all shortcomings and shortcomings in the previous law, and all according to European regulations and global trends in energy development. The draft law is adapted to new technologies through new market conditions, where in the direction of the development of the energy system in these segments they are separated through separate continents, allowing as easily as possible to define the guidelines for further development in these areas. The draft law provides for the elimination of monopoly on the market. There is precisely defined in each segment of energy activity which conditions should be met by an energy entity in order to become an energy entity and to remain in that activity and continue to work. It's designed not to reach the monopoly. With respect to the principle of avoidance of discrimination and mutual subsidisation. The new Energy Act knows the categories of socially endangered consumers and takes special care of that category of end-users. This law must be something positive and something good. It is adapted to new energy requirements for the world's energy markets and as such will be in the service of ensuring Serbia's energy stability and energy security. With this law we boldly knock on the door and the opening of Chapter 15, which is related to energy in negotiations with the EU, which speaks unequivocally of the quality of this law. If we know how important it is for us to have membership in the energy community and the accession process of the Union, then the adoption of this law in this form is of real value on that path. Also, this law removes the observed shortcomings, both in production and distribution, in the supply of heat energy, as well as in the way in which the price is formed. I believe that this law will especially be enjoyed by investors who want to invest in renewable energy sources, because the difference between the previous law is seen in more precise and better regulated administrative procedures and the shortcomings in the issue of energy permits and the acquisition of the status of privileged electricity producers, and thus the investors themselves will get safer conditions for planning investments. I would like to point out that this law regulates a much better quality area as regards renewable energy sources, as well as that with this law and sublegal acts, which need to be passed after the adoption of this law, Serbia's energy efficiency will be raised to a higher level and we will be able to say, after 2016, that we are an energy-efficient country. This is a system law. I am free to say a modern law, because as such it has taken over specifics and members of modern laws from EU countries that are adapted to our conditions and available resources. Of course, one of the most important objectives of this Energy Law is the application of the third energy package, the European Parliament Directive and the Council on the single rules of the internal European electricity market, which came into force in March 2011. This law prescribes conditions and procedures for the acquisition of a privileged producer, a renewable energy producer and a temporary privileged producer. It is also important to point out that this law allows natural persons to acquire the status of a privileged electricity producer in installed power plants up to 30 kilowatts, which will certainly allow for a greater number of new jobs in the area of production and technical services. This will most reflect in less developed areas, where there are significant renewable energy potentials. During the drafting of this bill, in addition to all relevant facts in the field of energy, as well as public debate, consultations were held with the Southeast European Energy Community Secretariat, which expressed a positive opinion on this proposal on 6 November 2014. I'm not here to defend this law. He will defend himself with his own quality, but I am here to give him support, as I am supporting the government of Prime Minister Vukic, who today in the Tamnava – opened a new system in the Western field and saved the state about 40m euros, as five months before the start of the coal explosion from the Western field. In that name, the government and everyone in the government, I want a lot of happiness and success in the work, and I thank everyone present for the attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19078	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19079	The respected chairman, a respected minister, co-workers of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, has no doubt that the SNS in the voting day will support all proposed laws. First of all, I would like to refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Planning Act, which was already explained by my colleague, Authorised Proposer Katarina Rakic, and who pointed out that the question of amendments to Article 97. The law on planning and construction. Thus, the change of this member of the law achieves the attraction of economic investors, i.e. those who are willing to invest in production capacities, in warehouses, in underground floors, and will be exempt from taxes, i.e. contributions to the construction land. According to him, there will be an increase in the number of employees, i.e. by creating new businesses, there will be opportunities for the employment of Serbian citizens. Therefore, from this point of view, these amendments and the additions to the laws are very important and I must point out that the aim of the SNS is that all the laws that we are making, of course, are reform laws, the Law on Planning and Construction, but that laws must have a real basis and be realistic in real life, that citizens, investors, benefit from them. If citizens, investors benefit, then the state will certainly also have through taxes and contributions. I would like to point out that it is about amending and supplementing the Law on the registration of property rights on objects which are registered under special regulations, in fact it is about the ban on the destruction of objects which are in the legalisation process, that is to say, prohibiting the destruction of those objects which have entered the right of ownership of those objects in accordance with this law. Of course, the cataster notes that they are registered under the law and that a construction permit will be subsequently obtained. Therefore, the amendments and additions to both these laws, proposed by the SNS, are in the interests of citizens, are in the interest of economic development, are in the interest of investors and are in the interests of the functional state, i.e. in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. The law you would also refer to is the Energy Act. It is significant, above all, from the aspect of the implementation of the third package, i.e. the implementation of European regulations. It is significant from the point of view of the citizens, the end-user, or the energy user, of the ordinary man, for the reason that he will be able to choose who his supplier will be, he will be able to give up the supplier if he does not meet the conditions, without any charges and fees, the energy operator will have to notify him in due time and in time about the price change, the energy entity will be obliged to form an organisational unit, where the citizen, the consumer of electricity, will be able to lodge a complaint and that this complaint will require an explanation and a response to the complaint, except that the citizens will benefit from this law, because it will establish a clear procedure, clear administrative framework and investors will come much sooner to realize the investments that they otherwise planned in this segment. Of course, I would also like to refer to the confirmation of the agreement on the use of IPA funds for the reasons I believe that they and how significant they are from the aspect of the socio-economic development of our country from the aspect of strengthening all capacities of the Republic of Serbia with strengthening the democratic institutions of our country, from the aspect of strengthening the administration, from the aspect of strengthening regional integration, from the aspect of strengthening social policy, social protection, education, agriculture, rural development. Of course, the funds that can be withdrawn for the period 2014. In 2020, one and a half billion euros, the funds provided for 2014 are totalling 62m euros, and they are intended primarily to remove damage from the natural disaster, i.e. from the flood that hit us. In the end, I would just like to point out and thank Minister Jadranka Joksimovic and the Minister of Energy who, together with the complete government and, of course, led by Aleksandra Vukic, have shown great willingness to place themselves at the disposal of the citizens at the time of the great disaster that has hit our country, each from their point of view. I believe that through the withdrawal of funds from the IPA funds and how it can and should affect the improvement of the lives of citizens, i.e. the ordinary man of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19080	Thank you, Mrs. Jeftović Vukojčić. The word has a minister in the government, Miss Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19081	Thank you. It's just, it's true, you've really analyzed everything, and it's true from all the aspects that you've counted, IPA funds are important, IPA funds are only important, just one small correction, so for 2014, it's not a total of 62 million, it's only from the total amount intended for the recovery of flood effects, and we have 115 million more for various other reforms, just because of precision. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19082	The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Let Miodrag Lint prepare himself, who returned in the meantime, and is on the list. Here you go, Mr. Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19083	Dearly respected ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected colleagues, we bring an end to today's debate on very important laws, above all the Energy Act, one in a series of important laws that this government has proposed, which our Assembly is considering, trying to fix with its amendments, and then adopt, and we are simply on the right path to what has been promised and done, which is to introduce law in all areas of the country, because without legal norms, there is no state without rights, there are no citizens who will be able to live in accordance with the law. The Energy Act is certainly the roof law, the highest legal act in the area and as such is extremely important. By passing this law, it will certainly contribute to the better lives of citizens, easier work of the economy, better functioning of the state. This law will meet investment conditions for new jobs. What is very important is to introduce the possibility of two or more operators in the energy trade, in this case with electricity, that is, like. Telekom is extremely positive primarily for consumers, and I think that consumers, i.e. citizens, and business and legal persons, are certainly important and precisely this law, which, by some too large, and in our opinion is clear, accurate and accurate, 185, the 434 members are just talking about the careful and precise definition of all necessary legal standards so that this area, which is really important, above all, is in line with the needs of citizens in order for their needs to be in the right place, of course, at the same time the harmonisation of EU rules and laws. Simply, all these laws lead to one goal, which is to create a legally strong rule of law, and not only that, EU accession. What this law certainly provides, these are the conditions for opening the stock market, for trading energy, simply all that matters, is sublime in this law in these 185 pages, reform law anyway. It clearly prescribes powers, it's very important that the government has the power to protect the final buyer, and that it simply has this control role that, above all, the Ministry, but of course, the government comes above all of that. It is very important to say that, in defining the prices of heat and services, it is certainly important for citizens, I only have to read one piece of Article 362. – The Government shall adopt a methodology and set the price for the supply of the final consumer to heat energy, with the methodology set out in the terms of this article particularly governed by the elements for the calculation and method of determining the maximum amount of revenue for the performance of the production, distribution and supply of heat energy, the elements for calculating and calculating the price, access to the heat energy distribution system. The citizens will be safe and protected. It is the government that decides on the price-making methodology, where the energy entity carrying out the energy activity of the heat-energy supply determines the price of supply to final customers, but of course in accordance with the methodology set by the Government. What is very important is that the price of this member is agreed upon by the local self-government unit. The law ensures that the unit of local self-government and government still influences the price that citizens will have to pay to supply the final buyer, i.e. the supply of heat energy. When it comes to the responsibility mentioned in today's debate, we have to get back to it, at this point there's an active power line in Vinci, when we build some bridge, former regime members say they started the bridge, it doesn't matter what we built and let in, and when it comes to a power line in Vinci that's been given a solution to the Ministry of Environmental Protection since 31.12.2010, they claim they're not responsible for it. The question of responsibility when it comes to this authority and when it comes to this assembly will certainly not be brought, because we are responsible for what we have done and we are not going to ask, we will be responsible for what we decide. I must also point out in the amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction that there is a very incorrect change in the article relating to Article 97 and that the contribution to the planning of construction land is not accounted for for for public works, in public property, municipal and other infrastructure facilities, manufacturing and storage facilities, underground, floor buildings and wax construction, simply intended for garage vehicles, substations, trafo stations, storage, laundry, except for parts and underground floors used for commercial activities, open children's playgrounds, i.e. open sports fields and athletic routes. The simple collection of contributions to determine building land will not be for investors to build facilities where new jobs will be opened, where in the process of paying taxes and obligations on employees and earnings will certainly be in the extended effect, i.e. in the extension there will be the necessary revenues for the state, but what is important will be made possible to create new jobs and there is no need to hitchhike and for some criticism to criticise this member of the law. The fifth item of the agenda of today's session is certainly the most important at this time, regardless of what is in fifth place – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Commission on the rules and implementation of the European Union's financial assistance to the Republic of Serbia. I will not owe much on this agreement, but what is crucial is that this agreement shows that this ministry, this government and this prime minister are doing things that are in line with our goal, which is to join the EU as soon as possible. As an indication that we are on a good path, so is this Framework Agreement that we have received for consideration and which, hopefully, will be accepted very quickly, probably with support and positions and opposition. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19084	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. He's got a word like the last registered speaker, MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19085	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Joksimovic and other guests from the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about two points of today's agenda. The first concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. One of the big problems in this area is the fact that we have over a million and 300 thousand illegally built objects. Of that number, according to the previous Law on Planning and Construction, about 700,000 objects have been applied for legalisation, but we still have over 600,000 facilities for which there is no legalisation requirement. What is the purpose of this law that has been passed recently? All facilities, whether residential or business, cottages, auxiliary facilities, economic facilities, etc., should be entered in the cadastre and the owners of these facilities know that these facilities are now treated in accordance with the law. However, it should be kept in mind that it is only partial legalisation or cadastar records. In addition to each such facility, there is one observation that these persons, owners of these facilities, did not pay compensation for the construction land, did not pay compensation for the supply of municipal infrastructure and did not pay various taxes and fees. What is very important is to point out that this is now an opportunity to try to find a mechanism to encourage the owners of these millions and 300,000 illegal objects to do both final or final legalisation, which means they have paid the costs related to obtaining a building and use permit. I welcome the amendments and additions of this law, primarily because of the fact that there were in practice a lot of examples of abuse by inspection services that are in both variants, and of persons already enrolled in the cadastre and those who have not yet applied for it, made solutions to the destruction of these objects. It's really unacceptable and this change has a lot of justification, because no object will be able to collapse without a proper solution by a competent instance. In what way could it be encouraged that all these citizens who have illegal facilities, who will enroll property rights in the cadastre, but that will be a partial legalisation, to do final legalisation? I would like to remind the public in Serbia that over half a million expelled persons live here from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH, that there are over 200,000 expelled persons, or internally displaced persons from the area of KIM, and that we have indeed a large number of citizens from the ranks of the local population in a difficult socio-economic situation. What's my suggestion? I propose that an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction be adopted to ensure that these three categories of citizens - refugees, expelled persons from Croatia and the Federation of BiH and internally displaced with KIM and a significant number of citizens from the private population, receive a discount for final legalisation. Namely, to decide that when local self-government determines a fee for paying building land, for municipal infrastructure, to say: for these three categories of persons will be a 50% discount from the price set by local self-government. For example, a 200-square house, which was built, for example, on the New Sad periphery, final legalisation costs about 2,000 euros. What's an additional suggestion is that this discount applies to the first 100 squares. So, to take into account the situation and the way these people came, that they were expelled from their neighborhoods, to take into account the local population that has illegally built buildings and to say – for the first 100 squares of housing there will be 50% discount, for other squares, if the house is 200 squares, the owner will pay the full price, as well as the other citizens, from 100 to 200 squares. I think that in this way we would send a strong message to these categories of citizens, that the state would consider their difficult situation, on the one hand, that it had in mind the way they came to Serbia and that it would repay them and show one understanding because of the tragedy they had experienced. This proposal is good from another point of view. In fact, it will encourage a large number of these people in these categories to decide to do that final legalisation, to say – this costs 2,000 euros, I'm now getting a discount, it's going to be a thousand euros, I'm going to pay it and become the right owner, or that I can alienate that house, or I can raise a loan, start some kind of production activity or something like that. I think that would be one just and good thing for these citizens. Also, in the end, I would like to remind Serbia's public about a problem that exists. In fact, the funds of international organisations have been built in the past 20 years around 3,500 housing facilities to address the problems of refugees and internally displaced persons. Under the May 2010 Refugees Act, about 3,000 owners of these housing units have the right to purchase. This right of redemption only does not have 530 families whose funds were made through the SIRP funds, i.e. the funds of the Italian Government. I think it's an injustice that you have to say you have in one Nis building, let's conditionally say the German governments and that these people haven't paid rent in years and that they now have the right to ransom, and that these same people, these same population in the building next to this building that was built by the Italian government, paid a large rent and they still don't have the right to buy those apartments. I appeal to the government's competent ministers, Mrs. Mihajlović, Mr. Vujovic, Mr. Vulin, to try to find a solution and to equate these people in our rights. It's the same thing when you have three kids and now you buy shoes for two kids, and you don't buy a third kid shoes. So either you have the same relationship with everyone that no one has the right to buy out of those 3,500 families or they all have the right to ransom. I think it's a relatively easy thing to solve and that with a little bit of will I think we can correct that injustice against 530 families, the user of the sirp program. I would like to remind you that in this 530 family group, we have 20% of the local population, the socially endangered population who also support this initiative, and would really be grateful to the competent ministers that this problem is resolved after six years of agony. In the end, I just want to say that in the voting day, I will support this package of legislative proposals because I think it is good and contributes to further affirmation of government policy aimed at creating an orderly, modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19086	Thank you, Mr. Linta. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19087	I really don't want to use your time much longer, really respecting the time we spent in this debate and the quality of the debate. First of all, I will be free to thank you both on behalf of my colleague Joksimovic and on behalf of my colleague, Udovici, who was with us a good part of today's debate, for an extremely good and constructive debate on the set of legal proposals that were on the agenda today. Of course, we also respect the critical tones that were today and in the processing of the amendments that the MPs have submitted now, we will try, of course, to make an analysis where there is room for improvement of legal projects, we will do it without any doubt. Once again, thank you for a quality debate, a useful debate for all of us, and I'll see you in the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-26-0.u19088	Thank you, Mr. Antic. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals set out in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. Continued session Sunday 28 December 2014 at 09.00 hours in details at points one to four. Thank you.
