ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 123 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Aleksandar Jablanovic, Branko Ružic, Suzana Spasojevic and Olgica Batic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extraordinary for Monday, past those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda acts set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of the promoters, Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, I have also called for meetings of Dusan Protic, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Marija Vukinić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dusica Djordjevic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Vladan Radisavljević, Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the invitation of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been sent to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 the following was defined: Proposal for a consumer protection law; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Electronic Communications Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents; 5. Proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014; 6. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. National MP Meho Omerovic, based on Article 92(2), Article 157(2) and (2). 191 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: - a joint principled search be carried out on: a proposal for a consumer protection law, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services and - a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan for the application of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. Does MP Meho Omerovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – five, abstentions – there is no vote, 18 of the total of 169 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 3, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2804	President-in-Office, in accordance with Article 97. Rules of Procedure, I suggest we extend the time of debate to these three points of the agenda, which we have just united in a single debate. Generally, all our laws came to us on Friday afternoon, the session was scheduled, I don't know how many MPs had the opportunity to read them, but in any case, the first law that has here has over 260 pages and points 2 and 3 of the agenda has nothing in common, except that the same minister, in this case the Deputy Prime Minister, has been appointed to represent the Government. I think by extending time, they would give MPs the opportunity to discuss quality of all the points that are foreseen by uniting the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2805	MP Marko Djurisic suggested a longer debate in principle. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. Does the proposing representative Dr. Rad Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications want a word? The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2806	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as you have seen before you, are three legislative proposals. One is the adoption of a completely new law and two amendments and additions to existing legal solutions. Let me give in the shortest lines some of the most basic elements for the new Consumer Protection Act. This is unfortunately the fourth law since 2002, which we have passed in this area, which on the one hand confirms that this is a dynamic area that is changing very quickly, not only with us, but also European consumer rights suffers very fast and frequent changes. The last law, which was passed in 2010, which began to apply in 2011, provided a wide enough framework for the protection of consumer rights, installed all standards in accordance with the 15 directives, until then the existing European Union, and could be said in a formal legal sense that it provided a fully satisfactory framework for consumer rights protection. Unfortunately, practice has shown, as with many of our laws, that the laws go in the road, life and practice go in the woods. In other words, the law was inapplicable in many of its segments and the effective protection of consumers was not to the extent that the law had been foreseen. The reason for this is that there were no clear mechanisms and instruments to protect consumer rights and, on the other hand, the lack of an institutional framework for their protection. These two elements greatly influenced the fact that the law does not apply in practice. On the other hand, we also had a situation where the case law as a final form of protection has not been brought to life and we do not have a case law when we talk about consumer rights. It happened, when we have a dispute between consumers and traders, that the consumer asks the consumer for advice from the consumer protection organisation what to do in case of incompatibility of goods, or goods that do not comply with what the trader has shown or said is a commodity of that quality. If the trader does not respond to that request, the consumer remains left with the out-of-court solution to seek a way out of the situation or to initiate a judicial dispute. Since the litigation takes a very long time, it is too expensive, consumers have usually dropped out of suing and therefore the case law does not practically exist. Given that, we wanted to make certain changes to this law. That's why the plan was to fix the existing text of the law with amendments and additions. Meanwhile, new European Union directives on this area have emerged. One on consumer rights in 2011, and the other on alternative consumer dispute resolution from last year, which we should have incorporated into the text of the new legislative proposal. The public debate has shown that what we received from the professional public, consumer protection organisations, we should change more than 50% of the provisions of the applicable law, which means that by law we had to pass a new consumer protection law. We count that we have given existing, or proposed legal solutions enough instruments and mechanisms to make this protection far more effective than it is now. We now have several levels of protection. The first level will be to keep the national register of consumer complaints, where we will be able to keep records through that system, collect all information and resolve consumer disputes. The second, perhaps the most important mechanism of protection, is to strengthen administrative and legal protection, which so far did not exist, which means that powers are given to the competent ministry so that it can carry out administrative procedures, in particular to protect the collective interests of consumers, which are two of the most important things – unfair business practices and unfair contractual provisions. We are counting on that very mechanism of efficiency to be achieved in this way, that is, by introducing this legal provision. The third level of protection concerns what has not existed so far within this scope, which is that we return some of the powers of market inspection that have been taken away from the previous law and will be able to impose misdemeanors, or fines for offenders in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of this law. We will seek to affirm the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes, and in accordance with the recently passed Mediation Act, or intermediation. What is a newspaper is that we give consumers organisations and associations the opportunity, especially those who are registered, to have an adequate degree of legitimacy to submit requirements for determining the collective interest of consumer protection, and judicial protection certainly remains as a measure unless all previous mechanisms give their results. This is a comprehensive package that we believe will make the law much more operational, more efficient, more effective than it's ever been before. Also, what is a newspaper, which may be of greater interest to the public, concerns the terms of the deadlines, we specify the provisions of that law. The possibility, i.e. the right of the consumer to give up distance shopping within 14 days without any further explanation or reason, if that is the case. The time limit for advertising is reduced from 15 days to eight days. If incompatibility occurs within six months, the consumer can replace the goods, seek replacement goods or refund money. So far, it has been the case that the trader usually offers repairs, and now it is possible to repair with the express consent of consumers. The delivery deadline is 30 days. If that does not happen, the consumer may request the return of money from the trader unless otherwise, by means of a contract or agreement, it is not settled. There's a whole series of other newspapers, the truth, the less important. The whole set of laws we tried to fix and comply with the European Union directives, but there is essentially no big difference, except those in relation to the previous law. What may be most important, in terms of court practice, or judicial protection, is to abolish court fees for consumer disputes of less than 500,000 dinars. It is likely that this has so far been the reason why consumers have not resorted to lawsuits and seeking justice in court. Because these disputes, like I said, are expensive and long. Consumers are now released from the payment of a court fee unless the value of the dispute exceeds 500,000 dinars and we believe that it will make it more effective for existing court practice. Penalties for not implementing the law remain the same, identical to those of previous legal solutions. I also have to say that we had two public hearings. One was when we talked about changes and additions to this law. It lasted a month with the participation of all stakeholders, primarily the Consumer Protection Association, and since we had an earlier inherited project, the IPA project, the EU, the EU experts were all involved in the drafting of the text of this law. Also, we had another public debate over the adoption of a brand-new law. We have tried more and less to put in place all the proposals that have come, especially from the professional public and consumer protection organisations, and we have finally received a positive opinion from the European Commission that the provisions of this law are in line with European consumer law. As regards the other two legislative proposals, i.e. the amendment and addition of the existing two laws, these amendments have a unique four objectives, although these are two legislative proposals. First of all, we wanted to put two regulatory agencies together in one way so far. Therefore, RATEL, i.e. as the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications and RAKUS as a Postal Traffic Agency, will in the future be one agency that will deal with the same activities, meaning that RATEL is also taking over this post office, which means that it will take over for the next three months employees, documents, archives and items and everything RAKUS has done so far. To be clear, this will not produce enormous financial savings because RATEL takes over the employees, but instead of two services of general service and one agency and another, we will have one service, instead of two directors, we will have one director. So it's not a big savings, but it's a system arrangement when we talk about the work of independent regulatory agencies. The second reason, most importantly, at this point, why we decided to amend above all the Law on Electronic Communications, concerns the necessity of compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. In 2010, as I recall, the Constitutional Court ruled that certain provisions of this law were unconstitutional. Why? Because it is a violation of the right to the secrecy of communication in electronic business, in electronic form. In other words, every operator has an obligation to keep the so-called. Withholded data and kept for 12 months. The data had so far been able to use security services and the MUP, and that provision was declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional because the principle of confidentiality of information and secrecy of communication is being violated. With these changes, these data are now going to be so-called. The reserved data can only be used with the court's decision if it is necessary to conduct criminal proceedings and protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia and only in these situations in a limited period of time, and there will be records of all requests for access to such information so that the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter and other Regulatory Authorities will also have the opportunity to see and learn about all these requests made to telecommunications operators and that is the key thing to amend and supplement this law. The third reason lies in the need to reiterate once again the need to introduce technological neutrality in radio spectrum, which will practically mean a lot to mobile operators because they will be able to use new technologies in the existing spectrum. So far, some lawyers have said that there is no reason for this particular emphasis in this law, that there has been a basis so far. We felt that we should stress this in order to remove any suspicion and that individual operators who had already planned to invest significant resources in new technologies and development would be able to do so. So we expect new investments in this respect and of course what is particularly important, competition among existing mobile operators. The fourth reason for these changes concerns speeding up the digitisation process. As you have seen in the text of the proposal, there is a member who is also a legal basis to help those citizens who do not have digital receivers by introducing and installing so-called. Sethoboxes, special devices can monitor and accept and receive a digital signal. All EU countries have done so, all countries in the region and depending on financial opportunities, we will see which includes the population, i.e. the number of people that will need assistance in providing these setsoboxes. We are prepared to listen to all suggestions, all suggestions and, of course, to accept any solution that we believe together will improve and improve the texts of these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2807	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2808	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will speak as an authorised representative of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure, on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications and Change and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services. These are also the laws discussed by the committee responsible. The amendments and additions of these two laws lead in the same direction, namely the merger of two agencies that were created in the proposals of these two laws into one. The government of the Republic of Serbia has referred us to consider amending and supplementing this law by an urgent procedure, assessing that the merger of these two agencies into one will achieve greater rationality and efficiency in the work of these two agencies. By the way, in August 2012, the government gave the competent ministries to review the work of certain agencies within their competences and to carry out an assessment of which of the agencies in their portfolio should remain, i.e. which are profitable and which are not cost-effective. Another reason for joining these two agencies into one is the practice of other countries in Europe, where these two agencies are joined into one. We heard that only practice is still in Macedonia that two agencies are divided into these two areas. As regards the very law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, the first amendments certainly relate to the very name of the Agency, as well as the competences attached to this Agency. The so far Republic Agency for Electronic Communications or for a short period of time RATEL has been established by the Law on Electronic Communications, amending its name to the Republic of the electronic communications and postal services agency. The newly established agency, in addition to the responsibilities so far carried by RATEL, will be joined by the powers given by the Postal Service Act. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, in addition to agreeing to the name of the Agency itself, I would like to refer to a few more details that are interesting, which the minister pointed out in his opening statement, and I would also like to point out once more in front of the Committee. One of the major changes is the amendment adopted by Article 20, which introduces a new member of 104a into the basic text of the Bill's proposal, which refers to support in the purchase of television signal digitisation equipment. In fact, the Republic of Serbia, like other countries in Europe, has accepted the Law on Confirmation of Final Acts of the Regional Conference on Radio-communications planned for the digitisation of the Earth's broadcasting service, accepted the obligation to switch from analogue to digital television by 17 June 2015. With this in mind, we conclude that all households that depend exclusively on the earth’s transmission of television signals will have to obtain equipment that will enable them to receive a digital signal. The amendments I mentioned, which provide for the addition of a new member of 104a, were designed to help, more specifically to establish the criteria and measures to support those who will need assistance, i.e. Those who won't be able to get their own equipment for receiving a digital signal. In fact, those households who, due to different socio-economic factors, are unable to obtain the appropriate equipment for receiving the digital signal themselves, if they come into a situation that they have to switch exclusively to a digital signal, and they will not be able to provide it themselves, will certainly be further socially endangered and fully placed on the sidelines of society. In order to avoid this situation, the Social Integration and Poverty Prevention Team of the Government of Serbia together with the relevant ministries developed a strategy, namely a study called - a proposal for potential models of aid in the digitalisation of land television in the Republic of Serbia and an example of practices from neighbouring countries. The above study identified endangered categories and provided specific models of recommendations to assist these households in the digitisation process. The final source of funding, as well as the total resources that will be needed, are also planned for this Article 20, which was added to the law. The government is scheduled to pass a regulation under which the proposal will be put into the 2015 budget, which will serve precisely this purpose that I have stated. In addition to these financial resources, which will be planned for this purpose, for the acquisition of digitisation equipment, these amendments and additions to both laws are no longer planned any funds that would burden the additional budget of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the Proposal for amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, I would like to highlight further amendments concerning the Article. 22nd and 23rd. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2809	Time, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2810	As in authorized?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2811	Yeah. You can finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2812	Since I don't have any more time, then I'd just like to say that the board has accepted these two draft laws in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2813	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2814	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that the Parliament Club, of course, will in principle support all three legislative proposals that we are considering today. Therefore, it is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Postage Services, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications and the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act. As regards the first two legislative proposals, you spoke of this in the opening statement, essentially looking at the changes and additions of these two legislative proposals are necessary in order to create one legal framework and one legal basis for the implementation of the merger of two regulatory bodies or two independent agencies so far. Of course, you said that, it's about the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications and the Republic postal service agency. So the bottom line is that instead of the two regulatory bodies so far, we will have an independent regulatory body that will deal with this extremely important and important work, with very clearly defined objectives, which is primarily efficiency in the work of the national authorities, on the one hand. On the other hand, you said, among other things, that there will be no large savings, but we do have that goal which will be achieved by adopting these amendments and additions and one and another legislative proposal, which is the rationality of labour costs. It is true that the EU directive requires the existence of an independent regulatory body to deal with this business, but it is true among other things that European practice is such that most European states, but most countries also lack two regulatory bodies in the environment. I think two regulatory bodies at the moment, when it comes to, say, countries in the environment, besides Serbia, have Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia. Mostly all countries have an independent and professional and regulatory body that deals with this extremely important and important work. The amendments and additions to the legislative proposals we are talking about today are heading towards something that is European practice, on the other hand, because of the need for savings. In the next period of time, all activities related to this activity will be carried out in one regulatory body, one agency, and not as it has been in two regulatory agencies so far. So this is actually two professional regulatory functions that have very related and very similar goals. What I must certainly say at the beginning of today's presentation is that there is one negative mood, one negative attitude of citizens, to the very mention of agencies or to the evaluation of some new agencies in Serbia. This mood and attitude should be understood primarily in the context, as during 2013, we had between 130 and 170 agencies at Serbia level and the state of Serbia spent around 820m euros on the agency. They are not citizens directly, but in one indirect way through taxes, through accusations and citizens they have funded the work and existence of these agencies. Today, in a period of economic crisis, when we say that saving has to and should be a priority, we always go from the point of view that it cannot be saved where it is not, but must be saved where it is. So, savings, rationalisation at the state level must and should be a priority, not savings on citizens, because citizens' living standards at this point, unfortunately, are not at an envious level. These amendments, these two legislative proposals that we are talking about today, are actually institutionally defined by an authority that will deal with these extremely important and important tasks over the next period of time. As I said, in one place all the activities that are related to this activity will be regulated. What is certainly an extenuating circumstance, you spoke of among other things in the opening statement, both agencies that we are bringing together at this point have in the humane sense the skills and in the technical sense the ability to continue work. Now what's most important in the opinion of the Parliament Club. So, at the very beginning of the establishment of an independent regulatory body, it is very important to ensure professionalism and it is very important to ensure the independence of this regulatory body. For a little while, I said that the very negative mood of the citizens is when it comes to the establishment of a new agency. For the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, it is true that we are talking today about establishing a new agency, but we are talking about the merger of two existing agencies, agencies that finance themselves from cash compensation, from operators, from imposition, from high penalties. I would like to say that here it is a matter of establishing an agency that will not be an additional cost and a burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, when it comes to employees who will work at a newly established agency, this will certainly be the priority of existing personnel capacities already held by two agencies that exist at the moment, and this is about the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications and the Republic Postage Services Agency. What makes certain misunderstandings about us as a Parliament club is two things, and between these two things one can in some way draw a parallel. So the telecommunications market is definitely one of the most dynamic with an incredible trend of growth in the next period of time. At this point I'm talking about two legislative proposals heading towards the creation of a truly powerful agency. Powerful in terms of, say, the type of value, this agency will control around 100m euros in the next time period with a further trend of growth. The first question, i.e. the first question, is, therefore, that we are talking about agencies that want to finance in the next period of time themselves and, above all, from compensation from the operator, from leases, from penalties, from taxis, but on the other hand, it is logical that there is one kind of rational and domestic behaviour towards the funds that the agency will collect in the next period of time. It's perfectly logical, at least the opinion of the SPS Parliament Club, that one part of the funds should be channelled into the republican budget. Imagine, a paradoxical situation for courts to collect taxes and for the total amount they collect from tax to be directed towards some of their own personal needs. The second question and the second thing that we think is very important and I think it's good to get an answer to this question in today's debate, do we have a situation, this question is very similar to the first one, do we maybe have a situation where we give a small number of people to decide without, in a way, making control? So, not by going into it to disrupt professionalism and not by going into it to disrupt the independence of the regulatory agency's work for an advanced period of time. What I also want to say when it comes to these two legislative proposals, and among other things you spoke about in the opening statement, so there was a public debate, a quality public debate, quality public consultation, and that is absolutely justified, of course, and very positive, we point out that as very positive, to hear the opinion of both professional and general public. What is also very important is one part of these suggestions and a proposal that could be heard during the public debate, and I had the opportunity to see it, among other things, being implemented in these legislative proposals. If we are talking about what will in some way be the positive effects of adopting these two legislative proposals, or if we are talking about the justification of adopting these two legislative proposals, it is certain that the positive effects of the next time period will primarily be the users themselves, when I say users think of the economy, I think of the citizens, it is certain that these changes will benefit the public postal operator in the coming time period, but it is certain that the benefit will also be given to the state itself. When it comes to users, I said I was thinking about citizens, I mean businesses, through incentives for competitiveness, citizens will have the opportunity for financial services at competitive prices. Of course, this competitiveness will also allow for better quality. Getting ready for the discussion, I had the opportunity to look at some data that say there are a large number of settlements in Serbia at the moment, a large number of municipalities that do not have bank branches. Which means that citizens are allowed the right to use payment services. I think there's about 650 places there's no bank branches, but they have units of a public postal operator. So, these changes, we certainly allow all citizens without any kind of discrimination to have the possibility of using payment services. On the other hand, when it comes to the positive effects on the work of the public postal operator, therefore, these changes and additions are given to the public postal operator certain new competences. It will be able to do some new jobs in the next period of time, financial services, insurance, etc. It is certain that, with existing capacities, with existing logistics, existing infrastructure, public postal operators will be able to make far greater profits in the coming period. What I want to say when it comes to the very work of a public postal operator, it is very important that at this point, according to some surveys, a public postal operator is a symbol of accessibility and security in terms of providing services. As far as the state itself is concerned, it gives one support to the financial inclusion, that all citizens, there will be no kind of discrimination, all citizens will be able to use payment services equally, and that is very important for us, that you said the availability of payment services for the entire population, financial security, the ability to manage their own resources. At the very end when it comes to these first two laws, you pointed out that it was very important. I fully agree with you, therefore, among other things when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, one of the essential reasons for adopting these amendments and additions is to conform, to certain provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia since 2010, and to the provisions, to the members concerning the retention of data. In 2010, the Constitutional Court said that these provisions and members were unconstitutional, i.e. they did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's very good that today we are finally agreeing and supplementing these decisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that is, through this debate, through the beginning of the debate, we are actually implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the third legislative proposal, the third in a row, not in the order of importance, it is the proposal for a consumer protection law. During last year, 2013, a public debate was held on the subject of the draft amendments and addition of the Consumer Protection Act, and this public debate is precisely why we today have a comprehensive consumer protection law. In that regard, the public debate showed through the scope of the remarks, through the number of suggestions and suggestions that could be heard, that about half of the members of the provisions, as I understand it, should have been either amended or amended. In a situation where more than half of the members or the provisions of a law must and should be amended, the legislator’s position is certainly justified to focus on writing a new law, rather than to make changes and supplement the existing one. This public debate has made it very clear that Serbia needs a quality, modern, efficient law that will, above all, arrange a very dynamic area and precisely because of this dynamicity, it is very important that we have a precise and clearly defined way of acting. We really want to believe that this legislative proposal will protect consumers in the right way, that consumers will have better and faster protection, but on the other hand, we also believe that this legislative proposal will not go on burdens and to the detriment of traders. When it comes to traders themselves, we think that they should bear in mind that they are much more common consumers than traders, and if their business is based on this basis, I am convinced that in the coming time period we will surely find some kind of compromise, some consensus, with a serious and quality legal framework. A consensus that will not disturb the interests of traders, but, on the other hand, will not disrupt the interests of consumers. You said – the current law was passed in 2010, and I can't say, looking at the content of that law, that we had a bad law. I completely agree with you. So we had one law which is one qualitative shift in terms of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, but also in terms of better consumer protection. What is evident and clear and what has been shown by the public debate is that this law was in practice not applicable, or most of its members. If we were to compare today's legislative proposal that we are starting the debate today and the current law, then we could certainly say that the law that we are talking about today is both more comprehensive and more specific and more precise, that it is applicable in practice, because it removes all those doubts, all those provisions that existed in the implementation of the law, and on the other hand it also highlights the instruments of the new institution that will strengthen the legal certainty or the legal framework of our country. You were talking about newspapers being introduced by this bill, which are expected to have positive effects. I will not repeat what you said, but I fully agree that the regulation of a special process of collective consumer protection by the Ministry is and will enable the prevention of unfair business practices, will also allow the prevention of unfair contractual provisions, as well as other provisions protecting consumer interests. Also, this law strengthens the organisational capacity of consumer organisations, and that is very important, with a clear goal of strengthening and strengthening a consumer movement, which will again have clear consumer protection instruments. It is good, and we think it also promises that market inspection is being restored to certain responsibilities and, above all, in the area of unfair business practice and not market contractual obligations, which will certainly enable better protection of consumers' interests. Also, new consumer protection instruments in the non-judicial solution of consumer disputes are very important and, of course, farthest possible is the national register of consumer complaints. So this is the introduction of a new means that will allow one new policy to be run as a system for collecting, recording and resolving consumer disputes. At the very end, therefore, I will say once again because of all of the above, the SPS parliamentary clubs in the voting day want to support all three legislative proposals. We have submitted a number of amendments as a Parliament club, above all to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. We will take part in the debate in particular, of course the objective of making amendments is that we may, in a qualitative sense, further correct existing legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2815	The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2816	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the SVM Group, to present our sighting first of all of the Consumer Protection Act. We have heard why it is necessary to adopt a brand new Consumer Protection Act from a legal point of view, and why it is necessary for real life is because we and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are almost daily in the role of consumers and for all of us and for all of them it is of paramount importance to protect their rights. They also heard this from Mr. Minister's presentation, and we see in practice, that it became clear that the sanctions that were currently in force in the 2010 law have become, in that way, inconclusive traders, inadequate and inadequate, very often. What may be the biggest problem is that the current market surveillance is in the hands of several institutions. Consumers themselves in practice have a problem not knowing who to turn to, when they think their rights should be protected. The fact that it is a very weak systematernative dispute resolution, we heard, and that should lead to consumers going to court, but it is extremely expensive, long-term, inadequate, and eventually they give up. What I would like to remind all of you at the very beginning of the presentation is that my esteemed colleague, Mr Zoltan Peck, in the middle of last year, in fact at the end of May 2013, when we were here on the day to answer parliamentary questions about the topic, we talked about a very difficult economic situation, he then on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, asked a question about consumer protection and attention to everyone he had just asked that question, to the inadequate quality of the product, and that our shops, butts, if we were talking about clothing, clothes, but only to return to clothes, clothes, they are full of unquality products, I don't say Chinese goods, and he said it very vividly then in asking questions, that it happens that citizens who are in a very difficult social situation are buying cheap shoes and during the first raining for two months that we should be able to do so. To ensure a certain quality, respect for quality standards, because maybe citizens think that cheap product is appropriate for them, but this does not mean cheap product. We heard in the opening statement that one of the biggest problems with the application of this law in practice is the lack of a functional institutional framework, as well as the very weak coordination of bodies in charge of protecting consumer rights and their work. The European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in European integration in the past few, more specifically in the past two years, stresses that the Consumer Protection Act 2010 was passed, good, and that it normally provides consumer rights. However, due to an inadequate mechanism for the protection and enforcement of consumer rights in practice, these rights have been prevented. So what is encouraging and positive based on research is that there is an increased awareness of the citizens themselves, who are consumers in their rights, but the big problem of accessing the courts on their part, due to ineffectiveness and very high costs, which the court proceedings are taking away. We know that consumer disputes are mostly disputes of extremely low value. So judicial protection is a complicated practice. What's good and what's this consumer protection bill that we're discussing today is that it is now offering a wider range of monitoring to inspection bodies and it is important to improve the extrajudicial resolution of consumer disputes. I would remind all of us of the fact that the level of well-being of consumers themselves, closely linked, if I may say so, with the protection of competition, and it is extremely important that consumer rights and consumer interests are put first in order to protect competition. The aim of the adoption of consumer law is to protect their rights. What are the rights? These are basic consumer rights, the right to satisfy basic needs, the right to their security, and they need to feel safe on the market, have the right to free choice of products, including services, the right to information, legal protection and similar rights. One reason for this new law is the establishment of a body to resolve consumer disputes by means of an out-of-court procedure, which is significant and should ensure more effective and better implementation of legal solutions. The SVM parliamentary club stresses and supports full harmonisation of rights with the EU. The regulation of a special procedure for collective consumer protection will be made possible quickly, hopefully faster and more effective prevention of unfair business practices and unfair contractual provisions, as we heard from the Minister. More importance should be given to associations and associations to protect consumers. Several previous speakers mentioned that the first level adopted by this law is the introduction of the national consumer complaint register to collect complaints from consumers who are indeed the real source of information. It is not easy to talk about three draft laws in a short time, he did not talk about newspapers only and did not talk about a contract through long-distance communications, or very briefly about deadlines. Of course, from the consumer's point of view it's good to shop remotely, because that means that the consumer should not go to the trader, but rather make the purchase quickly and easily. On the other hand, the sale outside the retailer's business premises can be very aggressive and unpleasant for consumers, because we have probably all had experience with merchants who so insist on buying products, that the consumer does not know how to defend themselves from them, and in the end maybe buys something he doesn't need, for which there is no need. It is significant that this changes, i.e. to facilitate the situation of consumers. They probably all have experience, and even citizens to keep ringing phones we get e-mails with different offers, what the law says is that when someone on the phone or some similar channels of communication tries to reach the consumer, they are obliged to present themselves and say why they are on the phone, and that is solely because of the purchase, and if the consumer does not want to participate, it can interrupt that conversation. I'd like to go back to a little European law. In European law, the right of consumers to a period of second thought has been established and it is, in fact, a period during which the consumer can, without any sanctions or without reason, give up the contract. Returning goods to a trader within this legal period is considered, in fact, a timely declaration of withdrawal from the contract. There was talk here and lack of decency. The lack of competence, as the contract for this purchase of goods or services, is where these goods or services are not of adequate quality, do not correspond to the purposes for which the consumer has obtained them. Perhaps one of the most significant and positive newspapers of this law, which SM certainly supports, is that it has been introduced that up to the first six months the consumer can choose between the requirement to remove the indiscretion of the goods by replacing or by corresponding price reduction or simply to state that the contract is terminated. So if that happens in the first six months of the purchase of goods, the consumer doesn't have to wait for it to be fixed. A minimum possibility has only been left if the consumer explicitly agrees with the need for repairs, but it is important that the law does not now make him wait for those repairs that never end. What's negative and what practice has shown is that you too, as we have called them, unconscious traders abuse the deadline for advertising. There was really no need, and there was a lot going on to take advantage of that maximum 15-day deadline to respond to the ads. It's a good thing this new law is now reducing that marketing deadline from 15 days to eight days. What is also not mentioned, and the significant thing is that it happens very often to buy secondhand goods. When buying second-hand goods, the consumer may choose between work or replacement, and where not possible, it means neither the business nor the replacement of that product, or the goods, the consumer has the right to either lower the price or to terminate the contract. What this law refers to and what everyone faces are services of general economic interest. These are electronic communications services, distribution of electricity, gas, heat, drinking water supply and transport of passengers in public transport. It is significant that everyone has the right to provide these services regularly of general interest and the availability and accessibility of these services is simply necessary for a normal life. That's why there's the most complaints here, and they're very common. It is therefore important that this law stipulates that traders providing services of economic interest are obliged to form consumer advertising commissions and that they must also be representatives of registered associations and alliances within these commissions. We know what's been going on in the past with power bills, and now there's a lot going on in certain local self-governments, for example. in Zrenjanin, in the city where I come from, talking about a new way of charging heat. This also causes citizens' fear because there are some stories that these accounts will be in winter for several thousand dinars more than they are right now, if not two, three times bigger, and during the summer months, when it's not the warm season, they'll stay almost the same as they are now or they'll just be cut in half. It is therefore important that this bill also mentions citizens who are in a difficult social situation and leaves the minister with an adequate way to get both heat energy and gas and electrical energy, electronic communications, all that is necessary today for normal life. The last or last thought I would like to make here on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group concerns consumer protection, the exercise of the right of travel contract, as this is also important and very relevant in the summer months, and also within this chapter of the proposed law and special rights of students, or students staying abroad and staying with families. It is good that more and more children have the opportunity to learn about the culture of other countries and learn language. It's important that they come back here and we get me a job here. It is good that this law emphasizes that these hosts should treat them as guests of their children and help them to learn both the cultures and customs of that other country where they are. As far as tourist trips are concerned, someone would ask why this is important and why it is necessary for consumers, customers and services to respect everything in the contract. This is because some citizens really work very hard throughout the year and work very hard for very small salaries and then make themselves a tourist trip of seven, ten or fifteen days and if they are already paying for a view of the sea or adequate accommodation with air conditioning etc., it is important that this is respected on the occasion of this bill that it is important that, if these offered services are not respected, they have the right, if they get an alternative offer, to accept this offer, if it is of greater value, you can pay, if it is less value, to get a later price difference, but if they are not satisfied, it is a third option to request the full amount paid to the organiser on the basis of the contract. For the partial execution of the organisation's contractual obligation or delay, that is, the consumer has the right to request that everything he has paid the organiser be returned and, most importantly, may also require compensation for the damage if it is unsatisfactory. Certainly, we welcome sanctioning the business of organisers who completely ignore consumer objections. Prior to the final provisions of this bill, it is stressed that consumer protection cannot be adequate if it is carried out only at the central level, but that both autonomous province and local self-government units must be involved in this business, be active and protect the rights and interests of consumers. As regards the consumer protection law proposal, comprehensively, this consumer protection law is a prerequisite for strengthening consumer rights and interests, but what is more significant is the need for effective application of this law and this is exactly one way to start competition, innovation and economic growth. This is why the SVM parliamentary group supports this proposal. As for the other two amendments and additions to the law, we support them, of course, but I would stress only in sentence and by that the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications is necessary first because of compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. It is good that this has now reached us and because of the elimination of discrimination. In the 20th century, we really need to move even faster towards digitization. We know that no funds have been provided for this now, but that this is planned for the 2015 budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2817	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2818	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must begin by saying once again that we have a debate today on the laws we received on Friday afternoon, a session scheduled Friday after the end of the new working time of the state authorities. I think a small number of MPs have been able to get acquainted with the content of the law. Reading the reasons for the emergency procedure, I couldn't see what was the reason for all these laws being passed by emergency procedure, and I find it particularly interesting with these other two laws that say that the reason for the emergency procedure is that the law determines the new regulatory body. I don't see what's urgent here, by passing one law that determines that body, then it explains the urgent procedure for the adoption of another law. I mean, that's one bad practice. I'm afraid we're going to face this practice a lot in the coming weeks ahead, given that there are always some new reform laws that can't be reached. I say so first and foremost because, if we go about the Consumer Protection Act, it is one law that has been prepared in the term of the previous Government. So there was a public debate, the minister himself said at the end of last year, that is, during last year. There is a clue about this public debate, there are opinions that participants then gave to the draft law. At one point, the ministry decided, and I think it's right, since a large number of members of the law needed to be changed, to go with the new law's proposal. Then the minister said -- there was a public debate, but by trying to get everyone to give opinions. So it's not a public debate, it is, okay. But we haven't been able to find a trace of that public debate in documents that we were able to access in these two days, Saturday and Sunday, and that's online. I think it is a shame to continue with this practice, where it is not in line with the proposal, that is, what is set out in the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is that all laws are under public debate. I don't think that was the case here, and it's bad if it goes on with that practice. The minister himself said in his statement that this is the fourth law and that we have often been in a position to adopt solutions that may exist in European practice, but that we have failed in the right way to live, so we have then brought them into line with our real situation and that this area of consumer protection is important and dynamic and that this is not the last time this law will change. On that side of the change is good, all those that allow greater consumer rights, as my colleagues said before me, each of us is often in the role of consumers during the day. What we think is bad in this law is already at the very beginning, Article 3, which states that this law regulates the relationship between traders and consumers, but in a way that protects consumers, since it is normally in a position of the economically weaker side. He then says in the next position - relations not governed by this law will be subject to the Bond Relations Act, unless a special law is prescribed otherwise. We believe that this is one bad provision, because it can practically define all the rights that this law gives, first of all, towards consumers to service providers provided by large public enterprises, where you come as a user in a situation that you cannot, for example, sign an electro-distribution contract, let's say, provide services, where you have no right to change that contract. We feel it is bad if this law provides for certain provisions that go in favour of the service provider. With some amendments, we have tried to clarify these things, i.e. to strengthen the position of consumers. We've had many of us these days, among other things, and I have a memo from the Elektroprivreda, asking that I, as a consumer and signator of the contract, come and give my birth number under threat that something will happen to me if I don't give that number. When I made the deal, I made it, I couldn't change anything. I don't think it can be implemented by speaking to me as a consumer and asking me to approach, to approach, to take my time to go to some offices and give my birth number there. I don't think such things should happen and that this or some other law should protect consumers in Serbia. What we also think is not well solved in this law are the large discretionary powers of the ministry in relation to associations and alliances that play a significant role in the Consumer Council, i.e. in the National Council, where they participate in the draft law, one third of the members give, meaning, representatives of the Consumer Council, which the ministry assists and promotes their work, keeps records, determines and certain budget funds. We believe that this relationship between the association and the ministry tends to be in one dependent position with regard to the ministry, and then these associations are expected to have a control function through the work of the National Council. We think it is necessary and we have proposed through certain solutions to ensure greater neutrality and independence of associations and alliances compared to the ministry. At some point during the public debate, there was a solution that was envisaged that there was a centre for non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes. It's given up on this bill of law. There were different opinions. It is certainly also the ministry of reasoning that it is necessary to improve the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes, the formation of bodies. In this case, she gave up the center. A body was formed within the Ministry. We'll see what effect that will have in the future. Let me try to take this time and say something about these other two proposed laws that are on the agenda today. We had that announcement when this government was elected, although that announcement has been in place for two years, that the number of agencies will be reduced. The essence of these amendments, in addition to harmonising with the Constitution of the Law on Electronic Communications, is to abolish the Republic Postage Services Agency and attach its competences to the RATL. What the minister himself said would not bring some great savings to the budget, and the fact is that all employees and all rights and obligations will be taken over by the adoption of these laws in the next three months. There are different European practices. One number of countries have agencies doing these two roles together, as we will, if these laws are adopted, have, but more countries have separate agencies. It turned out to be a good practice. But, well, since the government's policy is to reduce the number of ministries, I believe that by adopting these laws it will be achieved. I'm not sure, and the minister himself has admitted that it will not bring great savings. What seems most important to me to the citizens, by adopting these amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, is given to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications of Great Powers, i.e. it now takes over the completion of the work on the digitalisation of TV signals and introduces a new member, we have heard little about it, which gives the government the right to determine in what way it will help socially endangered categories to come to the acquisition of set-top-boxes, which will allow citizens to continue to see, receive a signal from the national broadcasters that will be performed only in the digital TV spectrum. What is in the explanation is that one study has been done, I think citizens should know that, depending on the model defined by the government, this support will cost citizens of Serbia from the budget between three million, 3.7m euros, and up to 10.7m euros, depending on how large the number of users the state will decide to subsidise in the purchase of these boxes, which cost approximately 10 euros. What we're interested in, first of all, at this point, is everything done about the digitization of TV signals? This is about the 17th of June 2015 deadline, as the deadline for the process to be completed. The deadline in which it was supposed to end has already passed. There were many deadlines in the plan that had been breached. The deadline is when the analogue signal in the Republic of Serbia must be shut down. What's known is that unfortunately, it hasn't been done according to the dynamics planned over the last few years, it hasn't done enough to digitize TV signals. And we're asking a question and we're expressing concern -- is that going to be able to end in this year, given one large part of the work and the resources needed to end it? What citizens need to know is that by introducing a digital signal, television will have a better quality signal and perhaps more channels available. What's important for the state and what's too bad this job isn't finished so far is to open up one major resource, release a digital spectrum and open up the possibility that the state is incomeing. Some estimate is that a state, such as Serbia can issue licenses, primarily mobile phone operators who need a new spectrum to introduce new technologies, can earn between 50m euros and 100m euros. That's why we urge this process to be completed as soon as possible. Of course, we are already late and I think it is more dangerous for us to be in a situation to lose a number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia without a TV signal by shutting down analogue signals in June next year. We expect the ministry to report on how this process is progressing in the coming period. Also, the question is raised, and there is no discussion in the expert public, I think there is no dilemma, about the need to create a national broadband network so that all networks with which public enterprises in Serbia currently have access, and Telecom, Post office, Elektrotroprivreda and Railway Unity, so that this remains the resources of the state through which the communication of state authorities, public enterprises is conducted and that, after the announced sale of "Telecoma", the entire state communication goes through a network of private operators. We all know that there's always a question of the security of the state, as well as a price to be paid in that case. Our question is whether the ministry is considering before the sale of Telecom a national broadband network, which will enable quality, fast and independent communication between state authorities and public enterprises in the future? For these laws, as a parliamentary group, we will not vote. We'll wait for the Ministry's statement on amendments, but I must repeat that this practice where we don't have the opportunity to carry out one broader round of consultations before this debate and that we are only referred to some of our own knowledge which, I must admit, is restricted from all these areas which these laws concern and which will concern in the future, and we have so little time, practically two unworkable days, to read these laws and to say something about them, write some amendment... We are placed in one position that we cannot believe that all the solutions proposed by these laws are optimal and that is why we will not support these solutions. At the beginning, we will wait for a statement by the Minister on the amendments, and in the end, when we finally vote, we will determine whether we will vote yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2819	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2820	I thought I would answer at the end of this debate, but since Mr Djurisic has raised some issues that go beyond the importance of the law itself, and they are very important, I am taking the opportunity to give very short answers when it comes to digitisation and the state broadband. These are important things that are a little bit spoken of and even less known. It is true that we are digitising in quite a delay and that the first deadline for the completion of the digitalisation process was April 4, 2012. It is true that the EU has given 10.5m euros in aid to this process, that the aid phase is complete and that the EU is directly interested in ending the process as soon as possible. When it was seen that it could not be reached by the deadline of 2012, then it was extended and now it is 17 June 2015. I have to tell you that we've done an analysis and we've realized that only 15-20% of the digitalization process has been done, if you measure from one to a hundred. A huge delay. We tried a whole series of activities, actions, measures, negotiations, talks to speed up the process, because we come into a big problem if we don't finish all of this by 2015. It's going to be a huge damage to the state, to the citizens. It will be possible to disrupt the signal to those in border areas that have a digital signal, if we still have the analogue transmission of that signal. Now, where are we? We're in the final phase. Two are the preconditions to bring the process to an end. One is the adoption of this set of media laws. Of the three laws, which are important for the digitalization process, I expect that these laws will be by next week, I have assurances from the Ministry of Culture here before you. The second condition is to provide adequate financial resources. We are in the final phase of negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will lead the whole process, and tender, and procurement, and necessary equipment. The plan is to sign a pre-contract at the end of June or early July, and in September we sign a contract on the loan, which would ensure that the digitalisation process continues, speeds up and ends by June. What you specifically stressed, a particularly important item, is that this process is a cost to the state. Initially, it was projected to cost about 70m euros. I hope we finish it by almost three times less. We still don't know, we don't have fully defined items, but I believe that in three times less resources, we're going to complete the whole digitalization process. The benefit is great, because it's exactly as much as you said. There are estimates of differences between 50m and 100m euros. I don't think it's gonna happen, but I'm sure it won't be under $50 million. The Macedonians took close to 50 million, and I think we can take more. The Croats, too, have taken more. It's, in any case, one huge resource we can use. As for the state telecommunications network, that story was active as long as we were together in the government. A task force working on it has been formed. It goes without a problem, but this has become an imperative almost as significant as this digalitation, if not larger, precisely for the reasons you were talking about, which is in the case of the privatisation of Telecom, we will be in a situation that Telecom uses the services of a private telecommunications company. Therefore, this is indeed an imperative for this process to be brought to an end. Just one more cost-related thing about getting setboxes. There was a very open one analysis and what you mentioned, that cost could be between three and ten million, but it's based on one study and analysis of the Social Inclusion Team of the Government, which we asked for suggestions as much and how this process could be done. Then the Public Information Commissioner said that you can't just do it, you have to have some legal basis, because you have to run the database on who we share it with. We once made a similar situation that was done by the Ministry of Energy in the adoption of the Energy Act concerning vulnerable consumers, i.e. those who have the right to incentives. So this is just a basis. No one knows at this point, and if it says here, it's true, between three and ten million, which citizens are going to be referring to. That number can also be significantly smaller. The Ministry of Energy is incentivising 120,000 households, and this refers to nearly 308,000 households of these three million. So it can be less, and secondly, no one knows at this point the Setoboxes cost money. Their value falls from year to year, which increases the need for them. Some countries have not completed this process, so I think this price is still going to fall, and new generations and competition are also emerging, which will certainly affect the ultimate price of individual setoboxes. So we only gave orientationally and pointed out the need to help those who couldn't secure the Sethoboxes. At this point, no one can tell you how many households there will be, and that's why we said that the government has a special decision to make. We don't even know how much it's gonna cost together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2821	The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2822	The President-in-Office, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a set of three laws, i.e. two amendments and additions to the laws on electronic communications and postal services and one brand-new Consumer Protection Act. Given that this Consumer Protection Act is completely new, that it brings a large number of new solutions and that practically in a new way, i.e. it significantly improves this area changes things, I will put my emphasis on this law, and I will let my colleague Bosnjak talk about the remaining two laws. As I said, the intensity of this law is to greatly improve this area, namely to improve consumer rights protection, or if you want to fully define the relationship between a consumer trader. Why is it so important to regulate the relationship between the trader and the consumer in detail? The answer is very simple. Because this relationship in its being unfair. A trader, or seller, is someone who is a professional, who is an expert in his field, someone who has knowledge, who has all the information and someone who can support it with a very significant financial support behind him. On the other hand, we have another contractual side, i.e. the buyer, or if you want a consumer who is most often an individual and is an unprotected or poorly protected individual who for various reasons, whether subjective or objective, does not have full information and is inferior to the trader in his financial strength. I would like to say another very important thing for citizens who are not obliged to fully understand these things, I must say that every sale or purchase by nature is a kind of implicit contractual relationship because in this law very often come up with concepts such as – a contract or a contractual party. Each purchase, i.e. the sale, is a kind of implicit contractual relationship in which the consumer, i.e. the buyer, undertakes to pay a high or agreed price, and the seller, or trader, undertakes to deliver the goods or services in the promised quality and in accordance with the conditions of sale. Unfortunately, practice shows that traders often take advantage of their specific relationship with the trader, i.e. ingenuity, injustice, inequality, inequality, whatever you want, by bringing themselves into a superior, and consumers into a subordinate position, and so we as consumers are very often faced with different forms of endangering our consumer rights. Let's say, we meet with the forms of so-called. unfair business practices which are divided into some two forms. One is so-called. misleading practice, and another aggressive business practice. We meet with forms of unfair contractual provisions. We meet with cases where the goods, or services we bought, are not delivered in the promised quality. As far as these unfair business practices are concerned, I will only make a few examples to make it clear to the citizens who are watching the transfer of this session. When we talk about misleading business practices, we think first of all about examples of hidden costs, that is, what I was talking about, the weaker information of the consumer side when the seller does not fully inform us about what we pay for, or what we have to pay for when we buy a particular product or service. We also have a so-called. false properties that represent a kind of deception when the seller promises us that we will achieve some results by using his product or when he calls for some analysis that is not entirely accurate or when he calls for the support of some respectable bodies, and in fact there is no support. When it comes to abusive unfair business practices, I would first point out something called pressure, and here today very often we face a situation where we are under some kind of implicit, indirect pressure to sign some kind of contract and enter into some kind of buy-in relationship. Another thing that is very important and which is ultimately something that should not only be sanctioned by law but is also a kind of very serious ethical offense, which is so-called. child abuse especially for marketing purposes, which is essentially child abuse for the purpose of selling a particular product or service. When we talk about unfair contractual provisions, it usually refers to those situations when we sign certain type contracts and when a practically seller uses that superior position, that is, its power and imposes on us a contract that brings us into an unequal position, that is to say, to bring us into a subordinate position whether it gives him the opportunity to change some of the provisions during the duration of the contract, whether it gives him the opportunity to change the value of that contract, or the price of the service he has offered us, whether it brings us in some other way to an unequal position. Finally, there are other examples, and I've singled out those that seem to be most important to me, is the problem of the inappropriate quality of the goods, or the service that has been delivered to us, when goods or services or what are various accompanying elements, the type of something that we've been offered as some kind of incentive to enter into this buy-in relationship, when it's not in agreement with what was promised at the first moment. I think we have quite a number of very rigorous provisions in this law. The minister talked a lot about it, so I wouldn't go back to it. In order to regulate such situations as I have mentioned, it is necessary to create a legal framework that is clear, precise and in practice fully applicable that we can regulate them in an adequate legal manner, to regulate the protection of consumer rights and regulate the sanctioning of those who threaten them. Only in this way can we expect that to the greatest extent, the rights of those who are in this relationship will be protected. We have the Consumer Protection Act, still valid, which was passed in October 2010, and has been in place since 1 January 2011, and the minister said that the law was not very bad, and then I believe that there are those who can ask the right question – why are we going to change the legal framework, and in particular – why are we now passing a whole new law and we have not reached out to the Institute of Amendments and Supplements of the Law? I will try in a systematic way, although it sounds affirmative, to talk about myself, to try to explain and explain why it was very important to approach this process and in the end why it was important to pass a whole new law. So, to be clear, I've shared an argument to show that it was very important to enter into these amendments and the additions of the law into some three groups. In the first group is what seems most important to me, and these are the problems observed in this law, especially in its application. When we talk about this, I must first say that it has been noted that this legal framework has not provided sufficient information for consumers, which is ultimately a prerequisite for them to be able to fight for their rights. The framework was not good enough to be able to work more seriously on consumer education. The framework did not foresee what we have in the new law, which is that there is one centralised database that will collect data on all the violations of consumer rights. The second thing that is very important is that it is recognised that there is not enough capacity and that it is quite a weak network of consumer associations. When we add to this this insufficient institutional framework, we were practically in a situation that they were unable to protect consumer rights in an effective and effective way. The next thing that has proved to be a serious lack of a previous legal solution is something that many, including the minister, have spoken of, and that is that the procedures for the protection of consumer rights, whether they are individual or collective, were quite complicated and quite expensive. Also, this current legal solution has shown a kind of inability to recognise all forms of consumer rights endangerment. I have to say that for both subjective and objective reasons. From subjective to the fact that some forms are not really recognized, and from objective because in this era of technological revolution and constantly changing ways, especially communication between people, and hence between sellers and consumers, there are practically new forms of possible abuses in relation to the seller-user. In the end, this legal framework that fully regulates this matter shows a really good number of shortcomings, and it was really necessary to reform it completely. Another set of arguments, I would say, stems from a comparative analysis of the data we received from the IPA project dealing with strengthening consumer protection in Serbia, data obtained from the Ministry and some data obtained from the Mediation Centre, which has not existed since the second half of 2012. These data show us something I've already said, which is that consumers are really not sufficiently informed about how they can protect their rights. On the other hand, it shows us something that is encouraging, which is that there is awareness among consumers that they possess these rights and there is growing interest among consumers in protecting their rights. Another thing that can be seen from this comparative analysis is that really strengthening the capacity of consumer associations and strengthening their role is something that is absolutely justified and something that is embedded in this legislative proposal. That's what we welcome anyway. Finally, the third group of arguments, unlike those that were more specific, are general and technical, but absolutely no less significant. One thing that is evident is that this area is changing very quickly and is extremely dynamic and therefore it is simply necessary to change very often. What one of his colleagues said is very likely that we will meet again with someone, but I hope this time changes and additions to this law. The second thing that is very important is that, in the meantime, two new EU directives relating to consumer protection have been passed since the previous law was adopted. One is 2013/11 and the other is 2011/83. It's really not just our goodwill to change this law, it's our legal obligation, considering Article 78. The law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement makes it very clear that it is our legal obligation to harmonise legislation in the area of consumer protection. The fact is that changes and additions of this law were originally considered, but at one point we had to decide to go to a whole new law and to be bound again by one member of the 47th single methodological rules for the making of rules, which was prescribed by the National Assembly, which says that if more than half of the members change, a whole new law must be written. The new law that lies before us has removed all these shortcomings that I have spoken of so far, and I think there are some more benefits that it brings. I would point out only three who, in my opinion, are the most important benefits related to the novelty of the law that lies ahead of us. The two concern improving the efficiency and efficiency of consumer protection in Serbia, and the third concerns something that the SDPS parliamentary group particularly welcomes, which is the introduction of a kind of social component in the area of consumer protection. As for increasing the efficiency of consumer protection, there are two key things that appear in the new law, which affect increased efficiency. One is decentralisation, and for this reason I really expect that the vast majority of MPs to support this law, because in this way practically one large number of ingenuities are transferred to local self-government and essentially gives them the right to have a larger scope of activity, but also a greater range of powers in the application of this law. This has been done because it has been recognised that the problems of endangering consumer rights are definitely easier to detect locally than at the level of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing that is very important is that it will join a significant strengthening of the civil sector. In the first place of more serious regulation, in the sense that very specific rules will be laid down, i.e. criteria on which consumer associations will be able to be entered in the register, which will give us a very clear picture of who really are representative consumer representatives. Then those who have this capacity of representativeness will be able to get the resources at their disposal, be able to engage in a more serious education of consumers, be able to engage in mediation in dispute resolution and be able to engage, which is also very important, in the work to improve regulation in this area. I'd like to say a few more things that may not be directly related to the law we're talking about, which are some benefits that adoption of this law will bring. The first thing that I think is very important is that, by adopting this law, we practically round up a set of system laws in the area of trade, which practically creates conditions for increasing competition in this area for the inflow of new investments in the area of trade, and thus also for the growth of the trade sector, which is consequently reflected in GDP growth, and ultimately, and not least, to the greater satisfaction of consumers. The second thing that I think is very important, which would make the adoption of this law a benefit that is wider than the legal framework, is that we are practically rounding up the area of consumer protection, because I will remind you that in July 2013, a Consumer Protection Strategy and following an action plan for its implementation was adopted. By adopting, that is, by adopting this law which has incorporated the most modern solutions from world practice and the EU's latest directive, we are practically rounding up the area of consumer protection and entering into some future opening of Chapter 28, which deals with other issues and consumer protection, fully prepared. I would say that this way of thinking and behaviour is a kind of paradigm that the ministries should behave, i.e. that they should meet some future commitments that will definitely appear in the EU accession process, i.e. EU accession. So, we should be prepared when it comes to screening, and especially when we open chapters within our European path, to keep them as fast as possible and shut down, and since we have a very ambitious plan for our European accession process. I'd just like to say one more thing, referring to something a colleague used to say. I have to say that the procedure for the adoption of this law is more than fully respected, because there have been some objections that public debates may not have been properly conducted. So not only was there a public debate on the issue of this law, but two public debates were held, one in July last year when amendments and amendments to the law were still under consideration, and the other in October when it was clear that it had to go to the writing of a new law. These discussions included absolutely all relevant factors, from ministry representatives, through representatives of relevant consumer associations, the National Consumer Council, representatives of the economy, representatives of the scientific and professional public, and indeed all those objections that were rational. Finally, I must say, given that the European Commission has had quite a number of objections to the previous text of the law, I must say, it is very important to mention that this law includes absolutely all the objections made by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2823	The word has been given by an authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2824	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, is my opinion that today we have three extremely good draft laws. I must tell you that I was getting ready for this discussion first of all because, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I can argue on the proposals of these laws. The only thing I have to say and I would agree with my predecessors' colleagues is that we have indeed had very little time to prepare ourselves because of the urgency of passing this law and it certainly affects the quality of the discussion in parliament that must always be justified, concrete and facts. In the light of this law, and you too, Mr. Minister, today, have said that the aim of the Consumer Protection Act is primarily one comprehensive and concrete consumer protection on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, it is primarily meant to educate and inform consumers, to protect their economic interests, to solve consumer problems, as well as to represent consumer interests, but also to protect the availability of goods and services. I think that at no time should we ignore the fact that this area is very important in the EU countries and is treated in their laws as well. The reason for this is more than simple, because all of us, no matter what work we do, regardless of our current material status as we have, are part of our purchasing power as part of this unique consumer army within not only one country but also beyond. The world has not become global primarily thanks to the lightning speed of the development of information technologies, but also thanks to the extremely dynamic exchange of goods and services. When we analyse certain provisions of this law, we should bear in mind the fact that they are both the biggest traders and sellers at the same time in private life consumers. I will agree with the conclusion that effective consumer protection is possible only if such an environment is created which will allow them to exercise and use their rights. What does that really mean? This means that we all need to be aware at all times of our rights and responsibilities as consumers, that we have a smooth access to all information and advice, and that we have the means of legal protection available and adequate compensation for damages. However, I must say to this occasion that the application of this law, which, once again, I must stress is extremely good, will not have its full effect and will depend on it to be a simple final moment for us to develop healthy competition and a true competition. I must also appeal to all those, and above all to the Resort Ministry and Government, who participate in the creation of our economic policy to take care of themselves, to make a new, as I would say, significant players who would make the competition more interesting. But, in order to have both foreign and domestic investors who would participate properly in this competition, the first and basic prerequisite is to improve the position of consumers in the Republic of Serbia and to eliminate informal monopolies and quasi monopolies which, unfortunately, continue to exist and are very dominant. Until this happens, I am afraid that we will continue to witness a number of examples that contribute to the claim that our consumer is in a subordinate position to the trader, because only healthy competition protects consumers in the essential sense of words. No law as well written as it is, no inspection service as well as it is well organized will force the trader, or seller, to change the established system of conduct without sound competition. So it's a strong competition that makes you lower prices, improve service quality, just do everything you need to do when you say you're giving discounts that it's really essential to be a discount. I will give an example of a centre's authorlet located in Pandorf near Vienna, which at the time of Christmas holidays is an inevitable place for most tourists. Therefore, in the developed market economies, the customer in the fullest sense bears the name of his Majesty the buyer. So, in developed democratic European countries, the customer is always in first place and I hope that we as a society will move in that direction. Certainly, the new legislative proposal represents a shift in relation to the existing solution, as given the dynamics of this area it is logical that there has been a change compared to three years ago and that these changes of legislation should be accompanied in an adequate manner. Of course, there is also a need to specify the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry. In an institutional sense, it is my opinion that it is primarily necessary to strengthen the work of all competent inspection services on the ground. I'd just like to make an example of this. Article 6 of its standard formulation provides that the trader is obliged to highlight, in an unambiguous, readable and easy manner, the sales price, or the unit price of the goods or services in accordance with the regulations governing trade. However, enter any of our stores, the store will make sure that this legal provision is massively violated, so that if the inspection authorities had the capacity above all to deal with this phenomenon, they would have their hands full writing penalties, or applications. Article 8 of this Act stipulates that a trader who offers or advertises the provision of a service of permanent supply of electricity, gas, heat or water is obliged to make it clear in the offer under one, the unit price of spent electricity or heat, the unit price of water or gas consumed. I don't know about water or gas, but I have to say that for electricity bills, many of us still have to have a college level of knowledge of mathematics for their understanding, not to mention if they need to advertise that electricity bill on the distribution counters tell you first to pay that bill, and then advertise. It is very important that Article 14. The bill stipulates that the consumer is not obliged to pay any form of additional costs, including postal costs and transport and delivery costs, if the trader has not received explicit consumer consent for specific additional costs, which is certainly a good solution. Article 15 provides that the payment obligation paid by the consumer through a bank, a public postal operator or another payer is to be considered to be settled on the day when payment service providers have received a payment order. I have to say that I've been in a situation many times, and I and a large number of Serbian citizens, who have faced the fact that when they pay the property tax, the IRS say that we were a few days late and that's why we're counting interest. So it is really necessary to introduce order, which this law very clearly indicates. Practically, on the day the payment is recorded, it should also be recorded in tax administrations, that there is simply no reason to be any stalemate, including unnecessary interest, and that in this way no longer Serbian citizens can be damaged. I believe that it is a very good solution in Article 16 which provides that basic principles of consumer protection should become an integral part and teaching programs in primary and secondary schools, not only because children are learning about consumer rights and obligations in the early years of education through our school system, but rather because they will learn about it in a way that will improve a somewhat deformed idea of what the meaning of buying is. Art. In 17-26, they specify the concepts – unfair, misleading, dissuasive business practices, which is extremely important, since all of us in practice, in stores, are confronted with these phenomena, and so far, unfortunately, they could not be properly sanctioned. Here's a specific example. Recently, information has surfaced that market inspectors have withdrawn thousands of pairs of shoes worth 9.4 million dinars. The action, if I'm not mistaken, was implemented in early April of this year, due to a large number of consumer advertising. Even a third of all customer complaints on the quality of the purchased goods were about shoes, the most common shoes that only after a few wearing malice, disintegrate, freak out or crack their sole. The big problem is that in shops it is almost impossible to find shoes for rainy weather in which there is no beautiful accreditation in a foreign language that informs all consumers about the quality of the shoes, whether it is waterproof or not. In preparation for this debate, I read the findings of Mr. Petar Bogosavljevic, President of the Consumer Protection Movement, who said it was the usual trick of traders, importers or producers, who thus protect themselves if shoes or boots or shoes miss water. I will also point out another example - advertising that the product is without additives, that it is produced in the EU, that it is organic, and that is not really the case, which also falls under unfair business practice. Do not forget this opportunity and inform mobile and cable operators about the price change and terms of the package without prior consumer consent or a free bank credit behind which administrative costs are hidden. The proposed text of the law sanctions unconscious traders, which is of course excellent, but should be taken into account and the fact that many consumers are not aware that they are victims of such practices and should therefore work on general education. It is clear that the consumer must know exactly what he is buying, so any incomprehensible and ambiguous information is part of unfair business. How often did we meet with unread declarations written in fine print, written in pale and blurry letters? Also, with the introduction of unfair and harmful provisions in general and beer contracts whose purpose is to place consumers in an unequal position, by deluding them, by hiding important provisions in the text and so on. That is why I believe that the provision of Article 41 is extremely important, because it prescribes that the contract provision binds the consumer only if it is expressed in a simple, clear and understandable language, in order to be understood by a reasonable man, the consumer's knowledge and experience. The provision in Article 42 favours the consumer by predicting that unclear provisions of the contract between consumers and traders must be interpreted in favour of consumers. It is very important that a member of the 84th Law recognises the concept of a threatened consumer as a social category, which is that the Government is closer to regulating the criteria for the definition of vulnerable consumers as well as specific conditions for providing services of general economic interest to this consumer category, which is absolutely necessary in our economic situation. The 86th article contains several extremely important solutions that are maximumly protected by consumers in terms of electricity supply, water, gas, heat energy, and I think that this is good, as well as from 123 to 126 members, who in one very clear way define the consumer protection strategy, because, above all, besides the National Assembly, the National Consumer Protection Council also includes non-governmental institutions which, in their views and whatever they do, meet the requirements of comprehensive consumer protection. I believe that existing associations and organisations dealing with this problem are doing a good job under the given circumstances and that they should certainly be further affirmed, which is also the intensity of the legislator. Article 126 in a clear way defines the tasks of the competent ministry. I wouldn't particularly explain it. At the end of this debate on the Consumers Act, I want to repeat once again one very important thing – that only strong and healthy competition can really impose new standards and patterns of behaviour on our traders. I have to give another concrete example from Great Britain. When you buy any clothes, wardrobe, or shoes in the UK, you have the right to return that clothing and wardrobe within 14 days or 28 days, without any special explanation for having changed your mind, and to receive the money neatly. You will admit that this acts as an abstraction in our terms, but this is solely the result of competition that simply makes traders adequately treat consumers. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, I will say very briefly that the needs of the adoption of these laws are motivated primarily by the need to streamline the work of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, that these two legislative proposals are also very good and clear and I inform you that the NS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support all three draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2825	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2826	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, today on behalf of the DS, I want to talk about these three draft laws, one brand-new law and two amendments and additions to existing laws. I agree with my colleague Djurisic that this is not the way and procedure in which we can decide and contribute to this debate on the quality of the law, especially the proposed Consumer Protection and Rights Act. Sincerely believing in the orientation of Mr. Minister and all his associates, in the European orientation, I think it is important to mention these basic values and postulates that are needed in meeting and, above all, the common desire for Serbia to take a European path, which is primarily to encourage the strengthening of the capacity of institutions and the participation of citizens in decision-making. Here, today we make important decisions, important laws, and I think it is important to give space to all MPs, to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia through respect above all, when we talk about the proposal for a law on consumer rights, remarks and opinions of the association dealing with this matter. When we talk about the capacity of the institutions, I sincerely believe that this Parliament, as the most important institution in the state, will have more importance if we have more space to talk about all these laws and to prepare ourselves in the right way, because really one or two days of preparation for such a topic with a law of over 200 pages cannot be seriously processed. Quoting and consulting with some people working through consumer rights organisations, I will try to make some points about this, their views that may be useful to you. Our wish is to contribute to this debate. So one of the points of view is that the law is not enforceable in practice, because it is contrary to a litigation procedure, so that all law-fulfilment and vice versa are annulled in court. It's a claim by serious lawyers and people dealing with this matter. What is most important to me is the capacity of inspection services, inspection jobs and supervision in protecting consumer rights. I think that there is a key question of the implementation of this law and the way in which we will truly protect the rights of consumers of each of us in Serbia. Their view is that the inspection still has no jurisdiction, and that sectoral laws are in collegiate. By reading this bill, on page 129, we can see in Chapter 4 when it is said, especially on why the adoption of this law is best for solving problems, it is said that by prescribing the wider scope of supervision of inspection bodies we contribute to improving the quality and raising consumer rights, and already on the next side, and I agree with that, that it is certainly necessary to strengthen the possibilities of inspection and their supervision, and already on page 131, point 6 shows what costs will be incurred by citizens and businesses, where it is said: the application of this act will not cause citizens or the economy to allocate additional costs, given that the resolution ministry, among other things, will encourage and provide support for the establishment and work of bodies for the non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes, and it will have positive effects. I don't think it's possible, with the additional allocation of funds, to strengthen the capacity of inspections, and I think we should think about that anyway. So much for the law. The position of the DS Parliament Club will also be determined by the possible adoption of amendments to these proposed laws. Now I'm going to move on to another topic, and that's the bill on amending the Law on Post Office Services. I'll say what it means in practice, because we've heard a lot of good thinking, and mostly in favor of this law. Indeed, there are positive solutions here, starting with extending the competences and opportunities of a public postal operator in this postal work, plus extending these possibilities in representation in insurance in accordance with the rules governing insurance, trading operations, international manuals and other activities. I think this is a good prerequisite for the integration of serious offers and serious services that a public postal operator can already place with the integration of all segments and good practices in its work, which is, above all, a diversified network, one serious superiority in the information and communication arrangements and development of logistics services, logistics products, with the opening of space and service to facilitate export procedures and in real support of our economy, I think with this set of solutions, a public and postal operator can integrate and create a much more complex service which is extremely good. However, it is also important to consider what some of these solutions offer. This law and amendments to the law are simple to read. On the other hand, point 12a is added after point 12a: it determines how and conditions of access to the postal network of a public postal operator and manages the register of concluded contracts. So, I think it's one of the key things to talk about and think about what will be produced and how it will be implemented in the future application of these laws and what consequences it will bring to a public postal operator and competition from a public postal operator, 30 or 40, who are operating on this market. Here's a brief and simple analysis. I think I have something right to talk about. We are aware that a public postal operator has an obligation to perform a service. There are about 1,500 postal network units throughout Serbia. The analysis shows that about 50% of these units of postal networks do not operate profitablely. So, a public postal operator shows extremely good results, in my opinion, and in these difficult times, primarily through the innovation of new products and through the profitability of some services that do not include this universal postal service. He is committed to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to our country to preserve that network and those 1,500 units of the postal network, whether they were profitable or not. We are aware that the unit of the Post Office network cannot be profitable because it pays these same costs, fixed costs with the employees it is necessary to have in order to maintain that function, to have payment traffic, to have a universal service that belongs to every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. Now with this point that we are adopting and we are likely to vote this law as a Assembly, it is practically opening up space for all competition, because the Post Office of Serbia must provide access to its own network to all its competitors. So that's something that needs to be arranged, and I hope that it will be more precisely arranged for new solutions. I have no doubt that there is sufficient capacity in the Ministry, but also through cooperation by a public operator and through a wide debate and with competition and all postal operators who have that license to perform this type of service. What's that gonna mean under these conditions? I believe that many of us here do not know what practical knowledge it is that the Post Office of Serbia will practically be obliged to provide, in addition to these services of its network, services processing through an insight into the address code, through an insight into how all postal mailing companies are processed and the possibility of contracting and using that network. So, it is required to respond within 30 days to the request of each postal operator in the use of these services, but it is a question of how much it is now in capacity and able to make that commitment, legal obligation, and implement it. It is also able to reject such a kind of requirement if they estimate it would compromise the universal service, but now we have these three months in some way passing period in the abolition of the Republic Postage Services Agency and the formation of a new regulatory body. In practice, we have one serious challenge in tracking and resolving possible disputes and possible disagreements in this future co-operation. What will further mean when it comes to costs and efficiency and the obligation of "Post-Serbia", because we have seen here that the new regulatory body and quality conditions, universal postal services, and how much with existing capacities, with the ban on new employment in the public sector, will be able to meet new challenges and how can it be adapted during this transitional period? I think that these are very important points which, of course, need to be taken seriously and to think about what will be produced on the ground, because we can hear complaints in remote areas today, because there is, of course, a clear order on the Committee on Spatial Planning of Infrastructure and Telecommunications, when this idea and this proposal on the merger of the two agencies began. We talked about some remarks that, of course, in the rural area, it takes several days to hand over postal shipments, which is in accordance with the law. What will it produce in the efficiency of a public operator when it puts into operation theoretically for 30 new operators its own network? So, it will take a lot of time, and it will take a lot of energy and commitment, but also this integrated approach, and I think of it as necessary first and foremost an open debate on this topic and literally a daily search for these solutions from the moment of adoption of the law, not from that moment, but from now on, because it is clear that this assembly majority intends to vote this way. I think in some part of the amendments maybe you can intervene in that sense and the DS will try to make your contribution in that sense. It's very important to say what is obtained and what is lost in connection with the merger, which is the essence of these two regulatory bodies. It is clearly a political decision and it has been implemented in a quick and efficient manner. There are advantages in listening to arguments of merger – racinalization. We promised to cut the number of regulatory bodies, but we saw that it didn't bring any big savings to the budget. That's an advantage. On the other hand, I think that in thinking and in getting to know each other, I know that there are many colleagues and colleagues here who have a lot of experience in the postal sphere and in the field of telecommunications. Since the 1990s, there has been practically this attitude of mail, Telekom, and later new telecommunications operators on our postal and telecommunications market. I'll tell you what the relationship between the people who stayed in the post office system is. You all know, but I will remind you and the public that this very infrastructure system is so important, which should be considered in what way this growth trend in business and efficiency came from two of the largest privatisations in Serbia, from this infrastructure system, from "Post-Serbia", that infrastructure was also built on Telekom Serbia through privatisation in 1997, then 49% of Telekom was sold for about a billion and 600 million marks, that it came from also Mobtel through co-operation and on the Post-Serbia infrastructure and later through the privatisation process sold to Telenor for about a billion and 600 million euros. Fortunately, in 2002 and later 2010, parts of the actions that were sold to Telekom were returned. And in the prime minister's exposé, we heard the government's intensities about the future privatisation of Telekom Srbija. What are we talking about here? I am talking about one proposal and something that needs to be debated openly, which is that the post office today has these opportunities to build on its infrastructure a new value in line with new technologies, a new value in line with the new development of its logistics capacities, the integration of these capacities and the use of communication opportunities it has, of course, with the realization of something that started in 2010, especially in the decisions of the then government, which has made the decision, and the then Management Board of "Post-Serbia" on the transfer of its works of Telekom's actions in the future preparation of privatisation to the state of Serbia and that through such a system of mail should be given a system of special links. This once again raises a very important issue that needs to be mentioned today, which is a matter of national security and a very important issue in future communication and the possibility of further mail, I hope, since a strong state infrastructure system, a development vehicle, and someone who may be encouraging and giving the basis for future development of the electronic administration, because it has already given and made its contribution to the infrastructure, the necessary electronic infrastructure, such as electronic signatures and time stamps and other services that it is able to provide. It is also necessary to realise decisions that have not been realised so far, precisely in order to integrate all these capacities, with the announcement of a new privatisation of Telekom on the "Post-Serbia" infrastructure, can build a new value that will have these opportunities, especially in the part of logistics. Now we've seen some solutions that will also be able to boost the distance trade. I think these are all the opportunities that "Serb Post" has at the moment. This whole set of laws is exactly how we have to observe what's going to happen. This is exactly what I was talking about, wanting to show that kind of confidence, both of which are systems. This feeling that, on the basis of the development of the postal service, which is not as fast growing as telecommunications, the largest communication systems in Serbia have been developed and that this was the feeling of staying in the technological sense of a public postal operator, by justifiably investing in telecommunications, and now again one regulatory post office, agency, attaches and drownings into one regulatory body of communication, which essentially came from the postal services themselves. I think it is very important in this regard to make it relevant, with the ambition shown that all these solutions must not dampen the ambition of a public operator, who will be in its challenges, because it is possible to abandon its basic business through its exposure and exposure to its network throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which, despite its losses on that network, must now and its own competition. I think these are the things that are here in this law only stand in two humble lines, but we could probably talk about it for the next two days. I will end up here and say that the DS Parliament Club will think very carefully and try to make this, unfortunately, very short time for such important topics to make our contribution and try to make this law much more enforceable in practice and much more practical, because I know that both this law and our vote and our pressing the green button will produce something in a concrete life, especially with the challenges of a system so important to the state of Serbia, the public operator "Post of Serbia", where 15,000 people work, work committedly and honestly and in the right way. I think it's the responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2827	The word is from MP Mirko Chikiriz, representative of the SPO parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2828	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, three very important laws, primarily of life interest to the citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda today. I agree with all colleagues who believe that the MPs should have had more time to respond to the amendment. We did, as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, but I can see that many have failed to do so. It is in the common interest that at the end of the amendment debate, we would get the best text of the law that is in the interest of our citizens. The Consumer Protection Act is closely related to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, Anti-Monopolical Law, and to laws concerning industrial property of copyright, quality standards, the Law on Liaison and many other laws. Simply, in a developed world, citizens, i.e. consumers, are focused on the interest of the state, the focus of business environment and business practice, which is primarily regulated by the state through their national authorities. With us, the Constitution prohibits dishonest activities on the market. This law is indeed trying to create an environment that enables consumers to realise and use their consumer rights, but in practice in recent years we have faced many, many of the problems that our consumers have. I'm going to mention a few examples -- an electric energy bill. The electricity bill, no matter how many times I've been on the electricity supply counters myself, no one can interpret it, even the question has been asked to the former minister to raise the electricity bill. That was impossible to do. We didn't get an answer. No one knows what it means yet – the power involved, what some taxes mean, etc. We've responded to this amendment, about the supply of electricity, heat energy, gas, water, water there's the least of the problems, you have the cubicity, the price of unit water, and that's it. This law should remove all the problems that have existed so far in practice. The law does not very much touch what other laws regulate, however, but when notifying data on goods, it should stand, we have amendedly reacted, that the trader should state the trade name under which the goods are sold, the name and place of the producer, the name and the place of place of the importer, if they are goods from imports, the name of the country of origin of the goods, the data on the quantity and composition, the quality, type and model of the goods, the date of manufacture, the date of use, the method of use, the maintenance and storage of the goods and the possible risks associated with the correct and incorrect use of the goods, depending on the nature of the goods. If we touch any kind of goods, say from the textile industry, we have a lot in Serbia today, not only in Serbia, but we are talking about our country, a producer who, if they produce gins, is putting on world-renowned brands, the type "Armani, Gucci", if it is another product "Barbari", etc., and that is something that should regulate other laws, but this law also needs to draw attention, in a sense that I have put forward. The same applies to stamps and geographical origins, quantity, composition of materials, etc. When we are aware of the absolute conditions that we have in our country and we wonder whether we doubt the quality of the goods that originates, for example works, from Germany, Japan, Britain, France, Switzerland, the United States, our citizens have no doubt about any kind of goods. They have doubts about the goods and the quality of the goods from many other countries, but I'm not going to tell them, because it's all common knowledge. In addition to these problems I have pointed out, the state has gone into significant tycoons, but we still have market monopolies, and competition has not yet been developed in many areas of our business life. State-owned enterprises or enterprises with which the state has a stake remain the biggest problems for real citizens. I mentioned EPS, then Post Office, NIS, "Serbiagas" etc. Since 2010, the law of 2002, 2005, has been all a step forward in relation to the existing situation. A step forward from the current situation is also this law, but what we want in its final appearance to see is that it normably fully regulates what the laws governing this area in the most developed countries of the world and the most developed countries of the EU. For example, since 2010, the law has covered the following areas – emphasising prices, duty to notify before the contract is concluded, which is what this law does, unfair business, guarantees for purchased goods, liability for things with shortages, treats service contracts, tourist travels etc. Our proposal, Minister, is to highlight prices, because it exists in our practice, that in addition to those regular prices it is possible for traders to highlight and lower prices for action goods, goods with shortages, goods to which the deadline of use expires, or for some other reason the trader has reason to highlight the reduced prices. I believe you'll have an understanding of our best intentions. What's good, considering the fact that it's a very poor court practice, that there are very few disputes of this kind in front of the courts, is that the ministry has heard that citizens are free of court fees for the amount of disputes of which the value of the dispute is up to 500,000 dinars. It is also good that the National Consumer Register is formed. For example, it has long existed in developed countries of the world. There are about 9,000 complaints on the annual level. There are some 8,000 objections in Austria. A similar number of objections is in Germany. If our citizens were more informed, if they were more educated, they had more knowledge of what we're talking about, I believe that the number of objections to us would surely exceed that number. It is good that more powers have been given to the Ministry of Management of Administrative Disputes and the return of certain competencies to the market inspection. Simply, the inspections have somehow been wound cancer at the time of implementation, or monitoring the implementation of all laws. There we have had everything and everything in practice, from a variety of political influences to a large extent that citizens, due to the inherited situation, do not trust our numerous inspections, especially labour inspection, and largely to inspections from the area of finance. We didn't seem to have to touch it to cut the advertising deadline from 15 days to eight days. In the world, when you buy the goods, you have the right to return the goods to the trader and ask for a refund without any explanation. Advertising deadlines are generally longer. That's why I think it was supposed to be resonated with us in a similar way. If they are contained here, and are contained in EU directives and two directives that have come up in the meantime, the EU, as a member of 169 on the functioning of the EU, promotes consumer interests and provides a high level of consumer protection. In order to achieve these objectives, the community protects health, security, economic interests of consumers and promotes their right to information and education and the right to association in order to protect their interests, which is all done by this law. The objectives, which are indeed to be achieved by this bill, are equal and fair functioning of the internal market, the right to consumer choice and unfair business practice is eliminated. It seems to me that this second part, the right to choice, will be often denied to consumers, not because of your failure, but simply because in many areas we still have monopolies and we do not have developed competition. I will list some examples from the world, how developed countries of the world go hand in hand to consumers and how both their interests are normally and practically protected. For example, in Italy, Barila, it is one of the leading pasta producers in Italy, six years ago she received a court ban on advertising pasta that was claimed to be an elixir of eternal life, so as consumers should not worry about health because all claims on their product have been scientifically proven. The advertising is forbidden by the state's express intervention. We have a lot of similar types of commercials, but I never, I don't know, maybe there were some bans, at least I don't remember, but I'm sure the state should do so in an express way in all such phenomena. Then, penalties charged for breach of the code of good business practice are paid, the percentage of these penalties are paid to the accounts of the alliance and associations that care about consumer protection. In this regard, we have made one amendment, because we believe that it is twice useful as a good reminder to the trader that it no longer works and as a financial incentive to those who care about the protection of consumers' interests that, with other logistics, they also have the necessary financial support. What are the problems with e-commerce in us, which is only at some point, which is in the world in big expansion, especially in the United States, it is really that citizens should be very careful, especially when something is offered for free, when free promotions, products, services, lottery, awards, holidays, lunches, free travel. Usually, fraud is behind all this, and it has shown so far the practice in the world. We have one example where the consumer is indeed a citizen of number one in every sense and where the consumer's paradise is on earth. It's the United States. The Americans believe that the market is the best editor of economic relations among people and that, with a little help from the state, it will lead to wealth of supply, which exists in the United States, low prices and a satisfied consumer. America is deeply concerned about consumer protection and the repression of monopoly. For example, Microsoft paid for their anti-monopol commission finding that it has a monopoly position in the AT sector punishment of, I think, close to billions of dollars, which is really incomprehensible for our monopolies, or for the state to punish one of our monopolies. Second, in America, every ministry has a consumer-protective department, and with us, we have one ministry. They care about the protection of the quality of the product, about medicines to treat, not endanger the health of the patient, about food that is not dangerous, about a suit that will not fall apart after a few clothes, about shoes and boots that won't miss water or snow after the first rain or snow, about a loan that you won't know after two or three months of getting credit what the real amount of war is and how much interest you really have, and not how much interest you're being shown in the bank. The law predicted what everything must stand for on the label of the product, what guarantees must be made for products and services, and information on the financial situation of the consumers owned by the banks must remain a secret. We have also responded in that part of the amendment, believing that there should be all this information on our labels. We have the great powers of the ministry and the inspection services and the court for fraud, but in the case of fraud, fraud is reported to the U.S. Attorney and the fraud usually comes to deserve punishment and as the best warning to those who deal with this kind of call not to pay for cheating on their own citizens. I know that this law needs to be amended and criminal law. But at a time before World War II, at a time when we were the Kingdom's trade craft was something that belonged to the order of the most honorable occupations. When a trader is said to be immediately an association of honesty, justice, not depravity to measure, quality, kindness, service, etc. Then came another time in which traders, especially before private property started again, were state merchants, acted as little gods, while before World War II, the trader waited for the consumer in front of his shop, and then mass consumers waited for a trader who was normally unkind, whom you couldn't ask for any quality, price, anything. It was either take it or leave it. If you don't like it, go home. The market in America is strong. The competition is awesome. The supply of goods and services is so great that the consumer has a choice, so if he does not like the manufacturer or trader who deceives him and asks for an unwarranted high price, he can always go to another. We have it in some areas, but it's not in many areas. Cheating and robbing simply in America and many orderly systems don't pay off. The trade motto that the consumer is always right there is achieved entirely. We're in the middle of it. You can return any product you bought, I've already said that, and you don't have any reason to tell the trader why you're returning it and you get your money back immediately. Many of the problems our country faces are not just our country's problems. These are the problems of all societies in transition, but what is our intention and we will always insist on it as a party of pro-European orientation, which is that in all things we are radically European so that, above all, in the focus of our interest, we will always be a citizen of an individual, in this case the consumer. That's why you find this discussion of mine in the best possible way. As far as the amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications are concerned, we have been particularly sensitive to the provision of illegal data and monitoring and stalking in particular in the 1990s simply because of the fact that many members of my party have given their lives for democratic, European and better Serbia thanks to such illegal behaviour by the state authorities. The litigation of assassinations at the Ibari Masteral, attempts by Mr. Vuk Draskovic's assassination have shown that, by unauthorized listening to phone calls, by listening to mobile phones, those who should have cared about the protection and security of every citizen, including political representatives and political leaders, have just abused these powers given to them by the state in terms of the preparation of the murder, which is absolutely cruel and we are particularly sensitive about these issues, and that is why we will always talk about what can be done only with the permission of the competent court and in the interest of protecting the country's security, when justified, that this information can be used. Although the EU has given 5m euros and left the deadline until 2012 for digitisation... . (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing, television, we think we'll probably, since the minister said that 15 to 20% of the work was done, I guess we'll finally respect this additional deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2829	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, National MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2830	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and fellow MPs, we have heard a lot today about the details of the consumer protection law, and we have heard a lot about the changes and additions to electronic communications and postal services, but what is very interesting is that today we are on the Committee of Commerce, which includes this area of consumer protection, we have had some questions that we have opened, which are not very directly related to this law, and in fact secondaryly show all the problems that can happen in life, and are actually related to the needs of consumers and important roles of the state to protect in fact every consumer. Before I go to the defense at all, after all, some legal solutions to this new model of law, if you look at a little history of this law in Serbia, it is not clear, because by 2000 you had practically no legal solutions from this area, but all rights were resolved and called upon to the Law on Bond Relations, which was from 1978. The first draft law was adopted by Serbia, or by the SRJ in 2002, in order to recall the proposal in 2005 by actually adopting the SAA and signing a member who had to contain a European directive. On 29 April 2008, it practically started to apply to the SAA, and that actually gave us the first legal solution in 2010. Since then, the EU has changed ways and mechanisms to protect consumers with its directives, so it has also amended certain directives. Obviously, there is a great responsibility of the ministry and awareness that this law should have been passed in a new form, not as amendments and additions to the law, but in a completely new form and now we have a model that has practically implemented, transposed 15 European directives. I would point out to you something that perhaps new MPs do not know, and the elderly may have had the opportunity to see, which is a study of consumer policy in Serbia, which is otherwise in the jurisdiction of the then Ministry of Trade. What is interesting is that, with their study as the Centre for European Policies, they have given a good research that has given some recommendations on how to move towards a European level of consumer policy protection in Serbia, which is why certain legal solutions should be made. The mechanisms that European directives mean, we have had the opportunity to hear from my previous colleague, in the countries of the European Union, are different. For example, this area in general in Italy and in the UK is characterized by the work of certain commissions dealing with competition. For example, Scandinavian policy, i.e. Finland and Denmark, implies the existence of a consumer Archives, while countries such as France define in the work of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as well as Sweden. What's interesting about Holland is that it's in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. Obviously, we are in the Balkans and it is obvious that we in society need a consensus on very important issues and legal solutions. This is exactly what the ministry did and made one public debate between 7-8 August 2013 and all those representatives of the NGO sector, i.e. associations interested in this topic, which put their recommendations in a consumer policy study, had the opportunity to implement all these views in this public debate in these legislative proposals. This is what is the essence of this law, which wanted to cover all those solutions, and to protect consumers maximumly. What certain political parties in this Parliament wanted to indicate, that the law would not be applicable, in fact, anywhere, because the very strong role of the state and the ministry that it receives through direct intervention between producers and consumers, that is, traders and consumers, shows the essence of which this law was dealt, but also the will of the state to seduce a row in this area. What's that line look like? I'm trying to explain to my colleagues in practical and everyday life when they asked me -- how is this really going to seduce the state? So that every trader will have to have a record of the advertising that every consumer, who simply has the right to advertise goods, so at a time when you have a disagreement with the trader, and very often we have it, we won't be able to always resolve the relationship between traders and consumers, but therefore there is also a Consumer Protection Association, so there is an official duty to initiate a administrative procedure which is why you simply want the trader to bring a legal provision, where he is committed to you. The second part of the story is that there is this out-of-court, or mediator relationship of the state between the consumer and the trader, where you will try out of the dispute in some way to exercise your right that has not been possible so far. You have the right, if you buy goods outside your seat, to return within 14 days, that you have to get the goods at a specific address within 30 days, or to receive a delivery if you have paid. So those deadlines are exact. Otherwise, these penalties that have been mentioned, and many have not said, range from 300,000 to 2 million dinars. They show that criminal policy, which will nevertheless be the ones that will somehow have to stand still in front of consumers and really want to have a better reference to show to consumers that they are the ones who serve them, rather than the other way around, which has been the case so far. Product quality is a measure of consumer satisfaction. This is simply the measure by which the market defines its business, i.e. the market defines the mechanisms why we are precisely defining ourselves for a particular product. In today's world the economy of the measure of the quality of a product is, in fact, the measure of the organisation, i.e. the company that has the product, which is why it is very important that the producers themselves, or the people who are engaged in the sale, traders of such quality of the goods, have a record of it and a list of the overall composition of each product. But speaking of services, there is always a big problem somewhere, because the service is an immeasurable part of goods and services, or an immeasurable part of the supply and demand in general, and it is very difficult to actually determine what it is that defines the need of consumers. Then when the question of services is, we have here decadently in the law cited tourist service, then it is necessary for the law to be decident, to precisely define the rights and obligations of every producer, or trader involved in the sale of tourist arrangements or when we talk about any other type of service, and it is necessary for the state to be the main hub of the general consumer protection policy. What else should be commended in this law? It should be commended that there will also be a national register of disputes, which so far we have not had any practice at all as regards judicial disputes in this area, but that it is necessary to run that register. On the other hand, it is necessary to carry out the education of both the judge and the lawyer to participate in these court proceedings and it will be necessary for the Ministry of Trade to work very well with the Ministry of Justice as well as with the legal chambers and with the chambers of judges, to simply force them in some way to start judging these processes. If we do not have them, then we do not speak of the law being implemented until the end, although this preventive role of this law is very important. I said that there are certain changes that have been made to this law that we have not practically had so far, which is a threat to consumer safety. That part we had now, let's say, on the Committee, considered through various questions of MPs, through the part that happened now in everyday life, which rarely anyone could have imagined during these floods that there were producers who naturally illegally increased their products 10 times or even 20 times, thinking about the price of water, the price of bread, and who at that time were almost unimaginable for those cities affected by elemental disasters. It wasn't just about ethics, it was about how completely, how to put it, it was simply not about the ethical part, but also that such producers and such commercial activities could continue to work. They are simply consumers who today, when everything is over, have remained amazed at the fact that such actions can function further and that there are simply people who will continue to try to deceive consumers by not choosing the means or the moment when it will happen. Of course, these issues on the Committee itself were more for inspection and for bodies dealing with legal violations, but the same question is that consumer protection should also go into the work of considering the issues of the civil sector. That's what we should be commending that practically the Ministry here in co-operation with the civil sector will work on setting up this area. What is more important, which is that consumer protection associations are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Trade, but that somewhere there is their idea that if we go towards the EU model, it is to be together in the area, in the responsibility of the Competition Protection Committee. It's a long way to go because we need to first see how this whole legislation will live in everyday life and in practice. That is why Serbia is simply heading towards the EU by respecting these directives. But the EU sees in many of its directives how they are implemented that many living situations cannot be covered. That is why it is very important that the ministry that will lead this very important role in protecting consumers through administrative procedures simply lists all the irregularities that are happening, because it is obvious that we are as citizens of Serbia, and also as part of the business and trade that is very imaginative of how to allow our consumers to buy our product by not choosing the means to implement it. What is said in these recommendations in this study is that there are vulnerable groups of citizens who simply easily fall for all the stories you have from traders for greater sales and greater profits. This calls for a very high level of attention and for consumers to be easily protected. What is important is that this law still restores trust in the state and state bodies, somewhere in that part that the Ministry of Trade will take care of you, then really consumers have this relationship that in relations with traders they will always appeal to their legal rights, or rights that they are entitled to. It is still important to implement it in a certain way, and it can be very helpful to the Consumer Protection Association, the education of consumers themselves and what their rights are and what we are asking for of quality, what we are allowed by law. Secondly, it is very important that all the security that consumers have in terms of issues before they make their own purchase have the right and use their right to do so. What is important is that the state must, in addition to this part where it passed the law, consider moving towards the creation of a national consumer protection programme, think of the vulnerable, or vulnerable target groups. At the end of what is important, we need to establish certain statistics, so the state statistics in this area, and that will be the easiest, given that the Ministry will be the main hub of regulation, that is, implementing this law in this area, will have the best record of it and in fact lay the foundations of that statistics. Interdepartmental co-operation is also important. So you will see this in the daily implementation of these laws, which is that you will seek the help of more ministries in these areas to resolve many administrative procedures. This criminal policy should also be commended, for it is only so obvious that our employers, and also citizens, when you have criminal measures, do them. This is what I repeat, anyone who doubts the implementation of this law and the implementation of all these directives that we seek will surely go in a positive direction. As regards the amendments and addition of the laws relating to electronic communications, the rationalisation should be welcomed, the practical merger of two agencies on which my colleague chaired the Committee, whose responsibility she, at the beginning of the presentation, is to welcome the part relating to the fact that many parts of the amendments have been made on the basis of studies of experts relating to the proposal for a potential model of assistance in the process of digitisation of countries and precisely on certain examples of other countries, these amendments and additions have been made. Also, we should welcome the changes and additions relating to postal services for the simple reason that we get a part here that relates to the development of competition and we get a part that applies to the profit of the country itself. By expanding the spectrum of labour performance relating to postal services and records of how much payment traffic, exchange jobs, the one relating to the insurance services themselves, we get the practical availability of all these services in view of the network owned by the Serbian mail. The consumer, every citizen of Serbia will have a practical opportunity, right next to the house, to realize all these jobs. Therefore, this set of laws today, which is on the agenda, will give very positive effects in the state of Serbia. As you can see, it will not give certain financial costs, otherwise it will give revenue to the Republic of Serbia's budget. What's important is that they regulate the market in that part that hasn't been regulated at all so far. So that's when we talk about this law at the beginning, about consumer protection. It is a law that simply opens up a new page of trade relations in Serbia. The ministry is becoming an important pillar of implementation of this law, and Serbia is increasingly moving towards European integration, which is why SNS will support the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2831	We are now moving on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search. The word has the People's MP Dejan Radenkovic, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2832	Thank you, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, as counterpart Djordje Milicevic has already said, authorized in front of the parliamentary group, the SPS will support the unification of the Republic's electronic communications agency and the republican postal transport agency. Given that the essence of these changes is to supplement these two laws. Later in his later address, he will also get a little attached to the Consumer Protection Act, although I can generally agree, as much as it bothers someone, I think a serious law like this should have been considered a little bit more and improved, exploited. As far as I was successful and as far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, we are based on this part of postal traffic and postal services, and in this direction we have invested one amendment, to protect some additional consumers. In addition to those financial reasons and the functional reasons that lead to the unification of these two agencies, I could single out a few more of the essential and most significant things, what is said in the explanation, which is that it is good for citizens to hear that simply, except for BiH, Macedonia, in all euro area countries, these two agencies are connected. I will later say that there are examples that many other agencies are connected, which I think should be in the next period of time the government of the Republic of Serbia's intensity, simply to see what is going on and where the costs are increased. I think that in this purpose of functionality and financial reasons, we should unite further, although it is not good, because we have a case in 2010 when we passed the Law on Electronic Communications, and the Telecommunications Act was in force, and then the name of the agency was changed, which is some of the costs, as it is now going to have certain costs of the new agency, we have to say, as soon as it changes the name. This is essential, because it is two regulatory bodies that regulate very similar network activities, whose markets especially in these current moments, by introducing communication technologies into postal activity, are increasingly overlapping, so it is natural for these two activities to be generated in one place. From the above experience of the regulatory body, the competence for electronic communications in regulating the process of liberalisation, access to state infrastructure, pricing policy and relevant standards will significantly accelerate these processes and in postal activity, with greater guarantees of their more efficient implementation. As you can already see, respected colleagues, by uniting these two agencies, will decrease the number of state officials by five, it's not much, as the minister said in his presentation, it's not some big financial savings, but I'll later specify my own reserve, which is why another organisation that, I don't know what frameworks it works in, where it spends around 100 million per year on state resources, because I think there are savings and that we need to unite it too. What happened, I'm really not familiar with these public debates, and that's why there's been an exemption and that organization, but I'll say, I have no reason to hide, because I've also prepared the materials, so that the public knows, and not to be now that this party is no longer in parliament, because it's a non-parliamentary party, so now let's criticise them, because we were together in power, and I was then a minister, when we passed the law in 2010, when we asked, and I can quote myself, but I'm going to convince a little, and everyone can see it on the open parliament and on our website, that I'm particularly interested in why in the proposal of the Law on Electronic Communications, it's not gonna be regulated to register the national internal domains of the Republic of Serbia. What law regulates their work? Right now, this job, I'm still dealing with what I asked at the time, and today it's working, the NGO that collects some significant and not some 100 million dinars a year, and I can also say how much money is being spent and how much is the board of directors and how much is the average salary, and I think you'll be amazed at how someone spends state resources, which is really, with respect for all these people, because they're not hiding anything, they're doing everything transparently, they're putting it on their website and financial plan for next year, very ambitious and expenditures and incomes, and it's very nice. We have until recently read in the media that the travel agency of the Securities Commission is of value, and here we have exotic destinations when we see where they go and where they participate, and all about the state cost of our money. I doubted some conflict of interest back then, I didn't want to name any names, not today, because I respect the experts in that area, but I think we need to sort that area out, legally regulate it. The minister can't come, whoever, and now, according to his intent, he's leaving something that's state resources to an NGO out there. Maybe I'm mistaken, maybe I'm wrong, and you're gonna make me right, you don't have to answer that question today, but I expect you to see what's going on next, these financial reports don't stand up to anyone. They had an independent auditor, so they replaced him, because, you know, I did a little bit of work, when you start to chat on their reports, and then on the records and boards, and then their conferences held in Moscow, I mean the hotel "Moscow", and then on "Holliday in". These are very interesting things. I'll continue with it, so I don't have anything personal against them. I don't know anyone there. There's about 27 million for last year, and 33 for this year, it's been allocated to employees' salaries, and there's nine on that financial report, I mean those available. 15 million dinars are allocated annually to the board of directors, not to mention the costs of the board of directors and their work. It travels from Zurich, Amsterdam, Stockholm, to Barcelona, Amsterdam, etc. Then some permanent advisory bodies are formed, and these permanent bodies are on the initiative of some members of the conference, which is based on voluntary approach, and are formed, and are also paid for their work. I can tell you what they should be doing, so she says, the kind of subject that brings together working bodies, consultations and supervision in the sphere of finance, consultation and supervision in the sphere of law, and consultation, so that I don't add up any further, because there are a lot of these descriptions, at least as far as marketing activities are concerned, and then further as the state's money is being spent. I claim it's state money, because it's state resources, the internal domain is a state resource, so it says, improving the basic function every year by 20 million, I'm an economist, I don't understand these software, and wherever we're scratching about these software and these promotions of these technologies, there's always a sign of the question, so the development of business is 14 million, so the funding of projects of 7 million, I told you about the salaries of 27 million, the board of directors 14 million, and that's about 14.9, so I said 15 and I don't talk any further. It's without any control of any committee or any resolute ministry. I think, Minister, we should see what we do next. The same thing should have been integrated into RATEL and that RATEL is charging, and they don't have to do anything about it, those Internet providers are willing to work for their interests. Let's not have my discussion just based on R-NIC, I'll continue with RATL. What is not foreseen by the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Communications again, and we have tabled an amendment, by wanting to consult with both you and your ruling majority colleagues, is RATEL an independent regulatory body or is it a public agency? We all know that RATEL has serious problems in further functioning. I'm not a RATEL lawyer, I'm a guardian of the institution, in the previous term I was chairman of the resolution board, those people deliver neat reports, orderly financial plans, we're overseeing this, along with you as a resolute ministry, which means, the moment they went under that pay ban, they were automatically abandoned by experts from that area, from the electrical engineering, by RATEL. I don't want to be too boastful right now, but in 2010, we warned the minister who had some conflicts at the time, which is why, what and what are the reasons, with the management of the RATEL furniture, and then we warned that we were concerned that this bill, then, in 2010, could affect the work of an independent regulatory body and in this respect we are exporting and submitting an amendment in which we are clearly looking to define what the agency is, what is a public agency and what is an independent regulatory body. That question has been ignored and we have come into a situation that we have serious problems today, and you know that, in order for someone to control someone, there are no experts from RATL all moved to work with the operator. We've submitted the amendment, so we'll consult. You know what the Constitutional Court's recommendation says - that they are an independent regulatory body based on what the EU says and what practice is in other countries. So we think they should be included as other agencies, such as the Energy Agency, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Competition Protection Commission, etc. I think they really have a problem. As far as I could see in the last report, they also came to say that, as people go to them, they are granted new employment, as they fall under the Employment Prohibition Act and have a problem with their work. I said I wasn't a lawyer, I'm just warning, as I warned in 2010. I wouldn't want us to have a problem tomorrow on the way to European integration in order for someone to tell us that our independent regulatory body is not working. I'd like to comment on the issue of the proposed unification of these two agencies. In fact, everything that was up front had positive aspects of the merger. I'm going to have to give an example, as far as the other agencies are concerned. In Germany, all network activities are united into one agency. So, telecommunications, post office, energy, railways. At least when it comes to the postal market, I can say that one such organisation allows Germany to have the most liberal and at the same time one of the fastest growing postal markets in Europe. I would be more attached to the postal sector, because I spent a long time in the public company PTT Serbia. I think it's just a matter of majorizing this postal sector when it's integrated into an electronic communications agency. Namely, all of these advantages that I have listed in the pooling of these two agencies can fall into the water if we approach this purely demagogue. When I talk about postal activity, I think of those 1,500 facilities, and there is fellow Ciric, who was one of the successful directors at PTT, in every settlement in Serbia, they are one info-communication and transport connection and when it comes to the Post Office of Serbia, where there are five other global postal operators operating in Serbia, and there are at least four-five private postal operators covering almost all of Serbia's territory with their infrastructure. This is more than 20,000 directly employed and thousands of employees indirectly connected – printing, maintenance of the vehicle, etc. Since it is constantly mentioned that the post office is a monopolies, we must keep the mail in those frameworks in which it operates, but I must mention one very important piece of information. It should be said that "Serb Post" provides 94.5% of services and participates in the total income of only 53.1%, while private postal operators with only 5.5% of the participation in postal services participate in the income of 46.9%. So much for the monopoly, because that's what it's all about all the time. In principle, hold a thief, figuratively. Despite the laws we had, although we had insisted earlier when it came to the Law on Postal Services, four years ago, when fewer amendments to the Law on Postal Traffic were also made, the SPS voted in favour of these proposed changes, with commitments that the representatives of the Ministry at the time took over, to adopt a new postal service law, and then we said that we would vote for changes and supplements without any dilemma, which we unfortunately have when we vote for the proposed amendments and additions. I am telling you as president in the previous term of the Committee of RES, when the Republic Post Office submitted its report, we have repeatedly insisted in our conclusions that the law on postal services be passed as quickly as possible because time has already run him over. We just need to do it as soon as possible, Minister. I don't know if we understand each other why that need is? The last law was passed in 2005, not to mention how many directives have passed in the meantime and not to talk about why we have to protect both the mail and how we protected it in the previous period. Although we had the law, we had to put political pressure on our state and public enterprises not to give it to some operators who were not even registered for this activity. There have been various cases. We can quote, not a problem – Infostan, many companies in Novi Sad. It's about companies where it was simply meant for such things to be punished. And then we warned and gave the amendment and no one wanted to hear us. Twenty thousand dinars were fined if someone didn't act, so for example he carries a shipment to a certain part of the territory, and he won't deliver, because the post office must, even if there's a cost, and he delivers that shipment in Sjenica. The fine of 20,000 dinars is ridiculous, given that the fine is up to 200,000 dinars if the working time is not respected. My colleague informs me that I've overstepped my own time. I'd have a lot more to say, but I'll have a chance to discuss the details. What I would especially like to mention is a technical matter. And that's where we gave these two amendments to bring them into line, because in the Law on Electronic Communications, it says that RATEL should take over within three months and all obligations and employees of the Republic Agency for Electronic... Excuse me, one Republic, one... I don't think it's very specific about the amendment and addition of the Post Office Act. It says that the postal service agency stops working on an automatic day of law-making. Is that right? They have a three-month obligation here. So we just make this space, and we'll look at those amendments and we'll figure out if it's real, we'll give some deadline and RAPUS to settle his obligations over the next three months, to complete some of the procedures that she's started and simply make those commitments and those workers take over. I thank you for your attention. I apologize again for making it a little longer. Let me just once again confirm that the SPS parliamentary group... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2833	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Dejan Radenkovic, from the scene: Did you take my word? I'm sorry, I understand you're done. There was a break, and I understood that you were done. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2834	It is absolutely pointless for such laws to be discussed in an emergency procedure and to have a united debate. I don't know what pain the government of Serbia has caused, I hope it wasn't the idea of a minister, nor the people present here at the ministry, I'm sure it's not, of course, that on Friday afternoon some laws are urgently sent that are, of course, impossible for a serious analysis within two days. So I'm not going to deal with it, because I don't think it's worthy of this home, to get 325 pages of text, which, of course, you can read in two days, but to get serious into the discussion about it, hard. It's like two PhDs, practically, even if they were real. Sixty-five members of the law that, as the proposer himself says, is a completely new text, a new law, is something that cannot be completed to make that analysis in two days. I just looked at what the Ministry had put on itself as jurisdiction. That's where I found the 11th and 12th part of the formula that, of course, existed before, and I don't think there should be any more, at least not in the 21st century. He says he supports it, the ministry supports it. I'd like someone to explain to me what that act looks like, what it means. So, of course, that can be said more precisely in a way that is more appropriate in the 21st century. Of course, consumers in Serbia are not protected. We have as many examples as you want. It's not the law, it's the strict application of regulations. We have, say, an example of an electricity bill from a few months ago. There were noises, there were some amounts of a few million people who hardly had more than five lamps, and then it went away. Neither is he who is punished, nor is it clear to the public whether this money is returned, in what way, whether they have received all who have complained or not. We have aflatoxins as a theme from a year ago. It was a deadline, I don't know who promised that deadline, I don't think this is the Ministry, but someone from the government has promised to have a milk quality lab built by half 2014. As far as I can tell, half the year is in a few weeks, and that lab is not formed, nor are there any announcements that it will be. Of course, competition is an important factor in consumer protection, because without competition, those taking part in the market can practically do what they think of. My question is, what about IKEA for years, almost a decade? What about Lidla? What about those who can bring competition into some parts of our trade? So much for this law. It's completely unserious to go into some deeper analysis. As for the Law on Electronic Communications, even clearer evidence that it is pointless to first enter the same set of laws together with consumer protection and postal services. Here is the topic of protection of freedom and personal data. The law was already in the Constitutional Court once, and the conclusions, opinions and decisions of the Constitutional Court have been reached, which have been declared practically by a law that deeply negatively undermines the freedoms and rights of Serbian citizens. Is that changed now? Can your ministry give us any expert reference to that? I don't think so. It's not your activity, it's not something your ministry should do, and especially such a topic cannot be put on the agenda overnight without a serious, broad debate. There are already headlines on some media, which have already been declared traitors or I don't know what kind of ones, that we're re-administering a law that's going to be counter-constitutional. That's not good. Finally, there's a part about the set-top-boxes that should help poor people to watch TV. I don't think you should do that. So far, any assistance from this species has been misused for political purposes. It's a job for providers, for operators. They will find, if it costs really five, six, seven, ten euros, they will find the providers of interest to buy it for people who can't do it alone, to get full coverage of our entire market. I repeat, I ask the Government and ask Parliament's leadership not to invite us to extraordinary sessions within 48 hours of laws requiring public debate, serious consideration, expert debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2835	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2836	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the laws that are in front of us today. I'll put forward a brief summary of the reasons why I'm doing it, and I'll ask one question, or I'll make one note for the ministry. I support these laws because for direct implications they benefit our citizens. First, the Consumer Protection Act provides for measures to improve the legal protection of consumers themselves. Furthermore, new options are introduced for consumers to act in case of any disputed situation, but some legal deadlines are defined, again in a way that corresponds to the consumers themselves. In addition, new standards stemming from European legislation have been introduced, which have come into force in the period between the adoption of the previous law and today, which is also commendable. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, we have more solutions on which the professional public and interested parties worked together in the previous period and all answers to all asked questions are of exclusive quality and good. What important questions are we talking about here? First, the Constitutional Court's opinion on Article 128 of the current law was adopted, meaning the member concerning the detained data. This opinion has been adopted and a solution has been proposed to introduce a new mechanism, mechanism of control, or protection through the presence of the necessary request by the court to remove the problems identified by the Constitutional Court as such. We are facing a solution that envisions the merger of two agencies, former RATEL and RAPUS into a new agency. As we had the chance to hear today, it's a new step towards rationalization, which we all agree on here. We may disagree to a lesser or greater extent on the level of savings that will be achieved, but the savings will be certain and it is not disputed for anyone. Then, the rational and economic use of spectrum on a technologically independent basis, which is also an important prerequisite, is a prerequisite that tomorrow when we introduce some new solutions, new systems, it is in a way that is best for our citizens and for the right price, again observed through the prism of the interests of the citizens themselves. What I am very pleased with is that through this text of the law we have touched the question of our obligation to successfully resolve the process of digitization, to successfully bring it to an end within the required deadline, which, I agree, is of paramount importance. In this regard, I agree with the comments tabled by fellow MPs and further elaborated by the minister. This is extremely important not only because it is our important international obligation, but because it is a fundamental issue. If we bring this job to an end in the right way, next June we're going to have a territorial transmission, a broadcasting radio in the right way, and it's going to work, and we're not going to do it the right way, and we're going to welcome June next year, and none of us here is an option. I therefore call on us to work together in order to meet the required deadlines to take every effort needed by common forces and to regulate this important issue in the best possible way. Also, the criteria for supporting socially endangered citizens have been discussed when it comes to the procurement of the STB unit, i.e. the set-top-boxes we talked about today, it is not realistic that there can be any objection to this kind of thinking and this solution. We are talking about solidarity aid, a measure that will represent an important solution for people who need help to remain integrated in general when moving on to a new diffusion system, in order to be able to continue monitoring the program. In this proposal, in this way of thinking, therefore, in thinking of helping there is nothing and can't be anything controversial. My question, Mr. Minister, is the matter that we have discussed today with our associates, your co-workers to the representatives of the ministry on the Committee of Resolution, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Infrastructure, Traffic and Telecommunications, and I believe that in a very good atmosphere we have achieved a high level of understanding in the nature of this issue. Among other things, one of the previous speakers mentioned the same thing. It is about the way it is defined in this legal solution, a precisely defined role, or status of a new agency. It is precisely cited as the role of an independent regulatory organisation. It is something that is the solution that is expected of us, it is something that meets European standards. When it comes to the harmonisation of our legal flows with the EU, I will now quote the proposer's explanation for one of these laws: "The EU Directive foresees the mandatory existence of independent regulatory bodies in those areas. So it is in full agreement with what is considered, for example, mandatory solutions." In the same article of the law there is still a position, which has been taken from the previous solution. In that view, it is said that the Agency is operating in accordance with the rules on public agencies. My question about this is – do you notice that there is any, I will not say, problem, but is there a possibility, that tomorrow the question here is whether one thing bothers the other, or whether it is mandatory for these allegations to be handled in accordance with the rules on public agencies, did we accidentally enter the space of independence of this regulatory body, which is expected, or not? If, considering this issue, you have already concluded that there are no problems here, I would ask that we comment briefly, and if you consider that there is a reason to warn anything about this matter, that we may have an impact on this position, I call on only the Ministry to do so, not only because it is most called to deal with this issue, not only because it will only lead to talks that can touch this subject, but because today it is the only mechanism available, if we should deal with this attitude. Whether or not you need to, I say one more time, that's something the final word should give the Ministry. Why isn't there another mechanism? It is about taking over material, literally taking over, from a previous legal solution that we cannot discuss further through the amendments today, that is to say, to influence them, not the MPs, not the resolution committees. The only way, if you think anything should be done, done, is if only the ministry does so until the day we discuss details. Finally, in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services, in addition to the fact that the proposed material defines the mechanisms necessary to adopt in order to implement the necessary, expected, desired, targeted fusion of these two agencies into a new body. A body that will point out by its name that it is a regulatory body in the way it is expected to be defined, to do so by our European conversators. Here, additionally, the introduction of new services for postal operators is provided, which is also undeniably good, not only because of a better offer, but because in this way competition is directly encouraged, which is important for our citizens as users. Suma sumarum, three legislative proposals, each bearing solutions that represent an improvement and improvement in the state we have so far. For this reason, I call for all of us to support them, and as far as the misunderstanding I have made is concerned, I am confident that the ministry will remove it in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2837	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2838	I'll try to answer some of the questions that were raised here. I'll start with this last one. A previous Socialist Party MP also raised the issue. In our original proposal, RATEL, as an independent regulatory body, was not subject to the Public Agency Act. The Legislative Secretariat felt that this solution was impossible for legal reasons, because RATEL must operate either under the Law on Public Agencys or under the Law on State Administration. We stand at the point that Ratel needs to be excluded, but I don't think in a legal sense it will be possible to do so. That's where you knock on the open door, but here it's legal, not some other problem. Mr. Zivkovic mentioned a few things. It is absolutely true that the Consumer Protection Act will not solve consumer problems. It's a much deeper and more complex story, but what we've been trying to do with this law, it's to strengthen it with new instruments, mechanisms, make it more efficient than the previous law, although it's clear that it's not a guarantee. Many more preconditions need to be achieved for this law to fully live in practice. As far as this Electronic Communications Act is concerned, and the part concerning access to data. We had a long public debate that led to a long debate, primarily independent regulatory bodies. The whole story was initiated by the Commissioner for Public Information. On this basis, the Constitutional Court adopted this decision on the non-constitution of certain solutions to the previous law. We believe that we have respected all these proposals, suggestions and opinions that are now incorporated into the text of this law, in line with Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second step is to keep that record on all requests for access to data. That record will also have access to independent regulatory bodies, and I think Parliament can exercise proper control over these approaches to electronic communications, or retained data. We've created enough legal grounds, enough protection. It is now time for practical implementation of this provision. As for the Setoboxes, your concern stands and is shared by us. There are two problems: can we secure money for this and the way to divide it? You're absolutely right. There's a big space for abuse. At this point, to be honest, we don't have that solution. We don't know what resources we're going to have, and we don't know what number of people this applies to. True, we have plenty of time to do that, but at this point, there is no safe solution in which these Setoboxes are divided and there are no financial and political abuses. What we know is that all countries have resorted to this and assisted socially endangered categories of the population in providing these devices, so that they can receive digital signals. There were stories here about registering national domains. Mr Radenkovic, about the register of national domains, in a formal legal sense, the solution we now have is in accordance with our regulations and in accordance with European standards. Is that a rational solution? Let me tell you right now - it's not. We have absolutely one irrational solution, where a private company makes a profit. It is not illegal, absolutely not, even in line with EU standards. We have situations like this, but from the point of view of the state's interest, we have an irrational solution. Mr. Ciric mentioned several important issues, he knows far better than I do, access to the network of a public postal operator. This, I'm sure you know better than I do, regulated by the Third Post Directive. The directive has been applied by some non-EU countries, primarily by Macedonia and Montenegro. Is that a risk to "Serb Mail"? It is, above all, open to fierce competition, and at the same time this competition will probably open a space for better, better quality services, more investment in technology and the development of the public enterprise itself. Therefore, this is a alignment with the European directive with all the concerns that you have brought forward regarding the continued business of PTT, but I hope that PTT will also succeed in showing its own, let's not say dominant position, but its real economic strength. It was also a question of the relationship of this law with the Law on Bond Relations, the Consumer Protection Act. This law is a lex specialis in relation to the Law on Liabilities and everything that is not governed by the Consumer Protection Act will apply to the Law on Liabilities and in this respect we do not have any legal void. Also, consumer and trader relations will always be subject to the Consumer Protection Act, even if some sectoral law defines the same area, but then what is more favourable to the consumer will be applied regardless of solutions in one or another law. Also, Mr. Ciric mentioned some remarks regarding the position of the consumer protection organisation in this law. We believe that here we found one balance between past solutions, where everything was in the state, it was in the 2005 law, absolutely the state or market inspection had the highest power in the area of consumer protection. Since this was not in line with European standards, changes in laws and the adoption of laws in 2010 have all been transferred to consumer protection organisations and this has proved ineffective in practice. Now we have come to look for one solution that represents a compromise between these two extremes. So, to make the law more effective, and in no way question the situation, the legitimacy of the consumer protection organisation, which plays a role, above all in applying for the protection of collective interests in the field of unfair business practice and unfair contractual provisions. Moreover, consumer protection organisations are indeed in a partner relationship with the state and in this situation because they participate in the work of the National Council, because they have the very ability to give advice, especially without the influence of any state authority and will participate in the work and local commissions at the local level for the first time, and in this vertical structure, we want them to be represented from municipal to central authorities in the work of different commissions dealing with consumer interests. I think I've responded to most of what's been pointed out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2839	Thank you. Master Dejan Radenkovic answered the words. On what grounds? (National MP Dejan Radenkovic, from the post: I think I am right. ) The minister answered everyone’s questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2840	Minister, thank you for your response. With all due respect, I don't want any more texts running around the paper about what the RANIC is and how it's income and how money is spent. I asked you simply - which law regulates their work? How did that happen? Maybe it's an investigational object. How could the minister trust such an area to an NGO, i.e. The foundation, they're called the foundation and they manage state resources? Since I didn't make it back then, I'll tell you now. Do you know what the average salary of a gross salary is there? According to what I see from the financial reports it says that 22 million is 254 and if we add more contributions it will come out a little bit more, but 206,000 is the average salary for them nine on this financial report. For the board of directors, the average of 137,000 is gross. Is that normal? This is where we cut our salaries to teachers, to health workers, and now we're going to keep some people who receive, we don't know what the money's for. Internet providers work for them. They're earning something that's state-owned. I don't want to get any further. Please let us see in the next period to break this practice. Who knows how many more cases there are in this country, and here we're going to fuck the poor people, the workers' salaries. We need to systematically access everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2841	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2842	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, is the satisfaction of the opposition whenever MPs dispute with each other and with the government they support. Today's debate, my colleagues have repeated it several times, is made in an incorrect atmosphere. The laws we have received for the weekend, very important laws, the Consumer Protection Act, that is a system law that requires and an analysis of the MPs, but also respecting what they may be interested in, above all the consumer associations said about this law and to see if their demands are respected. That, Minister, is not respected and I believe that you, as much as the President of the National Assembly, are responsible for the fact that we are discussing in this atmosphere today a very important law with contributions of more than 300 pages. We've done our best reading for weekends and nights and weekends to submit 20 and some amendments. However, I must admit that we have certainly not implemented the law until the end, that I am not talking about two more laws on electronic communications and a bill on amendments to the Law on postal services. This relationship of yours, that is, the government's relationship to the National Assembly, is not news at all. That's how the rest of the law comes to us, very important. So came our amendments to the National Councils Act. At that time, it is said, although almost the same number of provisions has been amended as in this law, half of the provisions have not been passed in the adoption of a new law and are then amended and amended, which means that you do not have a unique methodology when it comes to government. However, let's talk about this Consumer Protection Act and what its purpose is. In order to have the Consumer Protection Act, you must have consumers. Right? And consumers are, according to the Consumer Protection Act, a natural person who supplies goods or services on the market for purposes other than its business or other commercial activity. Mr. Minister Ljajic, your government, this and the previous one, has done everything possible to make such citizens less and less. There are fewer citizens who can get goods on the market, above all, relating to personal needs, such as the most basic food and hygiene products on the market, because they're brought to the edge of the social category and they don't get goods, they go to lunch in folk cuisine, if there are. In that sense, you're pretty much, not only you, but your government, has come up with a consumer law. What kind of goods do they buy when they buy it? Cheapest. Where? Most often on the black market, in the markets, nylon markets, flea markets, because they don't have the money to pay for goods in regular stores. Markets like that are getting more and more. The black market is getting bigger and bigger than ever, Mr. Minister, and don't do anything to contain it and help these small sellers survive, but you charge them extra to keep the black market alive and to make the market for products whose quality we can't determine, products that are often of very suspicious quality. Where are your inspectors, Minister Ljajic? Where are the inspectors of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? They're nowhere to be found. You have a small number of inspectors, a fragmented inspection service and no one lives knows who should determine the question, say, and to protect consumers until the end when it comes to non-quality products and when it comes to some other problems affecting customers. In that sense, we have made many suggestions in our amendments on how to fix this law. Let's just say, there's nothing about hygienic and health security in the shopping facilities, and she's, I can tell you, at a very low level. From those baskets where the customers hold the goods, the cart, to the tapes on the registers, no one controls it, even in chains that represent something at world level. In our market, they behave the way they're allowed, because the state doesn't work. We will not support these laws, above all for the reasons that I have stated and which my colleagues have stated, which is the fact that we could not make sure that they are in accordance with the Constitution and the law, especially when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communication. That is why we hope that such laws will no longer reach the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2843	I thank Dr. Veselinović. Now I'm giving a regular break for an hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2844	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. In the order of speakers, MP Ivana Dinic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) Then, Borislav Stefanovic. Okay, he's not here either. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank first and foremost those who are not here because I've come to order before. Usually I wait patiently and usually they're polemic, so I have to wait for my colleagues to break down. So, of course, I'm going to vote for these three laws and try to explain the reasons. As far as consumer protection is concerned, I believe that consumer safety will increase when purchasing, but we will not solve all consumer issues with this law. So many other laws need to be amended, for example, by consumers, by setting an example of meat. Frozen meat in the European Union has a six-month period, with 12 months in Serbia. If our consumers eat what in Europe has a shorter duration, and in a certain way we become some kind of waste basket, that what they do not eat in the previous six months our consumers buy, and thus because I am the president of the People's Peasants' Party, directly endangers meat production, because that kind of meat is far cheaper than the meat we produce and which is fresh. So it directly affects the state of our stock fund on agricultural production. We have this practice, we need to protect consumers, we need to protect them in a certain way and some of our production in ways that we are allowed to do and in ways that are not contrary to European Union regulations and other regulations. So, we should provide for our production in some way, that as far as we can farmers produce enough agricultural products, enough in warfare, vegetables, fruit growing, livestock production, and that workers process what we can in the fields and in the stables and in such a way come up with solid wages, or to pay back debts, service some of our own obligations, and also to ensure that our people have enough money, enough bread, and that they can obtain goods, that in such a way they protect social and economics, that they have enough money to buy not only foreign goods, but to buy domestic goods, and that through the purchase of domestic goods they generate and certain profits, a certain additional value that will be distributed between farmers and workers, but money in one way or another will come to all of us. We need to avoid the following practice on behalf of consumer protection, to enorm ourselves abroad, and to buy for someone else's money through foreign trade chains, because then there is no development of domestic production. So, apart from these envisaged consumer protection laws, of course, as someone who deals with agriculture, I suggest that we pay more attention to domestic production in the future and get as much goods on our market as possible. As far as the Telecommunications Act is concerned, electronic telecommunications, I will certainly support him. It's good that these two agencies are uniting together, that we have one, that there are various savings, etc., but I also suggested that the excess income be referred to the dedicated budget for the development of information. I hope that the legislator will accept this kind of amendment, that this surplus income is intended for the telecommunications ministry, that the development of information in this new business area is being fully developed, and that has recently become very profitable everywhere in the world, including with us. As for telecommunications and operators, I also support the part where the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional certain data recording, but I have to warn operators and those who control the operators, that if they happen to hear the contractions, that it is not a malfunction in equipment, that it is not a malfunction in frequencies, it usually cramps the bowels of the people, so they do not have to change the equipment, and they are paying attention to it, because lately hunger is not a protest phenomenon, but it is becoming a universal phenomenon in Serbia. There is no more fasting in Serbia only during the big post, but the previous regime with transition masters allowed our people, workers and peasants almost to fast throughout the year and that this is no longer a church issue, but the issue of failed politics. As far as the Postal Services Act is concerned, I'll definitely support it. There have been some complaints about some doctorates here, the one who involved some doctorates in these three areas is completely wrong, it has nothing to do with it, and it's the last person to call on the Doctors of academic titles. I think he's primarily a patient for some other kind of doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2846	The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2847	I will pay particular attention to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, because I believe that security in all modes of traffic is one of the main grounds for sociological development and progress of society, the rights and freedoms of every citizen in particular, especially in the information age, in which we live today. We believe that the planned amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications should be used to correct certain irregularities, failures and inconsistencies in the applicable legal text, which have emerged during its application so far. The Law on Electronic Communications needs to be amended and complemented in such a way as to reflect the amended and updated provisions in relation to those that exist in the European Union today in the field of communication, in particular with regard to the part of the law governing the security and data protection, as well as access to retained data. I will take this opportunity to point out once again that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the secrecy of communication with all authorities in the Republic of Serbia. We have repeatedly appealed to this and therefore I believe that this bill is actually a healthy legal basis for the safe development of electronic communications. It is particularly important to point out that this proposal for a law has taken place through correspondence and dialogue with the general public, whose competence is in the field of electronic communications. I support the will and transparency of the work of the competent ministry to amend the current Law on Electronic Communications, in accordance with the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision, as it will regulate the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular the right to privacy and confidentiality with regard to the processing of personal data in the Electronic Communications Sector, but also ensure the free movement of such data and electronic communications devices and services. It is precisely coming from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the infrequence of the secrecy of communication, the importance of data security, but also from the personal belief that it is high time for this area to be properly regulated, the SPS will support this bill in the voting day. What I might point out as a constructive suggestion is the regulation of the obligation to form and run a register of public telephone operators' subscribers' services, including the customers of SIM cards, as the present practice opens a wide range of space for unlimited and mass abuses, threats, fraud, and in many EU countries and Member States, this problem is resolved by introducing mandatory registration when buying a SIM card at the very point of sale. Also, there is another benefit to the adoption of this bill. In fact, it is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia took the obligation to review the need for the retention of regulatory bodies in 2012 and, accordingly, to consider proposals to streamline and reduce the costs of the Republic of Serbia's budget. A unique position and the creation of conditions for uniting the work of the authorities of the Republic agencies into one regulatory body, instead of in two regulatory bodies, has provided greater efficiency in the work of the authorities of the state administration and other public authorities, which is also the practice of most EU countries. Our country has also committed itself to switching from analogue to digital broadcasting of TV programmes, no later than June 2015. This means that every household that depends on earth's transmission is required to obtain a STB device. It's a device that actually represents a receiver for receiving a digital signal. However, we must consider and be aware of the difficult economic situation currently in which the Republic of Serbia is and we must consider not only the degree of poverty, but also the degree of geographical inaccessibility of many areas and households. Unfortunately, many of our citizens are unable to obtain and install digital television reception equipment, but this must not lead to these citizens and these families being socially excluded. That is why this bill also provides for the assistance of the Government of Serbia, according to different models of subsidies for vulnerable groups of people, in the form of financial assistance for the purchase of necessary equipment, for beneficiaries of social assistance, for families that exercise the right to a child's allowance, the right to an allowance for other people's care, refugees, internally displaced persons, nursing households in the country. Of course, the setting of criteria for the definition of endangered consumers in the purchase of equipment for receiving digital television signals will be carried out in accordance with the consumer protection regulation. For all of this, the SPS will support and vote in favour of all draft laws in the context of this joint search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2848	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2849	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have here three laws that, as some of my colleagues have spoken today, and I'm sure you're getting along somewhere, have indeed brought completely inexplicable by emergency procedure. It is not clear to us, I would like you to answer why this has to be done, why there has been no more thorough debate about everything that is proposed here, which is not insignificant, and why this government that you represent today has been in this manner lately to submit legislative proposals to the Assembly without any public debate. I also don't understand the need for all the ministers in the Serbian government, of all promises, announcements and everything else, to always find Minister Ljajic as the minister who seems to be agilely bringing regulation from his area, and those huge announcements and a huge number of laws, which are to come, we cannot see them at all. We often associate with you about changing regulations that could, without any anger, be left behind in maybe a month or two later. It's an inexplicable thing to me. I'd like you to look back on that. This regulation that exists here is quite clear and precise, you've really tried, and I have to say that there is significant progress, especially in relation to the Consumer Protection Act. This law is new, but there is one flaw that I think is significant and that you know, which is a lack of defining the possibility of collective consumer protection through collective lawsuits. This is something that none of the colleagues have talked about today, which is one of the basic things, and if you will, in European legislation enables consumers to come to the achievement of their rights and compensation for damages through a collective lawsuit. This law doesn't have it in it, because that provision is unconstitutional and declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, I don't know what time ago. Again, we have a situation similar to that of some of the other ministers who have been coming here, relying on a change in some other regulation so that something that is their domain, a portfolio, should be done, which should be foreseen for the rights and interests of Serbian citizens. In this case, it's a law of litigation. It may mean a few things, or there is no coordination with the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice has no time to deal with the Law on a litigation procedure that has long been announced, or you just have to regulate this thing, because it's a European legal process and if you want, something that puts your life pressure on. What do we do now? Until the Law on Prosecution is changed, if I understand correctly, it is the fact that the provisions on collective action are poorly formulated in the Law on the Prosecution, and such provisions have been rejected and rejected as unconstitutional. It is possible through the organization and through the collective measures of the Ministry, and you know that it exists as an option, but it has proved to be insufficiently inaccurate and something that does not meet the needs, above all, organisations that gather and protect consumer rights, which are developed in all European countries. There is therefore a question of redistribution and compensation of damages between those affected by organisations themselves. These are all things that are not feasible now, in this legislative proposal which, in addition, there are no significant grudges, at least let me say on my part. I think this is a matter of great importance, that people who are trying to protect themselves from significant violations of consumer rights around foods that do not correspond to their raw materials, about the mass technical problems that exist in technical goods, about the protection related to electricity bills that we have seen, and as colleagues have said, nothing alive has happened after that, that the public knows, or has been responsible, or for such bills for electricity, or for the harassment that has been given to Serbian citizens. This way, when you don't have the possibility of a collective lawsuit, the question arises who will pay it, how many users, damaged citizens, will be able to pay a court fee, go into the process on their own, sue and exorcise justice. In Serbian courts, business, unfortunately, inefficient, buried, pending cases, although judicial reform has been announced. We have endemic growth in the black market and we have terrible shortages in our inspection services. The shortcomings are in the number of perpetrators, within their jurisdiction, of a situation where these people, although working 48 hours a day, as prime minister, cannot cover everything they need to cover as inspectors in our country. Without clear, well-defined, motivated and organised and numerous inspection services, there is no democracy in Europe. You cannot leave someone who persistently violates the rights of citizens or, in this case, the rights of consumers, the awareness that he himself is changing it, because he thinks it should or should not. There's supposed to be an effective inspection service, it's gone now, Minister, and you know it, and it's a huge shame. I think you as a minister should now, in my opinion, say something about solving the problem of collective lawsuits, i.e. the inability to apply them. I know you know very well what the problem is. It is a major complaint, in my opinion, this draft, and I think it could be removed by the fruit, by co-ordination between the two ministries, and that this matter has already been resolved once, that people can normally, organizedly, come to their rights. In Serbia lately, to be precise, in the last two years citizens have shown a high degree of self-organization in protecting their rights, which means two things. One's good, one's bad. The good thing is that citizens have awareness of their rights, that they learn fast how to fight for those rights sometimes in front of a court in Strasbourg, and sometimes on sandbags. The other bad thing is that the state is not organised at the level that citizens are able to organise themselves and it is devastating for the state of Serbia. This is the result of decades-long neglect not only of the regulation, but of its implementation above all. Javaschluk, inefficientness, nelado. It's just that the state is cramping us in a lot of trouble. When you add to that inefficient state administration, when you add slow courts to that, when you add to that the police report, then you have what you have today and that's that gray image of our reality. I have to look back on that. I think the big problem is law enforcement in practice because of this. I think it's facing a negative end to a good idea. I think that you, Minister, are able to connect the thread between institutions, which is not simple, to allow this regulation to live at all. Without a collective lawsuit institute, his enabling, this will be just paper and nothing more than that. I wanted to ask you and the things that concern what is a huge problem filling our budget, which is the growth of the gray market, the black market, whatever you want. We're glad you're here and you always respond and come to the Assembly personally, which I think is a good thing. You could at least tell us a little bit what you're doing in your vault in the domain of what you're doing planning to sort this thing out somehow. What happened to trying to influence the market, to the margins, to everything that you've talked about in very detail in public, which puts a lot of pressure on our citizens? Unfortunately, not you personally, but often the response from the government was – it's a matter of the market, we can't interfere. You remember there were unsuccessful attempts with SOS markets. It's quite a misdemeanor. I'm interested as a citizen, or if you want to be a Democrats, do you have any kind of plan or vision, since I noticed that you've made an effort in your portfolio to do as much as possible in a short time without asking for justification in that sense of regret because you're part of the regime and I have to commend it? On the other hand, this lack, it seems to me that it is clear to you, I don't know why we avoided it in the debate so far, must be resolved. We have a pooling of two regulatory bodies. That's good. We also haven't heard what this specifically means for budget savings. You've heard about this fund, the National Domain Agency Foundation, it's scandalous. How many other agencies are there that are spending state, our, civil money, and that no one has control over what they're spending on, what trips, what they're paying for? I think you need to try and work it out. I know it's Auggie's stables and to clean it up, someone's gonna have to act like Hercules, like Mrs. Puck said. But I'm afraid our Hercules is busy in the verbal war with the OSCE, so you will have to, Minister Ljajic. Also, I think we've been confronted with the promise of abolishing many agencies. Here's an example. We now have something that has already been done during the previous government where you were also a minister, which is that a couple of agencies merge, but that the number of employees and costs are not reduced. We have a similar situation now. I'm not talking about functional justification. I think it's functionally justified, but is it justified that you have that number of employees, this kind of spending on certain items that I don't think are transparent enough. Faced with this example, which I'm glad came from one of the parties that make up most, really a man needs to wonder what's going on here. Also, I will use your presence, although you know that I have been very positive for your work in all the governments in Serbia so far, to ask you about this case of Dr Bozovic, who competed in your ministry. You know what this is about. I wouldn't go into detail. I'll just say it's an electrotech doctor who had an average of over nine. He hasn't been admitted to you, and apparently someone from your party who's a philosopher by profession has been admitted. I think it would be convenient if when there were already supposed to be an organized media hack on the government, here's at least you can clear that segment here in front of the MPs. I think it would be useful. Please, if you can answer about the black market that is growing unfortunately, the grey economy that is growing in Serbia and answer about allowing collective lawsuits for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2850	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2851	As for collective lawsuits, I have nothing to add to what you said. That's all true. If you look at our first bill, you can see there's an institute of collective lawsuits. We felt that this was the best form of protection for the collective interests of consumers, but you yourself pointed out that the Constitutional Court has declared a whole chapter in the Law on Prosecution unconstitutional, which speaks of collective lawsuits and we have had to change that head in law and to make some compromise we have kept the Institute of collective consumer protection in the domain of unfair business practice and unfair contractual provisions. Otherwise, the 2009 EU directive recognises the right, allows for court or administrative proceedings when it comes to the collective interests of consumer protection. Since we couldn't do it here in a formal legal sense, I agree it was better, but there's simply a legal obstacle that we couldn't remove at this point. As for the inspection services, also something new to tell you. We had an internal debate during that government before 2012, so from 2008 to 2012, how to reform inspection services in Serbia. There are two models that have been implemented as possible models that we have in EU countries. One is that we have a general inspectorate that would include all inspection services and another model that is a compromise solution, that existing inspection services reform, modernise and establish better coordination than they are now, because at this point each of these services is doing completely independent of each other, without any coordination, and then it happens in practice that in five days you have five different inspections that visit whether one businessman, trader or any economic operator. Completely irrational, illogical, and ultimately, a bad business environment is being created in the country. Now both options are on the table. Surely the General Inspectorate's option would be far better. I don't know at this point how much more realistic she is, given the larger procedure that would have to be done. A general remont would have to be made for all inspection services, and you yourself know the resistance. A large number of people work in these services that fear every change, every reform. This is about a serious reform. Literally turning the entire system upside down. But it is certain that one service cannot reduce the grey economy. One inspection can't do anything about it. We have formed a special group in the ministry that deals with reducing the grey economy, but believe me, it won't be too much use if we don't do something in general when we talk about all the inspection services in the country. As for Dr Bozovic, the point is that there was a competition at the ministry. The man asked to come to me. I didn't know what occasion. I took him in. He showed me the documents that he applied, that he wasn't admitted and that a man from my party was admitted. At the same time, I canceled the competition. Believe me, I didn't know who was admitted, but it was exactly what he said. I canceled the contest. The competition has been repeated. I don't know who's been admitted. I don't think he's a party man. I know we've been asking about Dr Bozovic at the institutions and companies he worked with. It may not be nice what I'm about to say, but we've got a more or less negative grade than anyone he's ever worked for. I don't know who's in. There are people from the ministry, maybe they can help me, but believe me, I have no idea who's in and if he's ever competed in that re-competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2852	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2853	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Guest, I would like to refer two criticisms to these bill proposals concerning certain principles, the functioning of this Assembly, and I would like to really, even if you have said so, once again offer answers to these questions. I believe that these bill proposals that we are discussing today in the context of a joint principled search and by emergency procedure are too important, very serious, to apply the urgent procedure and to discuss all these drafts of the law, Mr. Minister, in the context of a joint principled search. I read the explanation. I find it unacceptable to argue and decide on an urgent procedure under these proposals of the law. I will remind you when an emergency procedure has been proposed for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 167 says: "A law that regulates issues and relations can be passed following an urgent procedure, resulting from circumstances which could not be predicted, and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations, as well as in order to comply with international obligations and comply with EU rules." I have carefully read the contents of these draft laws, as well as an explanation for the emergency procedure. For example, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications states: “The reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure: The adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed in accordance with the member team and team, having in voodoo maximumisation of the effects of budget savings in the current year and the need to establish an organisation and work of the newly established regulatory agency for electronic communications, postal services, etc., etc.” In this explanation, for this proposal to amend and supplement this law, I do not notice anything in Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Our Rules of Procedure, Rule 154, finestly provides for a regular procedure, which implies that when the Government sends a bill, MPs have 15 days to read, consult with professionals, to propose perhaps a better solution during that time period. We have a situation here that the government sent on June 6th, Friday, who knows what time it arrived here, on Saturday we learn that the session is already on Monday about three serious draft laws here and we should discuss and decide. Mr. Minister, I don't think it's a good practice for the government to act this way. I thought that by your performance, by defending the law from your portfolio you could offer a different and better practice. And I'm sorry that we don't have a better practice today than what the government's been doing since it's been formed in these 40 days. The other thing is, I'm sorry I have to stick to some principles in the functioning of the National Assembly, and I don't have time, because I only have five minutes to get into the content analysis of these bill proposals. We have an explanation as to why a common principle search is necessary. I think he also came from your parliamentary group, from a parliamentary group of parties whose president you are. Look, we have three draft laws. It explains that all these draft laws are interlinked and conditional. But, Mr. Ljajic, when I read this bill on consumer protection and when I hear this explanation, we can link it to it. We can wait here for the government to prepare the proposals of many laws from early resolutions and unite everything in a joint principled search. I think it would be at least a little more responsible to the citizens of Serbia, and also to the MPs representing the interests of these citizens, that the government has left little more time. I don't think these 15 days are going to save so much money to bring the budget, that we couldn't use 15 days to maybe come together to a much better content of all the three draft laws we're talking about today. If it is not possible to change anything about this today, I hope that you personally in future practice, on behalf of this government, will perform by offering much better practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2854	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2855	I'm really sorry about what came about the emergency procedure. There was no intention of MPs getting acquainted with the bill's proposals. And I was saying that this public debate took an objectively long, even longer than it would have been appropriate, because they would have brought up all three legislative proposals earlier. But in the desire that both the professional public and all interested give their own judgment and evaluation, it lasted unusually long. I'm sorry the MPs didn't get a chance to get to know each other. I accept that kind of remark, but it's come from a desire to adopt all those legal solutions and suggestions that we've announced in the past few days. I expect new legal proposals will arrive from the government. At this point, these were laws that were ready for adoption, but I accept the remark that it was better that the MPs had come to know the texts of all three legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2856	The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2857	Dear Chairman, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members, I would like to take part in this debate on the Consumer Protection Act so far. I think that law is very important, even more important than we might be directly experiencing. We have been in many situations so far that we may not pay enough attention to him and simply act casually in everyday and practical life. I think the law is extremely important and important and in any case, I now propose its comprehensive proposal and adoption, just as it, as it is, touches every segment of human life. At every moment, wherever we meet, either in the store, in some services we get, etc., we care about this very relationship that exists between whoever is the seller, who is the provider of some services, and all of us, no matter when and at some point of the day, we are at some point both consumers and service users. We have been present in previous periods to take place in everyday life and that as citizens we are exposed to various types of abuses, hidden quality of goods and products we buy, their short duration of time, even selling them when the legal deadline expires. We were exposed to various forms of advertising that even misrepresented the consumer to certain products, its quality, length of life, the way it was used, the quality of the product itself, etc. For all these reasons, I believe that the law is necessary and regardless of what is one of the "entih" versions, it is good that in this situation it is in line with both the modern and new EU regulation itself. What I think is important when it comes to this is that the law has to give a certain legal framework. But beyond that is the question – how will we continue to behave with him and apply him, what sanctions will he produce in life for moments and all forms of behavior when he is not respected and what consequences will he respect? The consumer himself, or each of us, as a citizen, must not be experienced by anyone who provides a service or who is a seller as a target group to be deceived, as a target group that should in some way be demeaned or not given the service offered in the declaration or in market traffic itself. When it comes to this, for example, we've had a life situation to buy fruits and vegetables that may be of dubious quality. As we exercise control of their validity, whether it is, let's say, whether it is from some areas that are not high enough, which is polluted, which may have been used before the expiry of that period of time, karenca, when the law is laid down and prescribed that it is sold on the market, and we know how negatively affecting the health of all inhabitants, especially children. How are we gonna sanction that? How market inspection will react in such situations and ensure that the quality we get is really healthy food we use. Not to mention how they are and whether they are sufficiently correct medications to be applied, whether the control is done, how the deadline has expired, etc. That I don't speak life examples when we have a variety of services. I'll just happen to mention, say, taxi services that are being abused in some situations, where we ourselves are witnesses of such, especially if citizens from other cities or other countries come to our city, and that's not sanctioned enough. So these examples have infinitely they're in every part of the segment. How do we feel or how does the man who comes to our country, our city, feel and what kind of picture of us does he take? Not only must the law be passed, but it must provide for a way of monitoring and developing a new culture, a new way of treating and dealing with it. I therefore very much welcome the national register of objections, I very much welcome the better position of the consumer association, which points to the obligation of self-organising citizens, strengthening local self-government and particularly the position of market inspection. (President: Mrs. Dragas, time of the parliamentary group. I thank you. All of this I think is very important at this point, one responsibility, how a citizen in the state will feel exactly stemming from the responsibility of the institutions that this law places and supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2858	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Just to remind you that your parliamentary group has eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2859	Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far there has been a lot of analysis of the draft laws that are before us today. I have to go back to the way this session was scheduled and deliver the bill to the MPs. We had only two days, and that weekend, to analyze proposals of such important laws, which limited us only to our knowledge and experience and made it impossible for us to consult with experts and interested groups of citizens in this area. This kind of work is already becoming the manner of this government, without any serious need for it, and at the same time it is a demeaning of the National Assembly and the MPs, because it sends us a message that MPs do not have to study the bill's proposals and will be voted by the majority anyway. As regards the proposal for a consumer protection law, we have heard from the Minister and in the discussion so far there have been words and notes that the current Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2010 a significant shift in terms of ensuring a high level of consumer protection and the harmonisation of domestic rules with the legal assets of the European Union, given that 15 EU directives have been incorporated in this regulation. We heard from the Minister's statement that there were problems in the application of this law due to the specificity of our system, both in the fields of legal regulation and in practice, so for example. no court practice was created that was to be formed. I ask – is the adjustment done in the text of this Bill, with our other applicable regulations and with our established practices to the consumer's harm? Will the changes of the institute under the applicable law still be at the expense of consumers? Will it limit any of the consumer's existing rights? This way of putting the bill in the process always raises doubts, especially when it comes to the fact that we have not received a report which is suggestions and proposals from a public debate and why they are not and why they are not. Also, the Anti-Corruption Agency has delivered an opinion on the Consumer Protection Act and on the assessment of the risk of corruption for the draft law, which says that the bill carries a high level of risk of corruption due to certain provisions. I ask – are these provisions in line, are the corrections made to remove such a high risk of corruption? The government didn't find it appropriate to let us know. The importance of the Consumer Protection Act is undoubtedly great. We are all consumers, all of us citizens of Serbia, because we all need some goods and some services. In light of the existence of a applicable law, there is no reason for the adoption of a new emergency procedure, in particular it is not clear what is so urgent when the application of this law is delayed by three months. We have passed various laws under urgent procedure, as recently was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, laws relating to the rights of persons with disabilities, laws aimed at preventing violence against women and children, etc. They all referred to specific groups with specific characteristics and needs or which are in some way threatened. Unfortunately, I must say that if something more important does not change in the policy of the ruling majority, consumers will become a protected species. There are fewer and fewer citizens who have constant monthly incomes. A solid tax has been introduced, wage cuts and even pensions are being prepared. All of this affects the fact that a large number of citizens have dropped spending on buying bread and milk and basic life supplies. These measures will further reduce consumption, and otherwise, without increasing the consumption of everything produced and the services offered, there is no development of society. Therefore, the government should give priority to the legislation that would encourage production, create better conditions for the business of entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, rules in the issue of construction and use permits, other rules relating to attracting foreign investment. So far, measures taken on this plan have been insignificant and insufficient, although the ruling majority, in the previous term, has promised and highlighted as the goal of creating new jobs and employment. Employment is the basis for increasing consumer purchasing power, and only then is their protection expressed. The example is that basic consumer rights are prescribed in Article 2, so point 4 is said to be the option of selecting between multiple goods and services at affordable prices and at an appropriate quality. That's nice, but there should be purchasing power in society and production that will make that choice possible. The impact analysis, at point 8, raises the question – does the act stimulate the emergence of new operators on the market and market competition? Unfortunately, the answer is no. No, among other things, because of the criminal provisions that, as far as I was able to verify, they kept the same amounts of fines for violations in the same range, because in these conditions of subjugation, I must say, the penalties envisaged are extremely high, at least their minimum amounts. I'm going to make an example of this, because I represented a company that trades seed and livestock and has only one retail facility. When the inspector came, he found that the price and the label fell off, because they were taped, because they couldn't even drill differently, they couldn't pin the label and price differently, and since it fell and it wasn't in the visible place, the company was punished. The minimum penalty for a real face is 300,000 dinars. The company immediately put the key in the lock and stopped working. I think we need to take care of all this. Our MP group Boris Tadic, the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and the Greens – Serbia has analysed and submitted amendments, which we will talk about when the debate is in particular and we are trying to influence them to make this text better. Because of the way these bill proposals were delivered so far, we won't support it in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2860	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2861	Just one little correction. We have received objections from different institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Agency, but we have received objections to the predicate of the law. First of all, this observation was about the establishment of a consumer protection centre that was supposed to play a role as a public agency and a key role in creating consumer protection, as well as in relation to consumer protection associations. We totally kicked out that part of the law. There will be no consumer protection centre, no new public agency. So that remark was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2862	The word of the People's Messenger is Svetislav Vukmirica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2863	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has created a new Consumer Protection Act, which would not have been possible in any other way. Also, the new law will remove current obstacles to its implementation and improve the consumer protection system. The introduction of a national register of consumer complaints, as well as a system for collecting, recording and resolving consumer disputes, strengthening consumer legal protection, empowering the competent ministry to impose measures in the administrative process in order to protect the collective interests of consumers, then prescribing the wider scope of monitoring of inspection bodies, improving the non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes, as well as giving exclusive rights to registered associations and associations of consumer protection associations to submit requirements for the protection of collective interest will certainly raise the quality of the consumer protection system. The proposed Consumer Protection Act sets out the powers and tasks performed by the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. Among other things, this refers to the recognition of unfair business practice, unfair provisions in consumer contracts, taking administrative actions to protect consumer collective interests, giving protection measures in case of breach of the provisions of this law relating to unfair business practice and unfair provisions in consumer contracts and keeping a national register of consumer complaints. The new law will significantly improve the work of the Consumer Protection Association, which, in line with new legal solutions, should meet new additional criteria so that they can be financed by budgetary means, become independent in their work and thus create additional credibility. On the other hand, local self-government units will have a greater role to play since the perception of the problem and the needs of individual consumers are facilitated if they are at local level. Also, consumers, or citizens of Serbia, who are on a daily basis in the role of consumers, would be provided effective protection at less cost to consumer disputes. On this occasion, I would like to single out some newspapers, or provisions of laws that and how consumers contribute, which relate to market inspection. In fact, the new law allows consumers to be present when determining the lack of awareness, i.e. the right of the consumer to receive a replacement product, and that all public enterprises must have round centres in order for consumers to be able to obtain the right information. Then, a new shorter deadline for the trader’s response to consumer advertising is introduced, i.e. it is reduced from 15 days to eight days and a clear and precise deadline is introduced within which the trader must fix a specific product, i.e. instead of the appropriate time limit so far, is now standing – no later than 30 days. At the end of this first part of my presentation, I would also like to highlight the existence of the Consumers' Association in the municipality of Kickinda from which I come. Since 2007, there has been an association called the Consumers' Association "Kikinda", which, year by year, draws attention to itself by active work and frequent media presence and achieves confidence and credibility among citizens. Currently, only a few municipalities have registered a consumer association in the territory of the AP Vojvodina near Kikinda, and unfortunately the previous Viking government has not recognised the importance of this organisation. However, since the end of 2013, i.e. after the change of government, the consumer association has been slowly receiving due attention. The object association supported the current local government in Kikinda in terms of the implementation of the consumer consultation project and also provided it with free space needed for quality work. I am sure that this co-operation between local self-government and the Consumers' Association will be even better and more meaningful, all in order to protect the fundamental constitutional rights of all citizens. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications, the predominant reason for the adoption of this law is to streamline the work of the Republic of E-communications Agency, RATEL, and the Republic of postal services agency and to create one instead of two regulatory bodies, all in order to ensure efficiency in the work of the authorities of the state administration and other public authorities. It was also influenced by the practice of most EU countries and regions where there is one national regulatory body in the field of electronic communications and postal services. The Intangible Law on Electronic Communications has also been amended in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision to establish that certain parts of the laws relating to the retention data are not in conformity with the Constitution. In the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, it states that the retention data are data covered by the law on non-violence of means of communication, and according to this derogation from this guaranteed right in the use of retention data is possible only in the manner provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Accordingly, the Constitutional Court found that it is only the Court of Justice that, if it is necessary to conduct a criminal procedure or to protect the security of the Republic of Slovenia indefinitely and in a manner provided for by law, it allows a derogation from the Constitution of guaranteed non-vulnerability of letters and other means of communication in current practice in the work of the internal affairs authorities concerning the data held in connection with the records of the basic talks, i.e. the location of the entities between which the conversation is conducted and the geographical position of the place from which it is held. There was also a monitoring of the movement of base stations and everything was done on the basis of the prosecution's warrant and consent. Amendments to the law in question establish an obligation that, without a court order, police authorities will no longer be able to work on matters relating to retention data. In this way, the obligation to issue a court order regarding the sexes of retention data is established, which so far was necessary only in relation to the recording of electronic and other conversations. It is no doubt that this will ensure the constitutional right of every citizen to protect privacy and will represent the right form of control and the necessary defence of any possible abuse of authority by the authorities. On the other hand, co-operation between the competent court and the police authorities will have to be raised to the highest possible level precisely because of the urgency of the procedure on the one hand and the obligation given to the court on the other hand in order not to slow down the work of the police authorities. In the future, more attention will need to be paid to the co-operation of competent national authorities and existing operators in view of the operator's established obligation to retain data, regardless of the content of communication being disclosed to the competent authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2864	The word is Ninoslav Stojadinović. It's available for another 20 seconds. Ninoslav Stojadinovic is not here. The word is Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2865	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament and respected citizens of Serbia, how much a problem consumer rights protection is a living and delicate area also shows that after just two years after the adoption of the legislation regulated by this area, the need for its amendments has been reported, to the extent that it requires the adoption of a completely new law. It is also positive that the bill came from both the consumer protection strategy until 2018, so from a very lively and transparent public debate held in the middle of last year, which is what has been built into this proposal and how many remarks from this debate have been incorporated. Therefore, the proposal for a consumer protection law is an example of how an institutional framework should be created in any matter at all. I would not engage in a detailed commentary of the members of this bill, but I would point out for this opportunity what its essence is. First of all, the proposal for a consumer rights law stemmed from the specific need set out in the process of improving consumer rights which cannot be strengthened without being accompanied by an institutional framework and a system-based foothold. Secondly, I think it is a good thing that, in parallel with strengthening the institutional framework for consumer protection, local self-government units are being given increasing authority at the same time. Their authorities and institutions are, by definition, closer to the citizens and this could be a good basis for believing that possible disputes in the area of insurance and consumer rights will be resolved more effectively. Furthermore, it is very good that the control mechanisms for monitoring consumer rights are precisely defined. The specific flows of this legislative proposal are also strengthening the roles and true powers of both the association of the association dealing with this area and, in particular, the civil sector to which institutional and legal support is provided to act, not only on the consumer's education plan regarding their rights, but also on the formal legal role in non-judicial but also in court consumer disputes. If I understand correctly, civil society organisations are becoming sort of, conditionally speaking, citizens' lawyers representing their interests. It's more than an excellent solution for a number of practical reasons. In short, most citizens do not have the possibility objectively, so to speak, that the matter exorcises, even in cases where the violation of their fundamental rights is more than obvious. In addition, in consumer disputes, it is not only the priority of the consumer's right to confirm against relevant institutions, but also, above all, the preventive character of potential sanctions, which, on potential offenders, traders should first of all, have a dissuasive effect, i.e. to produce the effect of non-compliance with consumer law because in that case there will be sanctions. The introduction of a national register of consumer complaints and its availability to all via the Internet is an excellent institute and mechanism that will significantly reduce consumer rights violations, and also enable the strengthening of a slightly forgotten ethical category of commercial reputation, as well as the constant raising of awareness that the relationship between sellers – the customer is a natural social phenomenon and that improving consumer rights does not mean suspending the rights of traders. What is most important for this opportunity, however, is that after the adoption of this law, it becomes a kind of trigger for the start of general education, primarily for consumers themselves, but also for all other participants in the purchasing process. Every consumer must become available quality and usable information about what its rights are. This would avoid the practice of excessive need for any form of arbitration, unnecessary mutual exhaustion and irrational engagement of non-judicial resources, especially judicial ones. Because it does not need to be disturbed by the fact that consumers are mostly affected by their own impotence due to too long a fall in purchasing power often tends to resort to behavior beyond the frameworks of protecting their rights, because consumers are always right, except when they are wrong, because most often they are not rich enough to buy cheap things, but they buy them because otherwise they can't, so, with a specific occasion or not, it's sensitive to the idea of being deceived. So, in the very context of protecting the rights of consumers in our country, it is not only a question of improving their rights, but also, above all, one of the mechanisms for protecting citizens' standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2866	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2867	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, there are very important laws ahead of us. I can't understand the argument - we won't vote because it's supposed to be something of an emergency procedure, and basically when it comes to the law, especially the Consumer Protection Act, no one has any critical reference to the text. Actually, he can't, because he has to admit that we haven't had such a good law in a long time. I must congratulate both the Ministry itself and the Minister and the entire government at all on the proposal of a law like this. Exceptionally good things are defined here. I appeal to the public, to all those who so far may have objected to the current Consumer Protection Act, to read this necessarily, to take it off the assembly site when adopted, so that they know what their rights are. I think only the ministry would have to do a little bit more in citizenship education, about this law, because it is an extraordinary consumer protection. What we've heard here as some kind of grudge, that's -- let's not maybe vote for that law because it's a question of whether it's going to be applicable, because in some previous period we've found that our judiciary is bad, that our government is bad and our administration. That's all true, but what someone's done is such a mess in all these institutions, it's something else. The law itself as a law is extraordinary and I appeal to you that, as far as application is concerned, it and how it is applicable, or that you cannot have any excuse regarding the application of the law itself. I just want you to explain a little bit to us the differences between unfair business practice, misleading business practice and abusive business practice. I think that sometimes in the arbitration itself, that is, in some extrajudicial dispute, people themselves who decide on it will have a lot of problems to distinguish these types of business practices. I think there may be some interpretations of the ministry for the public's sake, but of course I'm leaving it on you. I'm glad that the state is completely behind the consumer, first of all because even in the dispute, if there is a court, the state stands behind the consumer and always the consumer is right, never puts aside the trader. This law will cause a considerable earthquake among traders, because from now on they will have to and how to comply with these standards and I think you will have a big, big problem of your own. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, I have suggested that in article 24 on the protection of minors, the Government give the amendment to become an integral part of the law, which is to insert this provision for gambling. I really think that in terms of the protection of minors, no matter what I'm the law on gambling, it defines that no one under 18 can get that kind of service, let's say they bet or participate in any gambling game, but it wouldn't be a bad thing for this law to strengthen that kind of protection, so I urge your ministry to do something like that. In any case, I don't believe anyone can give you any objections, especially in the proceedings of protection, related to consumer objections and non-judicial disputes, and at all when you come to court. It's just that long ago the state of Serbia had no such good law and I can only conclude that I will support this very, very dearly willing thing. As far as these other two telecommunications laws and our postal services are concerned, there are some things I need to notice. The laws themselves are good, but with some things I can't agree with myself sometimes, which is about supervision of the agency itself. It's a good thing that RATEL and the postal service agency are joining together, I think it's both cellular and good, but so far we've had this situation that under the cloak of an independent regulatory body we actually have a situation that no one alive has any idea what that agency is doing. Then we experience such a scandal, as it happened with the SOS channel. If you remember, the state of Serbia was terribly damaged there. Remember that the SOS channel was given an invalid frequency and the state had to pay an SOS channel fee. It states here that the agency is under the supervision of the ministry, but now it is being questioned – well, how is it independent, if the ministry is watching it? Secondly, the choice of a director of such an agency bothers me personally because I am in favour of going to the competition, but to be the board of directors of such a competition committee, it's a little lame for me. I think it would be quite instructive that if the Assembly were to elect members of the Management Board on a proposal from the Government, at least one member of the Assembly, or, let's say, some member of the Ministry, would be in that kind of commission, in order to choose the director as transparent as possible, in a better way. If we leave it to the board of directors, I think we're going to have a very big problem here. As for switching to analogue broadcasting, I do urge it to begin as quickly as possible. We need to meet some of the things that the EU requires and, in general, the European Commission. I think it's supposed to end this year. It's a good thing we're extending this, but I'm afraid if we're this inactive, we'll get into a situation next year where we might have to continue something again. I hope something like that doesn't happen, it won't happen. I agree that a huge number of households don't have the means to buy a TV that has a digital signal. It's all true, you're absolutely right, but you know what, there are some rules that rule the world, that rule in Europe at all. If we are defined as going to the EU, if we have defined ourselves to go towards some modern currents, we simply need to adapt to having a television that has a digital signal, because analogue signals will go off everywhere. I'd ask you to think about what I've put in some kind of a grudge. In any case, good laws are worth supporting, and in the voting day, the entire SNS parliamentary group will certainly vote in favour of all three of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2868	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2869	First of all, several answers to Mr Djukanovic, he is absolutely right that we must work much more to get to know the public about the content and provisions of this law, with consumer rights, and in this respect we expect first and foremost to co-operate with consumer protection associations as bearers of the greatest part of these activities. As for unfair business practices, unfortunately there is plenty of it, we witness these examples on a daily basis, you get in the newspaper the lyphlets of different companies and traders who invite you to this day's discount of 15% or 20% on their products, and when you go to that store you see that there's nothing from the decline. It is actually a misleading business practice. There are also practices on our public broadcasters that bomb you every day with commercials that if you use some shampoo hair, it's about to wake you up. If you use any medicine you will be cured of all possible diseases, that a particular medicine or product has a certificate of a competent state institution, most often medical and whole set of similar examples. Also, unfair contractual provisions. You have contracts with mobile operators, so you break up those contracts, and then a few months later you have to pay some taxes that you haven't been notified of. All of this is now trying to bring into one frame, to give the market inspection of the mechanisms so that in situations like this it can run and express administrative measures and solve problems in the most effective way possible. That wasn't the case until now. Everything was spinning between the trader and the consumer. Consumer protection organisations had little room for manoeuvres to actually create something. 'All in all, we have a well-defined law, quite solid instruments for its implementation. Someone said that well today – we need a whole culture of new ones to create, to build, to give us a total environment, to sensitize the public, the importance of the consumer movement in general, to strengthen the capacities of the consumer protection association without which we cannot bring this whole business to an end. We need the active involvement of traders in all this, because we wanted to have a law that would protect consumers and not harm traders. It seems to me that we have managed to win this balance, and in the end this is also a public debate and I believe that this healthy compromise can also be a prerequisite for the law to be truly applicable in practice. I thank you all. Once again, I apologize for what the law has been sent by emergency procedure, for the fact that MPs have not been able to get to know each other, but I also expect that on the day we discuss details, the amendments, we will be ready to accept all those amendments that will improve the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-09-0.u2870	I thank the minister. I am concluding a joint principled search on proposals for the law referred to in points 1 to 3 of the agenda. Tomorrow at 10.00 we'll continue our work. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
