ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. This is Mrs. Tanya Petrova, who is online. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Registered in the hall 124 Members of Parliament and one online " 125." 63 The number of MPs present in the Chamber is required to take decisions. Colleagues, we have one message: an updated audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2021 has been received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly. The programme was submitted by letter No 124-00-3 from the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The first point for today is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR LEGISLATIONS. The Health Committee report will introduce us to Mrs Daritkova. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-17, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 16 December 2020. At its regular meeting on 21 January 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-117, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 16 December 2020. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Prof. Dr. Kostadin Angelov, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, representatives of the National Association of Municipal Hospitals in Bulgaria and the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Daniela Daritkova, who informed the MPs that the current legislative initiative is in line with the need to bring the Law on Medical Institutions into line with the Law on Public Enterprises with regard to the election and appointment of members of the government and control bodies of state and municipal medical institutions. She clarified that according to art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 of the Public Enterprise Act public undertakings are commercial companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal participation in the capital or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises a dominant influence. In view of this, the medical establishments owned by the State or municipalities are public undertakings and fall within the scope of the Law. The Law also proposes amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises. The current provision of art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Public Enterprises prohibits persons working under a contract of employment or service, except as lecturers at a higher school, from being managers and executive members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors. In order to take up such a position, persons must cease their previous employment or service activity, which, on the one hand, prevents dentists and dentists who are directors or managers of public health institutions within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act, from exercising their profession and, on the other, will result in a significant limitation of access to medical care for citizens, especially in smaller settlements where there is, in principle, a significant shortage of medical professionals. Dr. Daritkova noted that a large part of the executive directors and managers of state and municipal hospitals are practitioners or dentists, which is why if the proposed regulatory changes are not adopted, their ability to exercise their profession will be taken away and placed in discriminatory conditions against other doctors. She stressed that it is extremely incorrect for dentists and dentists to be faced with the choice of whether to be executives, respectively hospital managers, or to exercise their profession and to provide the necessary medical assistance to their patients. The adoption of this legislative initiative will enable dentists and dentists who are directors or managers of public enterprises within the meaning of the Public Enterprises Act, to exercise their profession and will ensure accessible medical assistance to Bulgarian citizens, especially in small towns, as well as in hard-to-reach and remote areas, where the lack of sufficient medical professionals is a serious problem. Minister Angelov expressed support for the proposed bill, as this will guarantee the right of executive directors, respectively the managers of medical institutions under art. 63, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions to exercise their profession and provide accessible medical assistance to Bulgarian citizens, especially in areas where there is a shortage of medical specialists. Support for the proposed legislative changes is expressed by the Ministry of Economy, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Medical Association, the Bulgarian Dental Union, the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the National Association of Municipal Hospitals in Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association, stating that they are extremely timely, given the expiry of the transitional period for bringing the government of state and municipal health institutions into compliance with the requirements of the Public Enterprises Act. The written opinion of the Ministry of Finance states that the amendment to the Law on Medical Institutions is justified and should be supported. At the same time, as regards the proposed addition in art. 20, para. 3 of the Public Enterprises Act notes that all public undertakings, including public and municipal hospital services, should be subject to the same requirements and rules laid down in the Public Enterprises Act. By its philosophy and nature, the existing restriction is linked to the need to provide sufficient time to carry out the duties assigned to managers or executive directors of public undertakings in order to achieve the effective and efficient functioning of the same. It is stressed that the adoption of the legislative initiative at issue will put the governors or executive directors in the position of a decisive body and of a contractor with regard to the posts held at the same time. During the discussion the MPs raised specific questions regarding the texts of some of the proposed provisions. It was noted that these regulatory changes should have been proposed and adopted in the previous amendment to the Law on Medical Institutions, respectively to the Law on Public Enterprises in September 2020. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out in the following results: 16 votes for the medical institution, no votes, and 1 vote abstention, the Health Committee proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-117, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova on 16 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u3	Thank you. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-17, submitted by Daniela Daritkova on 16 December 2020. At its regular meeting held on 27 January 2021, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Medical Institutions. In the area of competence of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the proposed amendment to the Public Enterprises Act. The current provision of art. 20, para. 3 of the Law prohibits persons working under a contract of employment or by service, other than lecturers at a higher school, from being members of the management and control bodies of public undertakings. This prevents dentists and dentists who are directors or managers of medical establishments that are public enterprises from exercising their profession and would lead to limiting access to medical care for citizens, especially in smaller towns. The proposed amendment aims to create an exception with regard to the prohibition of members of the management and control bodies of the medical institutions under art. 63, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions shall not be able to work on a service or employment relationship. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-117, submitted by Daniela Daritkova on 16 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. An importer's opinion. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed legislative change solves a problem that arose after the adoption of the Public Enterprises Act in 2019. Medical establishments with predominantly state and municipal participation fall within the scope of the Law. In this regard, and in relation to the specifics of the activities carried out by the medical institutions, several problems arose. These problems should have been resolved after Bulgaria was admitted to the euro area waiting room because the Public Enterprises Act was one of the conditions required by the monitoring bodies so that Bulgaria could be accepted as a full member in the euro area waiting room and the Banking Union. The problem that arose was that there was a ban on the managers of medical institutions, as well as all the managers of the executive members of the managing bodies of public undertakings, to carry out other activities in business or employment. In this regard, in September, we took a legislative initiative that would allow these managers to be able to work as lecturers, because this directly concerned hospital managers who were proven professionals and experts in their field. Thank you for supporting this proposal at the time. What we have changed with regard to medical institutions in the autumn is to reduce the board of directors to not what is required in the Public Enterprises Act, but to remain the old number of boards of medical institutions, which, respectively, in their commercial form, have to have such a governing body, that is, not five, as envisaged for other public undertakings in the Public Enterprises Act, but three. And since we could not find an agreement and a solution at the time regarding the implementation of the medical work by the hospital managers, we postponed by four months the entry into force of this law. We were looking for options for a solution through the Health Insurance Act or otherwise, but eventually we were referred to by the National Association of Municipal Hospitals and other hospitals that such a provision would make it really difficult for Bulgarian citizens to access medical care. The managers of hospitals of municipal and state hospitals participate in the healing process and it is normal for them to be able to practice the profession because this, in the case of a deficit of specialists, guarantees the access of Bulgarian citizens to quality medical care. That is why we allow the exception that I hope you will today support for managers of public enterprises operating as doctors or dentists under the Law on Medical Institutions. What we have changed in the Law on Medical Institutions is the adoption of the rules for the selection of managing bodies and the abolition of the possibility of the Minister of Health extending the contracts of managers of medical institutions, because we must have uniform principles for the selection of the management bodies of medical institutions which are public undertakings within the meaning of the Law on Public Enterprises. I believe that this House will support these legislative proposals and I ask for this to happen in a short time, because now is the time when the volume of the contracts of the medical institutions with the National Health Insurance Fund is assessed. It is right for us to give the opportunity, in carrying out medical activities, to ensure a sufficient volume of medical care for citizens at every point of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is extremely embarrassing for me to be present now in this hall of another ludicrous woman, consisting of this fact a few months after the adoption of a change in the Law, which in the discussions of September 25th, before me is the stenogram, you will have a later opportunity to get acquainted with parts of it, carefully, professionally, we have seriously explained to the government that what is being adopted at the moment is absolutely inappropriate with the conditions and principles of the work of the health system in Bulgaria. We were accused of all sorts of things at the time, that we did not understand the terminology, that we did not understand the essence of the changes. Your coalition partners were pinned down by the so-called Dr. Popovski, how was the coalition culture. I don't know if it can be covered with coalition culture, accept it with the roller of the majority, although your colleagues have come to apologize for all that is happening in the Chamber and say that someday.. here it is, the day has come.. this will be better. But nothing gets better in Bulgarian healthcare. I remember, going back and forth, as we ended this entire period of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, how you started with the first budget to try to deprive Bulgarian citizens of innovative medicines and access to them, how during the Law on Medicine you made severely ill Bulgarian patients buy their own medicines instead of being assisted by the state. In the biggest crisis that affects our entire society, here you have brought us a species of crisis, put us in some dark votes, quotes in which we have accepted some real, accurate diversification of vaccines in your opinion. And now, after the withdrawals that have won your diversion, so to speak, a bonus that cannot deal with the European Commission, has problems with it, we will again be faced with problems with the most important thing in Bulgaria right now the immune calendar. And I cannot understand that in the Commission it happened, and now it happens, the importer to explain to us in a edifying tone, with a pathos what good is done for Bulgarian healthcare. It's been four years, guys! Nothing good has happened to him, and it will not happen to him until the end of the term of office of this National Assembly. And, thank God, as we called it then, this Tower of Babel will collapse by legislative absurdities and go to history. Tough and woe, however, to the following parliaments, who will have to correct the mistakes that have been made now, in this Forty-fourth National Assembly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u9	Thank you. - What's the line? Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u10	Dear Professor Mihailov, I have really been very tense to understand why you continue to insist that September month we have made this change? Maybe you either don't want to understand, or you really did get fooled by the legislative technique we used back then. In September, to change the text of art. 20, para. 3 of the Law on Public Enterprises, we gave a comprehensive editing because there were inaccuracies in terms of the terms used. And now I will read you the first version of the text of the Law, which was adopted on 8 October 2019: Art. 20. (3) Executive members of the Boards of Directors and the Boards of Directors who work under a contract of employment or service may not be governors. What we imported in September to enable the hospital managers to teach was a comprehensive version of this article, but we didn't introduce it then, it was a fact. And according to the adopted texts in the Chamber, art. 20, para. 3 reads: "No executive members of the Boards of Directors and of the Boards of Directors who work in the field of employment or employment, except as professors of higher school, may be governors. In this sense, we have consistently implemented the revision of texts in relation to medical institutions. And I don't think that this should be reproached by the opposition, because we are in fact setting out the Law in relation to public enterprises. And I believe most of my colleagues have figured that out. I ask you not to manipulate this House anymore, not to manipulate your parliamentary group, because I believe that even then, and now the changes deserve the support of all parliamentary powers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u11	Thank you. Second line, Dr. Popovski. You want a statement? If there isn't a second line, it's a doppelganger, Mr. Mihaylov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Daritkova, I cannot be surprised at this experience I have known you for more than 10 years, you are a very intelligent colleague, but here is not the place to juggle with phrases and to move the centers of this legislative process, of this initiative, replacing the problem of the possibility of teaching, which is not and was never any serious problem for the heads of medical institutions. The biggest problem was that with this initiative you prohibited them from working, and with this personnel deficit, provided that most of the hospital managers were prominent clinicians, that was absurd. And here we come up with a bigger absurdity. I told you then, now I don't want to go into these slums, I'm just going to mention it with this stubbornness to bring deep as commercial companies medical institutions where they don't belong at all, and in the Public Enterprises Act, and resulting from this... I would like to remind you here, Dr. Daritkova, that even now the Ministry of Finance has an acute negative attitude towards your amendment, because the activities of the medical institutions itself are incompatible with the characteristics of a trading company. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u13	Thank you. Mr. Popovski, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, I would like to do a little retrospect of these amendments to make it clear to the House. That Amendment 2019, which we are doing in the Public Enterprises Act, is a serious requirement for Bulgaria to enter the euro area. So the professor is somewhat right that these subsequent events would have occurred, but we had no other option, because at the time the requirement for Bulgaria was severely imperative that we adopt this law in order to enter the waiting room of the euro area. By adopting this law and entering the euro area waiting room, we would then, we would not, would not, would we do these amendments, first, 2020 autumn. The year after that amendment 2019, and now, the last amendment that Dr. Daritkova introduced so that we could allow doctors from the relevant small clinics and hospitals to work on their specialties. Simple, simple things. There was no other option what to do in the current situation. Even now in my constituency, the Pleven Municipal Council has voted on a regulation which will then have to correct precisely because of this amendment that we are going to adopt today. Even I had an offer to remove this item from the agenda so that, once we have adopted the Law in full at second reading, the municipal ordinance could be made. Doesn't matter, c'est la vie, I'm telling you as a principle movement in the dynamics of things. We had no other option. Government financiers say this amendment 2019 is absolutely imperative for entering the ERM zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u15	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that the bill, which was tabled today by Dr. Daritkova, with satisfaction and, I would say, joy will be accepted by absolutely everyone in this House. I want to make it clear here to everyone, this bill actually solves a problem that has come up here, we have to say it from the fact that medical institutions are commercial companies. And because they are commercial companies, and the laws imposed on us by the European Union, and that of entering the euro area, they have imposed these changes. I want to share here something that is constantly speculated from this tribune by the people on the left and some people who manage hospitals and talk about innovative medicines, provided that some directors bought medicines and medicines arrived in two years. So people who talk about innovative drugs, and in oncohematology, somehow I cannot accept because the criticisms made here to the bills which imports the political party GERB are in the name of health care in Bulgaria to improve. Yes, there have been many mistakes, there have been many weaknesses since the creation of the system itself, and we have been trying, as far as possible, to address these, so to speak, problems that hinder healthcare. Here from this tribune we have to state that this will probably be the last drafts in the field of health, we need to tell all Bulgarian citizens loud and clear, we need to tell all Bulgarian doctors and people who are in medicine that what our opponents in Bulgaria offer to us, namely BSP, is to eliminate the medical institutions........................................................................ That is, to return the system from 1989 and to work the principle of Semashko the favorite of the left. So all the hospitals are going to be the same, have the same levelling, all of them getting the same money, all of us going back in time. It's the nostalgia of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, today what we are doing with this amendment is giving all doctors who are willing to run to be head of medical institutions. In addition to managers of medical institutions, they can also teach. I will remind here those who do not know that one professor, respectively a doctor in a particular department, was on two contracts of employment that may be forgotten one contract to the medical establishment and the other to the university. So, very please, when it comes to health care, let's not have a short memory and not criticize a piece. Let us first look at what we have done in the field of health, what we have contributed to health and then come out here and make suggestions and speculation. I think that the bill, which was tabled by Dr Daritkova and the Political Party GERB, will be adopted and I am convinced, with full unanimity in this House, because it is only for the benefit of the medical institutions. And I'm gonna graduate. Not every city, not every hospital has enough candidates to manage, because management means responsibility, management means commitment, management of a hospital is connected with vision, with programs, with finances, with reports and so on, a lot of administrative work. Each colleague who works in a smaller hospital will prefer to pursue his profession and to take care only of his patients. So I very much ask from this high tribune not to make suggestions, not to address the Bulgarian citizens with which to frighten them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not surprised by the mixed words and potpuras of thoughts that were shared by colleague Ivanov during the two minutes before. I want to protect him from the suggestion of himself in his speech, because such suggestions, if they do not defend themselves in any way, can cost him serious explanations, and not in this room. But all those miscarriages that you're doing right now, and all that you're trying to do with the undisturbed construction of your speech to protect, including the attacks on other political forces' programming projects, have nothing to do with the actual fact that we're currently doing a correction to your legislative absurdity. This is the essence of the debate, this is the essence of the discussion and with your speech, Dr. Ivanov, nothing will change it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u19	A line? Second line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! Dear colleagues, from what we hear in plenary as an exhibition of the government, the confusion with you, colleagues, is total. One of the government says that a regulation of municipal council should stop legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria, another has not understood what it is about! Dear colleagues, this amendment changes in practice an absurd situation in which the amendments to the Public Enterprises Act brought Bulgarian doctors to choose between management functions and direct medical activity. This is the biggest absurdity that the current situation offers. And I would like to warn the government: honourable Members, the sense of self-sufficientness of any management formation always leads to poor results for the ruling coalition. If you of the managers from GERB and the United Patriarch, learn to distinguish between the axe, scalpel and feather, then you will meet the public expectations. At the moment, in this case, you are faced with the delicate situation of explaining what you have done before.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u21	Thank you. Third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ivanov, since you mentioned in your speech what was before and brought back old memories, it is still nice to respond to my reply to you: what did you achieve in Bulgarian healthcare during the management of GERB? My opinion and the people is that you have ruined Bulgarian healthcare, whether by specialists, whether by infrastructure or for hospital education. You have de facto ruined Bulgarian education and are creating not only that, but you are continuing to create chaos.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u23	Mr. Stoinev, you're making a line on a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u24	The line is yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u25	I don't hear anything concrete!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u26	I guess I'll say it again so you can hear it too. After GERB ruined Bulgarian education and health... [[(GERB's ……]] Education also goes as it is connected. ...the chaos is full. At the moment we are canceling something that you have accepted and, unfortunately, this is a practice of the management of GERB. Unfortunately, all spheres have been ruined and healthcare. You can see that people give you a specific assessment. For the Bulgarian health blame for the chaos you bring from the political party GERB. Please answer me: in these 10 years, what have you done? How did you improve Bulgarian healthcare? How did you improve people's access to health services? How you improved to have more specialists, not people leaving the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u27	Mr. Stoinev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u28	...for those 10 years? Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u29	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev: A little more serious, if you please!]] I'm extremely serious. If I'm following what you're trying to tell me, I had to cut off all the lines. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u30	I'll start with the answer to my esteemed Professor Mihailov. Professor Mihailov, I have structured my speech in a sequence with which I wanted to show that in the case of this law we highlight, refine and enable all those doctors who work in medical institutions to have the right and to manage and teach. We are precisioning a bill which was tabled by the Council of Ministers, and we are actually now doing this precision so that they cannot be harmed. If it's not clear, this is the second time I've said it. To the question of my esteemed Dr. Ademov. Dr. Ademov, in your line, I noticed a statement that I didn't see a single reproach on me, so I'm going to say this: we are actually trying to refine, to realise, to do exactly and clearly how and in what way, who has the right to manage the medical institutions. I will address Mr. Stoinev and say: yes, your lapsus was actually correct. Medicine is also education. As well as education, they actually give doctors opportunities to qualify and build as specialists. But I just want to point out that there are no faultless ones here. I want to declare from this tribune there are no faultless ones. Yes, the political party GERB did a lot of things, but didn't do them consistently, I would say at a certain time, but chaotic. You're right, we have.. will repeat twice a great, great debt to our society for failing to reform, optimize the healthcare system. You see, especially in such difficult times of challenges that very difficult changes can be made. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman, last sentence. I address all the political forces present here and those not present. I would like to turn to you and say that I am involved in health care and I am studying health for many years, but without here I want to be heard by everyone, I am talking, a single political doctrine, without all of us uniting around principles about how healthcare will be reformed for 20 years to come. Listen to me nicely, for 20 years to come. As healthcare is conservative, we will never be here from the present political parties or those who will enter, if we do not have a single opinion, if we do not have tangent points, some principles on which to unite... we will never, ever achieve the health that people expect of us as politicians. Thank you. I'm sorry again for exceeding time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Jaffer, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going to refrain from the mentoring tone that they have tried to impose on this tribune. I don't know what you're bringing together, I don't know how you're going to create a single health policy for 20 years! What you are demonstrating right now is an absolute lack of capacity, creating legislative chaos, an excuse for things that you have created and involved. Our categorical opinion is that the proposed legislative change is brilliantly included in the item. You have created absolutely unacceptable situations where one law contradicts another, a legislative situation where the exceptions that are scheduled are more than the principle and rule laid down at the time of the introduction of a bill. If there is one thing you have confirmed over the years you have managed, honourable Members, this is the constant sense of instability in this system. Some call this legislative chaos, and these are the people who work in the system. Put yourself in the place of the people who have to implement the decisions we've made here. Yes, in 2019. At the end of 2019, a text is adopted with which we must meet expectations related to entering the euro area waiting room. Just a few months ago, you proposed another text that you supposedly regulate how medical institutions will function in the context of public enterprises. You've imposed a ban, and now, a few months later, you're putting in an amendment that you're trying to correct the old mistake. So a little bit more carefully with this mentoring tone of yours to teach everyone how they should behave, what their ideas should be and what their strategies for development of the sector should be. The truth is that the proposed change is the right one because it corrects an old proposal by which we forbid the directors of the medical institutions, and the municipal hospitals, to work as doctors. This is the right decision and will most likely be supported by the entire Chamber. However, the issue remains that the legislative technique applied at the end of this mandate deepens the legislative chaos in the system. [[Noise and lines.]] You cannot, through one law, change one thing, in the transitional provisions of another law to sign another and in the third law to try to correct an old mistake. It is perplexing to us that the Ministry of Finance continues to argue against this amendment. [[Heckling]] They have their arguments, but we must be able to explain that when two thirds of the country's territory does not have normal access to healthcare, we have the right to authorise the directors of hospitals such as Madan, Krumovgrad, Momchilgrad, Pavlikeni, Tervel and wherever they can and must work. Because these hospitals don't have enough specialists anyway, and if this specialist works in the internal ward, in the surgical ward, then he does what he can do to help people. These are the arguments with which we should sometimes try to defend the Bulgarian position. We are opposed because of the situation today because Europe wants or must meet the requirements for the euro area, to change legislation and in two months to take other actions in the opposite direction again. This presents us as extremely unpredictable partners in front of all institutions. Another question is what signal we give to those working in the system. So the opposition is not responsible for the situation. On the contrary, humble yourself because the opposition cannot be blamed for asking one question or not asking that it has submitted a proposal or not submitting a proposal. You are the ones who run the system, and you will have to be responsible for this system. And otherwise, yes, there are no innocents. The point is that for 11 years you have had enough time to see the problems and to seek their solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u33	Thank you. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Jaffer, I agree with much of your speech, but perhaps you should have told your colleagues on the right that the attempt to correct a legislative miscarriage, in fact, of another legislative miscarriage, is anything but a fixes of legislation. And as they say, it would be responsible for them to come to this stand and say, yes, we were wrong, we are trying to correct our mistake. Because, as the saying goes: recognized sin. Half sin, but we do not see this behavior of theirs happening in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u35	Thank you. Second line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u36	There are sectors that require full political consensus on the actions to be taken. Health care is a similar sector. Many mistakes have been made. The objective analysis of the situation at the moment shows that a united effort is required for this we all have no objection. But denying that such legislative initiatives are a really brilliant example of how a sample is made a mistake, making an attempt to correct the error, again a mistake and again a mistake and someone trying to come out here and presenting itself entirely in white is really extremely counterproductive. And legislation requires not such efforts but requires precision. It is not for a reason that we are talking about an impact assessment when a change is proposed. We, as opposition, are correct enough to say that we will support the efforts of the institutions and the majority for important health solutions, especially in conditions of a pandemic. But we want you to show that you know what you're doing. It is impossible for the Ministry of Finance, an honourable colleague to respond to your reply, to have a negative opinion on the bill, and here colleagues to blame the opposition for the things that have not happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u37	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We fall into the paradoxical situation when what we pleaded in September suddenly becomes our fault, and now they convince us that this is the right thing to do, and as if we are against it. No, we will support it, because this is the right thesis the Bulgarian doctors, part of which are in the management bodies of hospitals, are able to exercise their medical activities. But what's this about? The transformation of Bulgarian hospitals into public enterprises led to a number of problems. They are coming, perhaps not in this Chamber, and in this Parliament they will be considered, but they will be considered. What's this about? If I am not mistaken, the deadline expires at the end of February, in which the Council of Ministers should say how it sees the future of Bulgarian hospitals as commercial companies or not? Because the Public Enterprises Act allows Bulgarian hospitals not to be commercial companies and the Council of Ministers must make its decision. Secondly, we have been pretending for several months that we do not know who should manage the Bulgarian hospitals. Under the Law on Public Enterprises, Bulgarian hospitals, honourable Members, must be managed by the Public Enterprises Agency and their principal by the Minister of Economy. It's nonsense, but it's the law. From now on, these Bulgarian hospitals will be managed not by the Minister of Health. Paradoxically, isn't it?! And for those who claim that we have those who aren't working. Since the beginning of the pandemic, honourable colleagues, Bulgarian hospitals have been working on a budget. What we are pleading with is the amendment by which we give them the right to receive 85% of their budget on a historical basis, in fact they are working on a budget and doing poorly. Then why should we not discuss this possibility, which is precisely adequate for the state of our country? These and other questions will be asked.. they were not addressed by the ruling majority, they were not priority, but society and history require them. So be a little more modest, and we will support this amendment, which is practically ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u39	Thank you. Line, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u40	Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, there have been many inaccuracies in your speech. It is really important to be precise, because in no way changes the property of the medical institutions and their principal. Under a completely different mechanism, the Law on Public Enterprises enters the territory of medical institutions. Under the Public Enterprises Act, the management bodies of the medical establishments will operate which, according to their ownership form, fall within the scope of this law. The managing bodies of the medical institutions will be elected as they have been. For only eight large public enterprises, the Ministry of Health will have to decide under the Rules of Application of the Public Enterprises Act, whether it should make the competitions for the management bodies or allow the Agency for Public Enterprises or by mixed means. That's the legislation in force. And despite the other suggestions, the Public Enterprises Act concerns only the management bodies. The law on medical institutions "The law that determines the functioning of medical institutions, it is the Law on health insurance that determines how medical institutions communicate with the National Health Insurance Fund in the interests of health insured persons. And what you are going to support today is thank you for really flexing the text. Because there is no correction, we are merely giving the opportunity that so far the managers of medical institutions have been involved in their management contracts. Even so far, the governors had to explicitly enter into a contract with the principal, whether he was a municipal council or a minister of health, and in him to enable them to carry out medical activities. Entering the scope of the Public Enterprises Act, we make this exception. It is normal for the Ministry of Finance to object because it is important for him that the authorities who monitor the processes of Bulgaria's accession to the euro area have the tranquility that the regulatory framework that we have adopted is sustainable. I hope that with the arguments we have on the part of the Association of Municipal Hospitals and all other performers of medical care, we will be able to convince that medical institutions deserve this exception. This is an exception, not an amendment. I very much ask that we really be precise and in no case allow such a small correction to become a plea for the overall device of the health system. We have been responsible and we have our responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u41	Thank you. A line? Second line or statement? Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to make a reply to Dr. Daritkova, something that I did at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u43	I apologize, Mrs. Naydenova, your line is to associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Daritkova made a line of his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u44	Yes, but in principle, the doctor supported Dr Daritkova for all of us agreeing to this and voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u45	You can't do a line on Dr. Daritkova's line, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u46	Okay, I'm out. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u47	Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u48	Dear Dr. Daritkova, I don't think you're right at all because you didn't get into the essence of the Law. Since the transformation of Bulgarian hospitals into public enterprises, what is the role of the state? Minister of Economy! Yes, some of them can be assigned to the Minister of Health to do the managing bodies so far. From there on, in the sense of the Public Enterprises Act, he can't assign them anything. Nothing at all! If he wants to put them in an emergency situation, he has to take out the funding. So you turned Bulgarian hospitals into freely existing electrons into the public space, which depend only on the management skills of their management bodies. We want everything to be agreed and the Ministry of Health to coordinate the activities of all hospitals, including Bulgarian hospitals. With the Public Enterprises Act, you eliminated this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u49	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u50	Today my speech is gathered in only four points, but it is still a bit comprehensive because I am the person who abstained from voting in the Commission. What are my reasons? Firstly, I believe that the systematic place of the proposed proposal is not in the Public Enterprises Act, but is in the specialized law. Something the importer would have had time to do and could have offered it to the Commission. Secondly, I do not agree with the reasons that the importer mentions in the part "Accessibility." I believe that nothing will improve and now the poor state of accessibility with regard to medical services. Because the reasons for the bad condition is that they are complex and want a complex solution, and this proposal simply will not solve anything. Thirdly, the management contract is something very different from the contract with the National Health Insurance Fund, and although there is a reason and a consequence, I very much ask that this be clearly distinguished. Finally, something that relates to commercial companies is that I do not know whether Dr. Daritkova gives his clear account that with the proposal made, for which we will press the buttons shortly, we are launching the health reform. I am throwing this stone because with this proposal we will concrete the trading companies something that we opposition do not agree with. We're going in the same direction and I personally don't know if this is the right direction, Dr. Daritkova. I can boldly argue that you are thus initiating a health reform, as public undertakings must be reorganised. I'm done. Let the next National Assembly work in this direction, but personally I am not optimistic about the direction in which you are leading health care today.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u51	Thank you. A line? I can't see. Come in, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u52	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u53	I'm sorry, Dr. Daritkova, I didn't realize you wanted a personal explanation. Mr. Taskov, hold on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should be flattered, perhaps, by the statement that I am starting a reform of health care, but I would actually like to disprove that I have tabled a short bill of two specific texts. And that is to enable the managers of medical institutions to carry out a medical activity, something which in the Public Enterprises Act is unacceptable to managers of other public undertakings in relation to the specific subject of activity. Therefore, I ask that we really leave the loud speeches, concentrate on the Bill we have at the moment, and allow hospitals to enter into contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund and their managers in all settlements to have the opportunity to provide medical assistance to the population, besides managing and managing the medical facilities. Obviously, we must really talk for a very long time about which regulatory act governs what in the field of health, but we must return to the subject of today's legislative initiative so that we can really be clear enough and that people who are not in the health sphere do not go completely wrong and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u55	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, we will absolutely and categorically support this amendment. After all, this really concerns the conclusion of contracts with the Court of Public Hospitals and the existence of such managers. But I don't think it should and it's not fair to be blamed for some nostalgia for the system of Semashko, for the levelling, at the very least. The system is now virtually not applicable in Bulgaria for the reasons that we have an absolutely broken down health infrastructure. We cannot, in any case, say that we are talking, we are talking quite the opposite: of decent basic salaries for the medical staff, doctors, nurses and nurses, depending on experience, qualification, results and opportunities, but this is absolutely different. And the fact that there's been one mistake that we're fixing right now, yes, that's true. After all, there's no point in drama. There's a mistake, there's forgiveness as long as you admit it, not show arrogance and arrogance. There's no point in this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u57	Thank you. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions, No 054-01-17, tabled by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. Vote 163 MPs: 159, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Daritkova, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the long discussion, no applications for changes to the initial proposed bill were made and on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in relation to the almost unanimous vote, I propose that this bill be adopted in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u59	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 159 MPs: 156 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please present the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u60	THE LAW OF THE amending the Law on Medical Institutions § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. Four is Final provisions § 2. In the Public Enterprises Act of art. 20, para. 3 is finally added as doctors or dentists in a medical establishment within the meaning of the Medical Services Act. § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u61	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the name of the Law; the content of § 1 by the name of the division; the content of paragraphs 2 and 3; and all texts by importer. Vote 170 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 3. All texts put to the vote have been adopted. Mr. Stoinev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask you to invite the Prime Minister to parliament... [[Noise in GERB.]] Wait a minute, guys! On the basis of art. 128 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely that the Council of Ministers in the implementation of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution at the beginning of every six months for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and for the priority of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency should still come and report in the Chamber. I think this is quite normal, this is European practice. The Prime Minister, whether today, or if today cannot, tomorrow, I suppose, is prepared a person on our priority topics and files that concern the Portuguese Presidency, indeed to come and explain to the MPs what the priorities of the Council of Ministers are and also to take into account, of course, the priority topics and files during the German Presidency. Since there was indeed a rather exciting Presidency, which concerned, in particular, our country, of course, became famous, and we were quite active, which did not allow our neighbouring country our European development. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to be invited to the Chamber in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Is it Mr. Svilensky's offer back? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] On this topic we spoke at the Board of Presidents Mr. Vigenin was present, I hope he informed you. As I can see, he hasn't informed you what we've decided. Once again, such a procedure... [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] Let me speak, Mr. Vigenin! Such a procedure can be done under art. 53, para. 3 for this week. You can't put it on the agenda anymore. Next week... [[Reply by National Representative Christian Vigenin.]] I said I'd look into it, and next week I'll do what I need to do to see what needs to be done under the Rules. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There's nothing to vote on, Mrs. Daritkova. There's nothing to vote on. There is an offer to invite the Prime Minister, we have no voting procedure. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't authorize you to speak for me. What you said wasn't exactly accurate. I put the matter to the Conference of Presidents. You said, "I'm gonna check it out, and you stopped there. There were other representatives of this chairmanship council. And since after the check that you have probably done, none of us have been informed what your intentions are, I suppose that is why Mr. Stoinev, President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, decided to remind this also here in the Chamber. If you make this commitment to invite the Prime Minister, and in accordance with the Rules, which is by virtue of Law, after all for the country, he should fulfil this commitment, which I think he has not fulfilled in several years. 128 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We have a program we're working on right now. For this week you know how the procedure can happen, and for next week I will inform you about the Programme. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, there is no need to examine the regulations, read the regulations. It is clear that the Prime Minister is not coming. Don't try...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u67	How is that clear, Mr. Svilensky? Are you psychic? How do you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u68	It is clear that a year and four months this man is afraid to come to the gym. Since this National Assembly has been working...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u69	What's your procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u70	My procedure is to follow the rules and regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u72	It is written in the Rules when the Prime Minister should come here for the particular occasion and this is every six months. No need to vote, no need to vote. Art. 53, no need for art. 113. He is just six months old once has to come here to this place, where he hasn't sat down yet for a year and six months will stand up and tell himself what Bulgaria is doing about the problems of the European Union. That's what we want. We don't want to see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u74	We've seen enough of him on TV.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u75	You want to go live.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u76	It should be seen by the Bulgarian citizens, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. We continue with the Committee on Legal Affairs Report. [[(Deputies from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria]] A declaration on behalf of a group. Come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Under the terms of the Monetary Council, fiscal policy is the only instrument for market regulation, for stimulating growth and for restructuring the economy under the criteria of increasing market competition in the European Union and at world economy level. More than surprising is the reluctance of the GERB government for a decade not to change the inherited tax policy, and rather the flat tax. The comparative analysis of statistics from Eurostat, the National Statistical Institute and the Bulgarian National Bank clearly proves that it does not bring positive fiscal, investment and social effects to our country. In Bulgaria, the share of budget revenue from income tax against GDP is lower than European countries with progressive taxation. In fact, there is not a single developed country in the world that has applied flat tax as a means of stimulating the economy and improving living standards. GERB has maintained in recent years a share of budget revenues in GDP within the range of 35 " 37%," which is about 10% lower than the average European indicators, or it is about 10 billion. lv. every year, which are entered into private pockets instead of in the budget for the benefit of the entire Bulgarian people. No coverage finds the propaganda claims of their going-away government to be very successful in collecting taxes. Four illegal cigarette factories were opened in August 2018. Factories, trucks, workers left out of the eyes of mayors, of the NRA, of finance, of customs, of the Ministry of Interior and so on, apparently put to sleep with unspiritual incentives state institutions. And Prime Minister Borisov and his Council of Ministers reported 700 million themselves. lv. unpaid taxes by an organised criminal group in the gambling business, which has apparently successfully incorporated heroes from governing bodies, ministers and other senior officials who should already be subject to law enforcement. We are now likely to pay tens of millions in upcoming cases in Strasbourg as well. By the way, Bulgarian formations have already ruled illegal withdrawal of licenses, seized assets, assets and others. The Directorate-General of Budget of the European Commission repeatedly warns in writing the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency about the insatiable practices of fraud in terms of imported goods, in which the Community and Bulgaria to some extent lose hundreds of millions of euros. Procedures have been initiated that could result in us being condemned by the European Union to pay compensation in hundreds of millions of euros. The propaganda expectations that the lower taxes in Bulgaria will attract foreign investments were not confirmed. On the contrary, compared to the 2007 pre-crisis period, that is, before the introduction of the flat tax, foreign direct investments in Bulgaria have decreased, colleagues, eight times. Particularly dramatic is their contraction over the last three years, in fact they are becoming less than aid in times that send our countrymen from abroad. I'll give you a comparison. The tragedy with foreign investment is that in Bulgaria they are around and below 1 billion. Euros, as I said: eight times less than the pre-crisis period. In neighbouring Serbia last year, investments were 4 billion and 200 million. That is, four times more than Bulgaria. You know that Serbia is not a member of the European Union, does not use support pre-accession funds that should attract additional foreign investments. At the end of their mandate within the European Union GERB and its subordinates reported the lowest foreign investments, as I said, which did not lead to an increase in investments in Bulgaria, did not lead to an increase in the standard of living. There is no doubt that the flat tax and the slaving of disconnected from real social economic indicators great successes in quotes, with low government debt, credit rating and the waiting room of the euro can not hide this rigid unhappiness picture. Firstly, in the last 10 years, our public debt has doubled, and 18 billion have been withdrawn in the period 2017 - 2020. lv. The total debt level, which leaves this government, has drawn close to 40 billion. lv. Secondly, the credit rating refers to our country's ability to repay its debts. Yes, at this stage this is not yet a serious problem, but if the trend of massive withdrawal of government loans does not turn, we will soon enter the trap of the debt spiral. Moreover, from next year we have significant payments on this debt, which occur due to maturity in debt service. Thirdly, is it not obvious that our entry into the Banking Union and the Eurozone waiting room have mostly the character of election propaganda and the diversion of attention from the growing huge corruption scandals?! Because with these lowest economic and social indicators, we have no chance of catching up soon countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, which neither are nor intend to enter banking unions and jackals of the euro area. The Bulgarian Socialist Party proposes an alternative to the current budgetary policy. It is consistent with proven European practices and compliance with all the requirements of the European Union with the criteria for financial stability. Firstly, we believe that the share of budget revenue and expenditure should gradually come closer to the average of the European Union. Secondly, we are betting on progressive taxation on natural persons' incomes. This is our consistent policy and I think we have already four times imported this project, which has been rejected by the government. For people with income up to 3900 leva. The rate remains 10%, growing in small steps to a level of 10,000. 400 BGN, where it reaches just below 30%. This allocated tax is significantly below the average level of the similar tax in the European Union, where it amounts to about 44%. In essence, the current rate of taxation for the middle class remains unchanged. These changes, as well as the extension of the tax base to taxation and the income from dividends, from shares and the increase of the maximum insurance income to BGN 3900. will increase budget revenue by about 1 billion. 800 million. lv. We took the data from the Ministry of Finance in the excel tables of specific remuneration, with the specific taxes being paid, and we established this difference of 1 billion. 800 million. BGN, which, when changing this taxation, we will be able to use as an additional source for the implementation of our alternative social program. First, the introduction of a differentiated VAT rate on medicines, medical services, basic food goods; exemption from youth tax to 26 years of age; reduction of the tax obligations of families with children; free textbooks for students from I to XII grade; additional funding of specialized investment fund to stimulate the economic development of the backward regions in Bulgaria. My fellow Members, in most EU countries, there are state-owned encouraging banks that governments use as a key tool to implement their economic policy. The Bank for Development is an important place in the Bulgarian Vision for Bulgaria and in the Project of our election platform. We believe that the process of increasing the potential of the Bank should be accelerated, extending its scope of action and improving the preferential lending conditions for our small and medium-sized companies. The Bank's participation in larger investment projects with particular importance for our national economy is also possible. This must be associated with the public private partnership, sufficient investment return and significant social impact. In strict compliance with its rules, the Bulgarian Development Bank must create favourable financial conditions for technological and product renewal of Bulgarian companies. In other words, to do everything that the current government does not require. The current government unscrupulously uses the Bulgarian Development Bank to provide preferential and essentially risky lending to companies and individuals closely related to the party elite of the government. Not that in the Rules of Procedure of the Bank, it says, I quote: The priorities in the activities of the Bank are in line with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding small and medium-sized enterprises. Why are we saying that the government is doing the opposite of what encouraging banks in Europe are doing? First, spring 2018, to recall the scandalous case of Intercom and CEZ Bulgaria, where the government had obviously put pressure on the Development Bank to issue guarantees for more than 100 million. EUR for a privatization operation of some fictional company. April 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. To an owl company, under absolutely dubious conditions for the return of the money.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u79	Guide to completion, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u80	I quote the Prime Minister: I am appalled by what the BBI has done. and we say that we are outraged by the prime minister because he is so outraged that the head of the Supervisory of the Bank then raised him to the rank of minister. In conclusion, the Bulgarian Socialist Party believes that the return to proven models of economic policies in the leading countries of the European Union, the restoration of legal order, the eradication of corruption and the creation of a favourable environment for our and foreign investors will allow our country to take a decent place among its European partners. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. We continue with the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXEMPTION, NOTIFICED BY DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND ON THE REFUNDING OF THE CONSEQUENCES. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-3, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova Prodanova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021, adopted on the first vote on 22 January 2021. The Act for Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u83	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u84	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We will vote against the title of this bill because the place of any changes relating to the electoral process is in the Election Code and not in another law. Because the state of emergency has expired, and this law, where you propose measures concerning the electoral process, is on dealing with the consequences of the emergency situation, and not on election rules. The electoral code is this legal act which covers all the matter related to the organisation of elections. That is to say, there should be no rules outside the Code that affect elections, because in the event of a conflict between these norms, it is the Election Code that applies. And there's collusion, there's contradictions, and you've put it in your suggestions. We will vote against because you, proposing rules governing the electoral process in this law, not in the Code, are betting and minimizing the upcoming elections. You're in violation of basic rules and regulations. You are clearly violating the Law on Legislative Acts, which is very clear, which is explicit, which states that public relations from the same area are governed by one and not by several regulations of the same degree. In para. 2 of art. 10 it is very clear and categorically said that public relations belonging to an area for which there is a regulatory act issued, and it is called the Election Code, are governed by its supplement or amendment and not by a separate act of the same degree. What could be clearer than that? You should be aware of these rules, but you're doing the opposite. That is why I think that you deliberately or out of incompetence create regulatory chaos, which will inevitably affect both the electoral process in particular and all public relations in general. You are the ruling majority and you have all the responsibility for the created regulatory chaos because what you are doing undermines the foundations of statehood, undermines trust in the institutions, undermines confidence in the legislative body. We strongly refuse and oppose this chaos, this process, which is why we will vote against the forthcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tzipov, I see you. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Last year, the National Assembly adopted a Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and its consequences, which amended a number of laws, such as the Labour Code, the Social Security Code, the Law on State Staff, the Law on Foreigners and others. Measures were put in place, on the one hand, to address the consequences of the spread of COVID-19 virus and, on the other hand, the introduction of specialised socio-economic, financial and health measures to respond to the situation in the country in relation to the spread of the disease. This law was subsequently amended on several occasions to introduce new measures for health, social, economic, environmental protection and others. The expected results of the implementation of all these measures are to address both the health and the socio-economic and financial consequences of the spread and infection with COVID-19 and prevent the deterioration of the epidemic situation in the country. With this law, which we have adopted, we have arranged in a specific way public relations in various areas in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation which continues to exist as a consequence of the emergency situation which has been declared because of the CIVID-19 pandemic. The spread of this contagious disease can be defined as an unusually severe emergency situation in which different types of measures are to be taken, which are undoubtedly necessary, on the one hand, for the safe conduct of the elections and, on the other hand, for the actual and possible guarantee of the voter's right to vote. This law, which we are considering today, governs many public relations. The provisions that we propose to adopt with the amendment of this law on the production of elections in 2021 will have the same application, which depends on the duration of the epidemiological situation introduced in the country and the consequences of the spread of this contagious disease. We firmly believe that in the current situation it is necessary to introduce only measures to enable the normal exercise of the right of vote of the Bulgarian citizens, and, honourable Members of the National Assembly, this does not impose at all costs a permanent framework in the Election Code. It is for this reason that, based on the electoral rules introduced in the Election Code, with the change in this law, we merely state the way in which the voting of the people who are placed under quarantine could take place, with one single objective of ensuring their ability to vote as the Bulgarian Constitution dictates.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think there should be a problem with the name of the Law. It is not really with the name, we have returned, unfortunately, to the first reading and discussion whether these changes proposed in this law should be in the Election Code. These changes are specifically consistent with the disease known as COVID-19 caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They are not intended and are not general provisions regarding voting in any epidemic. There are no general abstract rules in all types of viruses, in all types of epidemics or pandemics that may occur. And in this sense, the rank of their arrangement is logical not to be in the Election Code. Moreover, the special law, as Mr. Tzipov has already said, aims to provide measures to protect the lives and health of citizens, to help citizens and businesses related to the fight against the epidemic, both with the introduction of anti-epidemic measures and with various other economic and social measures to help the population in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, it is quite logical for these rules to be settled, all the more so that they are abstract, they are not specific. The basic framework remains in the Election Code and, insofar as there are no rules in the Law on Measures and Actions during a state of emergency and for overcoming the consequences, the Election Code will no doubt apply. Just for example, since this is not some kind of innovation only of the Bulgarian National Assembly, in Poland in exactly the same way there was adopted in 2020. Law on presidential elections, which is special, which is not a common electoral law of Poland, which governs precisely these rules, and which applies only to this situation of a pandemic. Their law provides that if there are no special provisions in it, their general electoral law shall apply. In this sense, I think it is right that the systematic place of these changes should be in this law and not in the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer with the corresponding version in the name of the Law. They voted 136 MPs: 96, against 36, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u90	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 28: Art. 28. (1) When producing elections in 2021 during an emergency epidemic situation, the Minister of Health shall, in agreement with the Chief State Health Inspector, introduce anti-epidemic measures relating to the electoral process. (2) The Central Election Commission on the basis of the anti-epidemic measures under para. 1 by decision shall determine the organisation of election and vote of voters, including voters placed under mandatory quarantine or compulsory isolation under the Health Act. (3) Voters placed under mandatory quarantine or compulsory isolation under the Health Act shall vote with mobile electoral boxes within the meaning of Chapter fourteen, Section IX of the Election Code, subject to all anti-epidemic measures. The time limit for the submission of applications for voting with a mobile electoral box shall be no later than three days before the election day. The authorities referred to in art. 23, para. 1 of the Election Code shall list voters by sentence first on the voting list with a mobile electoral box after carrying out a check in the relevant regional health inspection for which reference is made. (4) The number of members of the sectional election committees under para. 3 shall be no less than three members appointed in compliance with the requirements of the Election Code. (5) The decision under para. 2 shall be declared in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 2. 57, para. 2 of the Election Code and can be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court under the order of art. 58 of the same code. (6) In the event of election proceedings in 2021 during an exceptional epidemic situation with a decision of the Central Election Commission, the number of members of a selection panel outside the country may be no less than three members appointed subject to the requirements of the Election Code. (7) The Council of Ministers shall ensure the election process by all necessary means of protection and shall be included in the election account plan. (8) In the production of indoor events of parties, coalitions and initiative committees related to the elections under para. 1, including during the election campaign, anti-epidemic measures to visit cinemas, theatres and concert halls are applied. (9) The events outside those under para. 8 related to pre-election campaigning shall be carried out in compliance with the anti-epidemic measures introduced. (10) The Central Election Commission shall conduct a detailed and training campaign for the vote during an emergency epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable importers! As is clear from our statements, we will not support this bill, including § 1, Article 1. 28, as we are of the opinion that the Central Election Commission should not and cannot draw up voting rules. You are proposing legislative measures that actually mix competences and shift hierarchy. What do I mean, colleagues? The Central Election Commission shall be set up and acting, and its powers and competences shall be in accordance with the Election Code, and it shall comply with and follow orders and instructions of authorities created by orders such as the operational headquarters, the vaccination headquarters or the Minister of Health. I will return to the opinion of the Central Election Commission, however, which states in it that it does not have the competence and lacks the necessary capacity to draw up the so-called health protocol, and recommends that this be done by the Council of Ministers. We also believe that it is a collision between who can vote under the rules of the Election Code and who can vote with a mobile section under the Law on Measures and Actions during the emergency situation. Yes, certainly those people who are quarantined and sick should exercise their right to vote, but I do not agree that in the way you propose this will happen. According to the Election Code, those who are sick and have the relevant TELK or NELK state their desire to vote in a mobile section within one period, which is usually 30 days before the elections, following the instructions of the CEC, which are to be issued and usually held meetings between the political forces in the respective mayors to set up the number of section election committees. In this bill you propose to state the possibility of voting no later than three days before the elections. Then I ask the question: how will this sectary committee be established, who is the authority that will do it? The question of representativeness is also raised. According to the Election Code, art. There are up to 500 voters with no more than seven people and not less than five people. You're offering three people. It violates the representation we have in the respective Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would also raise the question, and how will the respective electoral lists be drawn up, since at present they are drawn up on a permanent address, and who is quarantined or sick, how will he do it by email or telephone? As a conclusion from your legislative activity, I can say that there are no conditions for voting sick and quarantined, but rather an electoral chaos that will not do any good. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Vigenin, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I don't know if what you've suggested is already repairable. You'll see, you'll accept it. The truth is that if you really wanted to organise elections in which the risk to voters and members of the sectional election committees was, above all, minimal, we could simply change the election law, and even in this law, let us say that in electoral sections with over 300 voters, voting takes place only with machines. Then the interaction between the members of the sectional election committees would be minimized, respectively, and the observers, simply by pressing the button of the machine would come out and then there would be no risks, but you definitely do not want the machine voting to be implemented. So now we are doing a lot of these things that will continue to create risk. But specifically under § 21, para. 3 I would like to do one thing if you accept that it is a technical proposal for change, namely to ensure that people who are put under quarantine can still vote, registering these Bulgarian citizens not three, but one day before the elections. I think it's quite possible to organize it technically. I myself was literally two weeks ago an observer of the elections in Kazakhstan, where the possibility to declare such a vote is not only not three days earlier but was 12:00 on the election day. I think that our electoral administration, and the other one that is relevant to the organisation of elections, can guarantee that people who are put under quarantine at the last moment will have the opportunity to be visited by these moving sections and be able to exercise their right to vote. Why do you need these three days after all in a modern communication that allows in real time almost to know who is quarantined, who wants to vote. Therefore, I do not want to go further into these arguments, but I am making a technical proposal to replace it by one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. I'll put your proposal to the vote. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposals with Mr. Tsonev to § 1 are largely contained in the proposals and in the opinion of the Central Election Commission, as well as in the proposals of colleagues from all parliamentary groups. So I'm only going to refer to one of them. 5 of our proposal, namely during all party indoor events related to the elections, the provisions concerning visiting cinemas, theaters and concert halls apply. Why are we making this offer? Because currently under restrictions, on the one hand, there is a ban on collecting more than 20 people indoors, and on the other hand, this ban does not apply when there is a theater performance in these indoors, a film production is being screened or there is a concert. This contradiction gives priority to those formations that rely only on concerts in their campaign, and parties should lower their meetings to 20 people. In other words, those who perform concerts will fill the halls, and those who perform party campaigning and present their own programs will have to gather 20 people. We are making this proposal to level the regime, which is to give the parties a chance to gather as many people as they will gather the parties from show business. And we do it so we don't turn every party meeting and every meeting with the voters into a concert. Because agree that it will not sound beautiful in the media to say that today the political party Hicks held its election concert with its sympathizers. It's funny, and it only works for one show business formation. We want to overcome this contradiction in the limitations and equalize this regime. I thank my colleagues from the Legal Commission for supporting our proposals in the Commission. I hope you'll support them in this room as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u98	Madam President, honourable Members! The group of the United Patriarchs has a problem with para. 8, which gives precisely the right to gather people, although the epidemic situation is serious. The gathering of the people first, to say that if at your election rally or your meeting in the village of Hicks come more? The hall is for 100 people and there are 50 people coming, and you have the right to bring into this room 30 people, the other 20 people what are we going to do with them? We're gonna get them back?! That's not gonna happen, including a party meeting. Let's assume that at a party meeting, the disciplined members of each party can come 20 people in groups every half an hour until we can't do this for the election campaign, first. Second, if I want to make a problem for my competitor, but of course I'm gonna put 30 more people in it, I'm gonna take a picture of it, and I'm gonna put it on RZI. These are all hypotheses that need to be considered. That is precisely why we do not agree at all with the existence of this para. 8. Because of this, I am proposing a split vote on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I see that the discussion is being heated as a continuation of some media publications yesterday around this proposal, summarised by the Commission as the editing of para. 8. I would like, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to bring enough clarity on this subject so that there is no speculation, as there is obviously also media speculation, and I see that there is a misunderstanding in this House as well. Dear colleagues! There is a contradiction in the anti-epidemic measures, hence this proposal. What does the order say about anti-epidemic measures? On the one hand, in order to prevent the spread of the disease, no more than 20 persons may be collected in one place. On the other hand, when there is a cultural event, such a meeting is allowed at 30%, I think it was from the hall. I ask, there are doctors here, and let them answer me: what is the difference from an anti-epidemic point of view in bringing some people into a room? To make the clarification: we are definitely not opposed to staying the regime for cultural events! We are absolutely not opposed to performing concerts and theatre performances in front of an audience under this regime, which is currently in place, although in Europe the theatres, large opera theatres and concert halls have been closed to the public for almost a year. But we have chosen this model, and we of the DPS support this.. Let there be such events, they are even more needed today at this time when people cannot leave the house much. From an anti-epidemic point of view, I ask again: what is the difference in the gathering of some people in a room................... whether they will listen and watch a performance or listen to a concert, or on another occasion, are gathered in this room under equal conditions? There's no difference from an anti-epidemic point of view, is there? [[Noise and lines.]] No, there's no difference, absolutely no difference! It's said in al. 8 that this can only be done in compliance with anti-epidemic measures and in compliance with the regime. If you think the difference is that in one case the measures will be respected and in the other not, please, this is not an argument. It is the same as saying that a text of a law should not be adopted because someone will not respect it. He's got sanctions, he's got control, he's got everything he needs. So equalize the anti-epidemic regime. Let it be leveled! That is why we have proposed that it be leveled, following the measures that are intended for gathering people in the hall. Otherwise, it's just hypocrisy, nothing else. Thank you. Do not forget to say that the text concerns the informed choice of Bulgarian citizens, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. I don't know how that's gonna happen if there's no way to communicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, my line is about the text of this para. 8. This is what it says in the event of party events of parties, coalitions and committee initiatives related to Elections 2021 to follow the measures as they are in theatres, cinemas and so on, including in the election campaign. Please be specified by the legislator: who are these parties, coalitions and initiative committees related to the elections, and why is it provided for separately during the election campaign? This means that from the adoption of the Law, all parties who are planning to participate in the elections are connected with the elections, and they will start to do election events from the adoption and entry into force of the Law? Because the fact that they're in an election campaign is a special place in this item. 8. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Second line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, the difference between cultural events and party meetings is as follows: In one place, when it is a cultural event and tickets are sold, you sell 30% of the tickets in existing places, while in the other case you cannot control the flow of people. Because they came of their own free will and didn't pay for it. When you sell 30 seats out of 100, 30 people will come, just can't come 100 or 50. On the other hand, on the other hand, when we do pre-election campaign in a movie theater, you can have the best desire to comply with this anti-epidemic measure up to 30%, but that is no longer up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the answer to the two lines is the same. It is about uniformising the regime for the use of halls, honourable Members. Nothing more, nothing less! If the regime is 30%, who is responsible for complying with this anti-epidemic measure? The organizer, of course! [[Reply on the right.]] How's he wearing? Well, well, if you think the text is not enough, we can supplement it editorially. The organizer of the party and coalition is responsible for the respect of employment according to the anti-epidemic measure, that is, she is responsible, the penalty will be imposed on her and so on. Who is responsible for performing a theatre performance at a concert? The organizer. It shall be subject to the measure if the conditions are not met. Here is the question again to repeat in response to the first reply of the regime for the use of halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this Chamber, most of you have participated in election campaigns and it is clear to them how a meeting is going, even more to the respected many of me, Mr. Tsonev, who has been involved since the beginning of the 1990s, is probably going to be your 30th election campaign, at least this will be my 27th. So we know very well how a party meeting is held. And you know it best, as I know it, and a very large part of my colleagues know it. It has nothing to do with theatrical performances and so on. [[Reply of MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Colleagues, after all, in a party organization, the sympathizers of a party come on a voluntary basis, and there will hardly be a party leader who in the gym, who, for example, has to be 30% borrowing, will start fighting with his own sympathizers who have come to hear something, to hear the platform and, believe me, the gym will be filled. As far as sanctions are concerned, Mr. Tsonev, as far as sanctions are concerned, you said the organizer answered, of course. The organizer finally, since he won't be able to hold his own people...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u109	How could he not?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u110	Well, I won't! These aren't soldiers, Mr. Tsonev! For example, you say 30 people at the meeting, they come 100.. the other 70 people will not be allowed in the hall?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u111	Well, he won't let them go! It's about health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u112	Okay, it's about health.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u113	Do not engage in dialogue with the House, Mr. Atanasov! Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u114	Okay, let's not get into any arguments. We've had a meeting, you see how it works.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u115	For 20 people, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u116	So in this respect, our proposal is quite reasonable. It's quite reasonable under these conditions. Under these conditions! And this is our proposal to release this text. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u117	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. I'll give the floor to Mr. Veleov. Here you go, Mr. Veleov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u118	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A little more artistic speech with a sense of humor, though, to lighten the atmosphere, but it includes, of course, purely technical truth. We, the musicians we're recording in a studio, if you've noticed, have some black circular nets in front of the microphones that stop what's called compression. These are certain letters that throw out a lot of air. Usually with the air, in this case, unfortunately, in a pandemic environment, this thing causes saliva disposal and is very dangerous to health. Generally, words that contain "p" and would possibly be scandalized at such meetings as BSP or DPS are dangerous to health. [[Radio and laughter from GERB and OP.]] It is very important that we limit and protect people. It's purely technical, of course, with a sense of humor, but it's true. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Veleov. You made the room laugh. - What's the line? I can't see. [[DPS lines.]] You have a line, Mr. Karadaye. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u120	Thank you. Sorry, my line is in question mark. Is the PCP abbreviation in this category or is it not in this category? [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u121	Mr. Karadaye!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u123	I'll refrain from commenting. That was so ugly! Colleagues, we are continuing with Mr. Zarkov's statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate started on perhaps not the most important question. I would remind you that the entire exercise in drawing up this bill was to ensure the fundamental question of how tens of them would vote, perhaps thousands of Bulgarian citizens quarantined with the relevant act of the health authorities in relation to the epidemiological situation. It was about the Bulgarian citizens much more than how the parties will organise the campaign and at least the qualities of the microphones, jokes and banter about the abbreviations of the political forces. Since I would not allow myself how dangerous it is to protect the microphone and how songs or dances are performed in enclosed spaces, I want to explain to you why we opposed the Law and continue to do so and why it will not achieve its entire starting point of view. It's not just annoying that we're telling you that these rules should be in the Election Code, not here! Alinea 1 has been corrected since our debate in the Legal Committee. Alinea 2 and, more precisely, paragraphs 3 and 4 refer to those mobile urns which should actually carry out the main objective of the Law. There's a problem here too! The problem is this: what is written in the Law is contrary to the Election Code. Most of you from a common culture know that there is a hierarchy of norms in law. The code is a higher hierarchical norm than the law. Therefore, in the event of a contradiction, the applicable law is written in the code. The lex specialis rule of speciality, which is regulated, can also apply under uniform legal norms. If this norm had been recorded in the Code as a transitional or other legislative technique for this situation, for these elections it would have produced an effect. Otherwise, you're putting the administration in an absurd situation. And I'll give you just one example. You say that you will be voting with mobile electoral boxes within the meaning of Chapter fourteen, Section IX of the Election Code and the deadline for submission of applications is no later than 3 days. Of course the deadline has to be shorter because the quarantine is short. However, the Election Code itself in the chapter that you are quoting refers to art. 37 of the Election Code, where the same term is 14 days. Another example. You say that the number of members of the sectary electoral committee is not less than three who are required to comply with the requirements of the Code and only that the requirements of the Code cannot be met in three and their requirements are to have consultations on compositions of the electoral committees 18 days before the elections and the quarantine is 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u125	Ten days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u126	Of course you don't know how much you'll need them then. I can give you a few more of these examples, but the good thing about this case is that there is a solution. Basically, the rules are in place. Now they must not be accepted. From BSP last week we introduced the Election Code with two significant changes that enjoy great public trust. One is related to video surveillance, the other is related to clearing the electoral lists. Do not vote on this now, but next week to look at the proposals in the Election Code submitted by the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its parliamentary group, and they can be entered inside as they are, but technically correct and so as to produce an effect. I am afraid that, both at the first point, about which the legislative chaos has been mentioned several times, and on this point, I do not know for what reason, instead of solving a problem for which there is already enough agreement, it is only complicated and complicated. And otherwise for the artistry of the stands, he may be interesting, but he doesn't solve people's problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u127	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In the debate on this bill and on the first vote, both today and yesterday, when we examined it in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we heard different opinions which, unfortunately, must be refuted. Again, once again, let us repeat that the purpose of this bill is only in compliance with all the requirements of the Election Code to enable the election process to take place in an anti-epidemic environment by ensuring that Bulgarian citizens placed under quarantine are able to vote. We have heard from the predecessors that we are introducing some serious exceptions that contradict the Election Code and regarding the formation of sections, and regarding the entry on the electoral lists, we are talking about different references to the current texts of the Election Code. In fact, let us explain exactly and clearly what our idea was. Once we allow those Bulgarian voters who are quarantined to vote precisely in this way, which currently provides for the Election Code for people with permanent disabilities, we respect all the requirements of the Election Code. And what are they? It was quoted several times in Art. 37 of the Election Code suppose an application and entry on a voting list with a mobile electoral box. What does art. 37? That any voter who wishes to vote with a mobile electoral box in the case of the Election Code, these are the voters with permanent disabilities, stating their wish no later than 14 days. This means that this is the application by which they express their desire to form such a section, honourable Members of the National Assembly. The next paragraph of that article says that this can happen if the person has stated no later than five days before the election day. What do we offer with the editing of § 1? This period is not to be five days, but to be three days, on the one hand, but, on the other hand, as is currently envisaged in the Election Code, to check the relevant document certifying the permanent damage, to have the possibility and the competent authorities to check it, these are the regional health inspections, whether the person is present in the Single Information Portal (COVID-19) and to return a reference to the relevant number of persons who can exercise their right after they have stated that they want to vote with a mobile electoral box. Yes, we have observed various practices in different countries, but ultimately let us hope that this trend in reducing the spread of the coronavirus and reducing the number of both those who are placed for treatment in hospitals and those who are quarantined will be the same during the election day. However, there must be time for the competent authority in the person of the regional health inspection concerned to be able to carry out this inspection and to notify the authorities referred to in Article. 23, who must form the electoral list. It is a matter of these individuals being able to declare their wish until Thursday before the election day Sunday, and on Friday and Saturday the corresponding health inspections can make this reference and send it to the municipal administrations. We thought a lot about what this day would be like two days, three days, we decided that we needed to indicate this deadline to be Thursday before election day. Given that we continue to be in an emergency epidemic situation, we believe that this is necessary to the extent that we allow as many voters as possible to exercise their vote in this complex environment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u129	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. - What's the line? Mr. Vigenin's statement is dismissed because he made the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u130	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tzipov, dear colleagues! I don't know how you imagine cross-checking those lists? Maybe printed on some leaves and some RZI employees from the leaves to compare names. I suppose that's why you give such deadlines. I think modern technology allows as soon as the RZI list is sent, a program is released, the names that are on both lists come out, and literally in minutes a confirmation from RZI can be returned to each of the regional election committees. So I think these three days you're giving, it just doesn't seem serious to me. I also hope that there will be no quarantined at this date, however, as the loosening of the measures goes, it may turn out to be more than now and we cannot wish to reason. There is therefore a risk that we will deprive a small number of citizens of the opportunity to exercise their right to vote on the 4th. Therefore, I reaffirm my proposal to be one day, on-the-spot employees will work on Saturdays to confirm the list of those who will have the right to such a visit from a mobile section and I see nothing complicated about it. However, to say that I also confirm Mr. Zarkov's position that he does not belong here, in this law, in this thing, but because you are very keen to make it happen here, so I am joining this discussion and I would really like to make this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u131	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. As I told you before, I'm going to put her to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr Vigenin, as of today at least according to information from the Unified Information Portal, the quarantined persons are a little more than 15 thousand, if memory serves me right. Finally, I think that we should give a reasonable period of time to the extent that the competent authorities are able to verify this Single Information Portal. On Friday, two days before election day, to see how many quarantined individuals are and Saturday to send the municipal administrations to include them in the voting list with a mobile electoral box. What is the possibility, I cannot say at the moment, but ultimately let us see how the vote goes on your proposal as well. It is no accident that I noted in my statement that for those with permanent disabilities, who are also not in all likelihood a small number, the time limit is five days. Therefore, I think, at least we importers believe that three days is a reasonable time to the extent that we cannot allow all those who wish to exercise the vote in this way to state this and the competent authority, of course, to be able to carry out an inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will address questions that my colleague Tsypov has made clear to us regarding the version adopted by the Commission of § 1. One of the questions that was raised was why the Central Election Commission was the authority which, after issuing the order of the Minister of Health would decide by decision in the methodological guidelines or in another act, the specific measures relating to the production of the elections. In fact, this is an approach that is not new. It was implemented by Romania, with its electoral commission there even approving a joint order issued by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Interior, which precisely provides for similar anti-epidemic measures. Moreover, in the very opinion of the Central Election Commission, which is fully in line with this text, it is proposed that the Minister of Health adopt the rules for quarantine, life and health of voters and that the Central Election Commission comply with those rules. This is the editing, if you notice, of art. 28, para. 1 of § 1 in the Bill and respectively para. 2, which is systemically connected to it. As for the question raised about the number of members of the sectary electoral commission under para. 3 and the requirement that this number is not less than three members. The requirement is not to be smaller. If the parties and coalitions, respectively, manage to broadcast more people, of course, it will be bigger and will comply with the provisions of the Election Code. This is why it is written: it is important to comply with the requirements of the Election Code. However, it is understood not only the number but also the requirement for members to be representatives of different political forces. That is, if parties and coalitions do not offer a larger number than three, these three members of the relevant selection commission, which will serve the mobile electoral box accordingly, will be from different parties, which will ensure to the maximum extent the integrity of the vote. And by no means, if they were more, it wouldn't be a violation of that norm. The norm is guarded and practically provides for a mandatory minimum number below which should not fall the members of this sectary electoral commission, which will serve the mobile electoral box. I believe that the term of three days, which is written in para. 3 is sufficient so that the right of the quarantined persons to vote can be effectively ensured. A shorter period could lead to an application which, after that, clearly organisationally and administratively, cannot be secured and, in practice, cannot be realised the voting right of the respective voter who has declared it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u135	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In relation to the text under consideration, I would like to add to the debate the following that, despite the broad discussions held both in an institution neighbouring us and the comments from all the political forces - parliamentary and extra-parliamentary, I can say that only GERB tabled a bill that would actually meet the needs and the unprecedented situation in which elections will be held in 2021 in Bulgaria. And let's not forget, they won't just be parliamentary, they'll be president. But let's get back to the point. The quarantined persons in Bulgaria, I hope to continue the trend to decrease, but in this regard there is a mechanism which in the mobile sections has been developed, submitted to the discussion today, again I say, by the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, and all other claimed criticisms to the text have not added anything constructive and nothing positive and I do not understand how we can decide and defend the constitutional right to vote of those people who will then be quarantined at home or in hospitals, specialized wards in the treatment of COVID-19. I will return a little further back to the reproaches for the three-day period when submitting the application that these persons cannot be included in the mobile voting sections. Let's go back in time when there are about 10 listed diseases in the Health Act, which unfortunately do not pass Bulgarian citizens and where there is mandatory quarantine. I think that this opportunity was not then considered so precisely by the legislator. Working in the current situation in the face of a pandemic, and worldwide, when we really expect there to be a large number of quarantined persons, mostly meeting the conditions under which it is normal to hold elections and all Bulgarian citizens to be able to exercise their constitutional right to vote. On the left side of the Chamber there were also reproaches about the number of members of the mobile electoral committees, which I do not agree with. Three people is the minimum that we have set in the Bill, colleagues, but I think there may also be more members in the sectional election committees with the mobile urns. There are conditions again under the rules of the CEC and the Election Code, and they must be from different political forces. In comments, I have mentioned many times that the biggest guarantee of honesty, transparency and non-disputing results of any kind held in Bulgaria is precisely the presence of representatives of all political forces in the section polling committees, those who respect the vote of Bulgarian citizens in elections. That is why I say that the submitted bill by the MPs from GERB and "United Patriarchs" is the only one currently working, proposed even by the critics, so I will vote for..................................................................................... I hope we will find wider support in this House because it is the only text that solves the problem of voting quarantined Bulgarian citizens in the conditions of the pandemic with CIVID-19. I say again that it is not only for the current parliamentary elections, that there should not be a continuing situation, but there are conditions that may occur in the autumn of 2021 when the presidential elections are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u137	There are partial choices.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u138	From the Chamber I am being corrected at the moment that there are partial elections being held, so we should not restrict the right of Bulgarian citizens under quarantine to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u139	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Ebatine, second line, Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, let us close the debate and vote on this point and then I will rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u140	Madam President, honourable Members! We are talking about a guarantee of the integrity of elections and of the non-controversial outcome of political parties. In addition to their participation in sectional election committees, they must know that such a guarantee must be given by the voter. What guarantee will the voter give if his right of contact with political parties and candidates is limited? Therefore, we ask the DPS: will this choice determine the future government of the state for the next four years, for example? He'll figure it out! Why should the right of Bulgarian citizens be restricted to have informed contact with candidates for MPs, provided that the Minister's order gives the right to contact Bulgarian citizens with Bulgarian artists? Here we have turned the stage of the National Assembly into the stage of the National Theatre. There are colleagues from the artistic circles, thinking they're competent to be on stage and that it's the same as being competent and being on the stand, but it's not! It's different, and you look like weak actors. That is why I appeal to you to address the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which is fully argued: within the framework of the order of the Minister of Health for 30% fill of the Chamber, to allow the voter to have an informed choice in order to elect his MPs. It is about the electoral power that will govern the country in the next four years, and all the more so that the right to free choice can not be limited and this is constitutionally laid down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Second line, Mr. Zarkov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u142	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I will not go into dispute with you about the number of sections and whether it is compatible with the Election Code. I hope that I have made my position clear today and also yesterday in the Commission. The dispute is largely pointless if there is no elementary hearing. I take a line on something else because you mentioned the consultations with the President and the role of the opposition. I would remind you that many different proposals have emerged at the President's consultations, but several have highlighted a high public consensus, a health protocol on how to vote, a way of quarantined, facilitating the vote abroad, video surveillance of the census after the election day is over. These are the things that stood out. You did two things wrong, and you would have made a mistake if it wasn't for the opposition. Firstly, at first reading, you proposed to the CEC to do things that cannot be done with regard to the health protocol, and in the context of our criticism and in the context of the public reaction you corrected it, unfortunately, wrong. Yesterday you presented us a text which was unconstitutional because it said that the Minister of Health would adopt certain rules which should be done by law under the Constitution. Today you have done the editing well, this is our contribution, but our main contribution is not in this. Our main contribution is that a week ago on January 21st, we submitted proposals where they belong in the Election Code. If you approach this issue wisely, you must now stop this chaos and take advantage of our proposal to introduce video surveillance at the same time, while these decisions are essentially correct, to find an application where they belong. This is the contribution of the opposition, of the consultations and in fact on this contribution, which was a good track for work, you have only made complications.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u143	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Ivanov, I can't see you. And you were in the front row and ready to do the douche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u144	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen replicating! Thanks for the two lines. Mr. Ebatine, to say that this challenge is entirely for politicians to find a way to inform voters, to introduce them to our programmes, to motivate them to vote. For me, high turnout is also an important part of the political process, which is largely the responsibility of political parties and political parties to motivate their voters. And I say again: the situation on a global scale is unprecedented. We have seen that elections have taken place in other European countries, too, in compliance with certain measures and rules, so politicians need to find more innovative ways to reduce our programmes and political views to our potential voters. Mr. Zarkov, first of all, I agree with you that the debate with the President was held by a large part of opposition parties, in which there is nothing wrong. What gave birth to the debate with him? The election date! The great commitment of Bulgarian citizens abroad is the only thing you do not foresee. I think that the current version, which we propose for the validity of the documents with which Bulgarian citizens abroad can vote, is the right step in this direction. The consultation of opposition parties and the BSP with the President deprived a large part of Bulgarian citizens living abroad to exercise their right to vote because the date 4 April is a holiday and vacation of one week for most Catholic countries. Nothing is going to work, and I think this is going to limit the debate to what extent and the outcome of the consultations with the President. When we comment on the conduct of the elections and the rules proposed in this amendment, give your personal example. How were the elections held for President of the BSP, and in an emergency epidemic situation? What anti-epidemic measures did the BSP implement when choosing to be president? If memory serves, your members have even voted with mobile sections. If you think it's your best contribution, let's take it to the current vote on Parliament to preserve the health of citizens who will want to vote. How have they been able to vote on the quarantined members of the BSP as Chairman of the BSP and on members of the sectional election committees in the conduct of a direct choice? The personal example is very important! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u145	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment to para. 3 which Mr. Vigenin suggested the term three days before the election day to change to one day. Vote 162 MPs: 62, against 77, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Sabanov's proposal, which is for a split vote on para. 8 out of the whole text. They voted 163 MPs: 106, against 20, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. I shall put the text of para to the vote. 8. Vote 160 MPs: 58, against 82, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u146	Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u147	Thank you, Madam President. In that case, since we didn't accept al. 8 in the version of the Commission, I propose a technical version of para. 9: drop the text outside those under para. The text should also take place: "The events related to election campaigning shall be carried out in compliance with the anti-epidemic measures introduced.'
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u148	Please renumber the other paragraphs by voting procedure and the other paragraphs accordingly. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I haven't announced a break yet, we're voting right now! They voted 130 MPs: 118, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 with the corresponding changes that were adopted just now. Vote 157 MPs: 120 against 2, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u149	Under § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid: In § 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 words during an emergency epidemic situation shall be removed and after the words................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u150	Are there any statements under § 2? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by the Commission of the MPs Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid. Vote 79 MPs: 5 against 56, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 2 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Before you go any further, I'm paying attention to the MPs putting on their masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u151	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division: Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Gambling Act, the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In § 86, para. 1 and 2 the figure 2. In § 87, para. 2 after the words the licences issued shall be added, which shall expire after 1 January 2020. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u152	I shall open the deliberations on the title of the section, both under § 3 and under § 3 by importer, which shall become § 4. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Those Bulgarian citizens who are following the parliament's meeting know that before the break were discussed rules related to the elections that are coming and made in the Law on Exceptional Measures. They also know that the National Assembly Programme for this week does not introduce any changes to the Gambling Act. They are aware that, for years during this term, we have purposefully and purposefully opposed a practice that corrupts the entire legislative process, and it is to spend through transitional and final provisions things that have nothing to do with the original law. Specifically under the paragraph and by the name, because what we are looking at is not a final provision.. This is a proposal for a change in the Gambling Act. Can anyone explain to me: what is common between the vote of the quarantined persons, the health protocol when holding the elections or voting in the medical institutions and requests to issue a license to validate types and modifications of gaming equipment, jackpot systems, gaming software, central computer system, online betting system, communication equipment and so on? What do elections and gambling licenses have in common? I remind you that in August, the State Gambling Commission was closed due to huge scandals. Everything went to the NRA. There was a six-month period provided for by this majority controlling this government to do what was necessary for so-called pending proceedings. Here we are offered this deadline to be extended by law by another three months. Whether it is necessary or not, no one in this House can say, as the Law has not been discussed. Even if there were problems, they were long known. Why didn't they come in the normal order? [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u154	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u155	I can't understand after you changed the Penal Code with the Law on Shipping, since this thing became a national and supranational topic, inasmuch as it was noted as a bad practice by the European institutions, as what to consider this proposal? Is this a provocation against the opposition? A demonstration of impunity, of insolence, of what? Is it not clear that even if it is important and even if there is such a need to submit separately this bill, which is of one paragraph, can be considered relatively quickly but be able to see it?! How do we know now that you're not doing someone a favor, and that's right in the electoral rules, in those who need to be as clear as possible of doubts about any lobbying. You're probably trying to help the administration? Maybe you're trying to help someone who's waiting for a license? You can also try to continue this term for reasons that are unfit to say? No one can say, since there is no one word written reasons. Furthermore, be aware and know, ladies and gentlemen, that voting on this text and sending it to promulgation is unconstitutional for the simple reason that the Constitution clearly states: bills are adopted in two votes. We have repeatedly referred to the Constitutional Court on other occasions and with this argument. For now, the Constitutional Court refuses to become guardian of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure in this part of the Constitutional Court has its arguments. However, more and more voices are being heard in the special opinions of respected judges, who understand that this phenomenon has acquired huge dimensions of uncontrollable dimensions leading to legislative chaos a moment ago at the first point we spoke. It is not far-fetched to say: full legislative bacchanalia, which has a huge impact on the quality of the bills, on the sustainable legal framework. Withdraw this proposal, if it is really necessary, do it in the channel order, have the courage to protect it. Once again I say to you: we are here as opposition to not let anything like this go quietly. Be prepared to stand up in a debate about what you think is necessary. And one last word at a time. It's about deadlines again. Dozens of times change the terms of the laws and always this way, by the way. Think a little more before you put them in. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u156	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? I can't see. Do any of the importers have any regard for the matter? I can't see. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A thesis has been expressed in the debates so far, which unfortunately cannot be shared. It would be shared and it would be honest if the practice that followed the Bulgarian Socialist Party when it ruled was what we heard just now. Unfortunately, if you open all the bills adopted at the time when she managed or was in the ruling coalition of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, you will see that the transitional and final provisions are introduced and regulations adopted, which have nothing to do with the subject scope of the bill. So this practice... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u158	Mr. Mitev, I'm asking you to get to the point on the bill we're looking at at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u159	Dear Mr. President, you did not interrupt the previous one when he spoke precisely about the practice regarding the introduction of amendments to the Transitional and Final Regulations under laws that are not within the scope of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u160	He spoke precisely on the closing provisions. Specifically on the text, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u161	In particular, I can say that this is not any novelty to have a text in another law that is outside the scope of the subject matter. This text, which is proposed, is not unconstitutional. There is a permanent practice of the Constitutional Court on this matter. Despite all the attempts made on the left to change it, it has not changed. If you wanted such changes to take place, you should have accepted the proposal to convene a Grand National Assembly for the adoption of a new Constitution and then the Constitution could have made such changes, and then this practice could have been defined as unconstitutional. With regard to the specific provision. We are very sorry that there is a pandemic and a large number of NRA employees are ill. Under no circumstances am I acquittaling them, perhaps they should have hired additional people, perhaps they should have taken some other measures to deal with it. They didn't make it. There are objective reasons for this. We all see and there were sick MPs among us, someone broke up with their lives. Of course, you have the right to disagree, to ignore the objective fact of the pandemic, but, unfortunately, it is a fact anyway. Quite logically, in this case, the best solution is the extension of the deadline. Do we not then want every applicant who submitted the documents within the time limit to submit claims for compensation under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages? I don't think anyone wants to achieve that as an effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u162	Thank you. Are there lines? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mitev. I accept your challenge and commit to doing a very clear analysis in this campaign to see how many such bills have been adopted in this National Assembly against something else. I assure you, since we have already begun to do so, it is not in your favor. That one. Secondly, you don't have to change the Constitution. Our current Constitution says: laws are passed in two readings. Will the amendments to the Gambling Act, which you will vote here, be accepted in the duplicate? And the unconstitutionality that I'm talking about is not essentially the text of the term. He is putting other, no less severe issues that we would have discussed if there was a normal discussion, including the state of the NRA administration, about this specific type of proceedings and so on, but this is not about that. It is said that the Constitution tells you: one law is voted twice to become a law, and you will vote it once. I say to you, because the Rules of the National Assembly and now allow such proposals, which clearly go beyond the scope of those proposals, not to be put to consideration. This is where the committees are responsible, their chairmen and ultimately the majority. This is what the Constitutional Court, which has not essentially rejected our proposals and references for the fact that a text does not correspond to the initially adopted bill and is coming out of its scope. The Constitutional Court simply says: this is the work of the assembly itself. I hope he changes his practice. But even if he does not change this practice, what the new National Assembly has to do is make the rules in the Rules on this matter much clearer, as well as align the requirements for the bills imported by the Council of Ministers to those imported by MPs, including proposals with sufficient guarantees that they will not abuse them in this way with their constitutional right to submit laws. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u164	Thank you. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Mitev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, you may be surprised, but I would agree with a part of your speech. Yes, indeed, this practice, which exists, I do not know in whose favour it is or is to be harmed, I also consider it unacceptable in general. In principle, I find it unacceptable. Yes, there must be rules in the Rules. I would go further, I think there should be relevant constitutional provisions, not just those in the Rules, as to what can be tabled between first and second readings. It is a different interpretation as to whether the proposals between first and second readings are a law within the meaning of the constitutional provision that you have quoted that the laws are adopted in two readings. They are different because if the interpretations were not different, perhaps we would have had decisions of the Constitutional Court that would have satisfied the.... in this part and with these arguments which you have lodged and put before the court, your requests for unconstitutionality specifically on this basis. So, yes, in the future, there should and should be the development of such norms. Such changes need to be made with regard to the introduction of bills by Members of the National Assembly and the corresponding alignment of the requirements you are talking about. With regard to the bills imported by the Council of Ministers, I do not think that if you apply this mechanism automatically, you will get good results. Rather, you will limit, in violation of the Constitution, the initiative of the Members of the National Assembly. I would be very interested to see a draft bill that I have never seen before submitted by a Member of the National Assembly, where, for example, we have a table of compliance with European Union law when it is transposed or affected by rules that are included in a regulation or a European directive. If such amendments are made, they should be very careful so as not to violate the constitutional law on the legislative initiative of the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking the procedure in the manner of conduct. I usually make such a procedure to make a remark or to disagree with the way in which the sitting is conducted. I am now doing this procedure quite the opposite to congratulate you on how you dealt with the changes in the transitional and final provisions of the Emergency Act for changes in the Gambling Act. After Mr. Zarkov's speech, which was the only statement, you probably because you realize that it is neither normal nor the way in which these changes are being made through the Transitional and Final Provisions, and perhaps you yourself wanted one of the rulers, from the Bill importers to come out here and explain to the National Assembly what the reasons for these changes are. You have called on one of the government to stand up and explain to the National Assembly what these proposals are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u168	Did I do something wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u169	No, that's exactly what I want to say to you. I congratulate you on this approach. Unfortunately, none of the government heard you and responded to your call. I'm sorry for that, and congratulations accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u170	Thank you. For the second time in the National Assembly there is a procedure for admiration, for congratulations. Thank you. Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the title of the section, which has been redacted and becomes the final provisions. The Commission's version of the new § 3; and § 3, which becomes § 4 by importer. They voted 111 MPs: 81 against 28, abstention 2. The latest texts of the Bill have been adopted, with which we have concluded the Emergency Act. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The report from the Environment and Water Committee will introduce us to Mr. Matsurev. Please invite the Minister to take the place he is assigned to. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. At a regular meeting held on 21 January 2021, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister, Mrs. Slaveya Stoyanova, Deputy Minister, Mr. Daniel Iankov, Acting Director of the Department of Waste Management and Protection, Mr. Anton Peychev, State Expert, and Mr. Alexander Ivanov, Senior Expert in the same Directorate, Mr. Petyo Petkov, Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Law and representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and employers' and branch organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for it were presented by Deputy Minister Stoyanova. It clarified that the submitted draft was intended to introduce the requirements of the legislative package adopted at European Union level "Dumps' and, in particular, Directive (EU) 2018/851 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and partly transposing Directive (EU) 2018/850 amending Directive 1999/31/EC on the disposal of waste. The new provisions introduce the objectives of preparing for the reuse and recycling of municipal waste to 65 percent in 2035 and reducing to 10 percent of municipal waste deposited by 2035. Rules are laid down for the calculation of the targets based on the weight of municipal waste entering for recycling. The definitions for non-hazardous waste and waste shall be introduced. A set of measures by which manufacturers undertake to take financial and organisational responsibility for waste management as a stage in the life cycle of the product, including collection, sorting and treatment activities, shall be regulated. The bill introduces requirements for the clear definition of the roles of the individual interested parties in relation to the extended producer liability schemes, cost effectiveness, the determination of the contributions paid by producers, as well as systems for reporting and effective control of the activities of the schemes. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov, Yavor Bozhankov, Ivelina Vasileva, Dzhevdet Chakarov and Manol Genov. Opinions were expressed in favour of the Bill, stressing the need for transposition within the framework of the European requirements. The topics related to improving waste management systems, increasing the effectiveness of separate collection schemes and the implementation of effective economic instruments to motivate citizens' participation were discussed. Attention was paid to the challenges related to the provision of funding for municipalities and the need to maintain active dialogue with all stakeholders in order to achieve the increased objectives. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the branch organizations presented their opinions. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water unanimously with 19 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u172	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, would you like to introduce us to your report?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u173	♪ I can't believe under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 27 January 2021, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Environment and Water: Slaveya Stoyanova The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Stoyanova. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to transpose the amendments to Directive 2008/98/EC and Directive 1999/31/EC by Directive 2018/851/EU and Directive 2018/850/EU into Bulgarian legislation. The following major changes are introduced in European legislation to be implemented by all Member States: - The purpose of preparing for reuse and recycling of municipal waste is increased to 65% in 2035 in order to derive significant environmental, economic and social benefits and speed up the transition to a circular economy. - In order to further stimulate the transition to a circular economy, a target has been set to reduce up to 10% of municipal waste deposited by 2035, which can be postponed by 5 years, provided that the State has achieved a reduction of up to 25 percent. - In order to harmonise the results between Member States, the scope of possible methods for calculating the recycling target is significantly narrowed. - The definitions of a number of words and expressions are introduced in order to clarify the scope of waste activities. - A definition of an extended responsibility of the manufacturer is introduced to clarify that it is a set of measures by which manufacturers undertake to assume financial or financial and organisational responsibility for waste management as a stage of the product life cycle. - Requirements are laid down for clear definition of the roles of individual stakeholders, cost effectiveness, determination of the contributions paid by producers, transparency requirements, as well as reporting systems and effective control of the activities of the schemes. - A number of additional requirements have been introduced to take measures to promote the development, production and use of sustainable products, the prevention of waste. - In addition to the direct requirements of the Draft Law, editorials of the current law are proposed, which lay the legal basis for the introduction of extended responsibility for textile products as a way of fulfilling the requirement for separate collection of textile waste. New provisions are proposed in the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget. The MPs Petar Petrov and Dimitar Danchev raised questions about the precise timing in § 16 and the coordination of municipal plans with the strategy of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results: 17 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u174	Only one amendment where it writes........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u176	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. At a regular meeting held on 20 January 2021, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mrs. Slavea Stoyanova "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water." The meeting was attended by Mr. Daniel Iankov, Acting Director of the Department of Waste Management and Management, Mr. Anton Peychev in the position of State Expert, Mr. Alexander Ivanov in the position of Chief Expert in the same Directorate and Mr. Petyo Petkov in the Directorate General Legal Consult. The importers point out that the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act aims to introduce the requirements of the European Union-level legislative package in 2018 on waste and, in particular, Directive (EU) 2018/851 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and partly transposing Directive (EU) 2018/850 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 1999/31/EC on the deposit of waste. The reasons state that, in order to harmonise the results between Member States, the scope of possible methods of calculating the recycling target is significantly narrowed. Accurate rules are laid down for the calculation of the targets based on the weight of household waste entering for recycling and the point for measuring the carrying out of the recycling process is defined. The adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act is expected to harmonise national legislation with the requirements of the European Union in the field of waste management, to strengthen control over the activities of recovery organisations and individuals who fulfil their obligations individually, to limit the risks to the environment in waste treatment activities and others. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Chakarov, come in. Are there any other people out there?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u179	There, there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u180	Okay. Enough with the two of you in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u181	That's all you're looking at.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u182	That's where the coworkers are. You want me to look at you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the very beginning, I would like to say that this law is European integration, it solves the issue of the full transposition of European regulations and this is important for the implementation of our country's commitments. We have supported in the Commission the Law amending and supplementing the Law, which is European integration, and now we will support it, but at the same time we would like to make some considerations and notes on the amendments that are being made and the actual state of waste management in our country. It is good that other streams, namely clothes and shoes, are included in the widespread waste, but the major problems are whether the systems that will be created for their collection will be effective. And at the moment, there are clothes containers in large cities, but it is not obvious how this will happen in small towns, where much less clothes are thrown out, and are not interested in organizations, so an adequate solution must be found to this case. We heard at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment about the problems between organisations and municipalities, that once organisations meet their goals at national level, they lose interest in making efforts to separate waste collection at regional level, especially in small municipalities. This is another law which does not achieve real control over the behaviour of organisations, as well as the real mechanisms for impact on mayors in the context of being active in the direction of developing the separate collection systems and reducing the amount of depopulated waste, and hence the disposal fee, respectively the garbage charge for which all of us as citizens pay. In addition, I would add, if there was a real, effective, separate waste collection, then much more of the waste would not be aimed at landfills but directly for recycling. Unfortunately, here we have to point out the huge regression that there is in this regard to the destabilization of the system and the destructurisation in the period 2009 - 2013 but I am convinced that this needs to be overcome. The fact is that despite the reporting of an increased number of containers for separate waste collection in settlements, the targets are still being met. We must be correct from business, not at the expense of being beaten. The recent floods have once again put doubts about this real or paper fulfilling their plastic goals, because every great rain turns rivers into mobile dumps, mainly of plastic waste. In this respect, it is necessary for all of us to make the necessary efforts, both citizens and the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water, for greater efficient control over the disposal of plastic waste at unregulated sites. The other problem, which remains unresolved despite efforts, is the continued unregulated combustion of all waste, including tires. Despite the efforts, we see that with each seasonal tire change, the cities are buried by old tires, which the mayors are wondering how to drive and what to do with them. Once again, the issue of the waste deposit system remains, namely its introduction as an alternative to the product charges that we have in our country. There are also positive examples in this regard in a number of leading member states established within the European Union. Perhaps we should think about introducing, and not in this law, given the reduced time, but in general, because there must be some real incentives for the population to return packaging. Whether they will be paid or deducted from the price of purchased goods. Last but not least, the Commission has also raised the issue, which was particularly important during the climate crisis, namely what we do with the widespread waste generated by online trade, both by citizens and by companies. This is a serious matter and we cannot solve it with this law, given the short time we have now. However, it has to be decided because it is evident that online trade will develop in the future and not a small part of the widespread waste will be generated in this way, and for them there is no way to impose and implement the principles of the.................................................................................... and for the extended responsibility of the producer and importer............................................................................................................................................. More and more often municipalities and organisations will face the problem that they will have to deal with this type of waste in practice without having received funds for what is in violation of European rules. The notes we are making, we hope, will be taken into consideration, but Mr. Minister is concerned with him. He couldn't hear all our notes, so hopefully the Ministry... [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay spoke with the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u184	Mr. Atalay, please leave Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u185	Thank you for your attention and I hope that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u186	Don't disturb the order, Mr. Atalay, so I don't have to impose disciplinary measures on you. [[Laughter and lines.]] Is there a line on Mr. Chakarov's statement? I can't see. For the next speech, I give the floor to Mrs. Lurtova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! The European Union circular economy action plan adopted on 2 December 2015 sets out the framework of the European transition policy closer to the circular economy where the value of goods, materials and resources is maintained for as long as possible in the economy and the generation of waste is minimized. The main objective is to build a sustainable, low-carbon and competitive economy with an efficient use of resources at European Union level. The adoption of amendments to the Waste Management Act is required by the obligation to transpose amended European legislation. The affected and interested groups, on which the proposal will have an impact, are 265 municipalities in Bulgaria, which should take the necessary action to achieve the new higher targets for recycling municipal waste, as well as to introduce further mandatory separate collection of biowaste, hazardous waste from households and textile waste by 31 December 2024. As regards the implementation of the objectives of the stakeholders, the established regional associations are also 53 figures covering all municipalities and responsible for achieving the objectives at regional level. The need to achieve higher targets for recycling household waste in the medium and long term will lead to a reduction in municipal waste disposal costs for mixed household waste. Increasing the recycling targets for municipal waste and the requirements for expanding separate collection systems contribute to increasing the accessibility and quality of waste management services for citizens. This relates to both new waste streams for which separate collection is introduced and the need to increase the results of existing waste management systems. Reducing the amount of mixed household waste over time will also contribute to optimising and redirecting municipal management costs, which will bring benefits to citizens. The need to introduce measures to stimulate reuse and repair of goods as part of waste prevention measures will have an additional social, positive effect as it will expand the market for reuse, which has socio-economic added value. The overall increase in recycling targets in combination with measures to prevent the formation and limitation of disposal results in a combination of positive environmental effects associated with reducing pollution, reducing risks to individual environmental components and reducing climate impact. Groups concerned are also persons engaged in waste activities. The increase in the quantity and quality of recyclable raw materials of national origin due to the need to achieve higher quantitative targets and the extension of separate collection systems will reduce the need to import recyclable raw materials for Bulgarian recycling enterprises. There are 36 affected recovery organisations. The economic impacts are expressed in increasing competition between waste operators with which recovery organisations work. The need to achieve higher targets for municipal waste will lead to better cooperation with municipalities, as waste in systems contributes significantly to these objectives. This will increase separately the recyclable raw materials collected and from there will optimize the costs of the organizations and the revenues from their sale. There will also be persons who place on the market products that are around 10,000 legal entities. The general minimum requirements for extended producer liability schemes should allow to reduce costs and improve performance, as well as ensure uniform conditions of competition, including for small and medium-sized enterprises, non-governmental organisations in the field of the environment and in the field of social activities that can take part in information and work activities, initiatives with the public, waste prevention and reuse. In the long term, the need to increase recycling and limit the disposal of municipal waste will have a direct benefit for citizens, expressed in reducing the amount of waste charge. A specific interested party is the food producers and traders, as well as the dining establishments, in so far as essential requirements for the sustainable reduction of food waste are introduced. Member States should take measures in this direction, providing for the introduction of indicators to measure the reduction by the European Commission. With regard to footwear and textile products, interested parties are those who place them on the market and they are subject to additional requirements for entry into a public register. In order to make the economy truly circular, it is necessary to take additional measures for sustainable production and consumption by placing emphasis on the entire life cycle of products in such a way as to enable the preservation of resources and the closure of the circle. The GERB Parliamentary Group will support the amendment and the Appendix to the Waste Management Act because it is important for us to improve the management of waste in the Union and become sustainable material management in order to protect, preserve and improve the quality of the environment, to protect human health, to ensure the prudent, effective and rational use of natural resources, to promote the principles of the circular economy, to increase the use of renewable energy, to increase energy efficiency and to reduce the Union's dependence on imported resources, thereby providing new economic opportunities and long-term competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Lurtova. Are there any lines on the speech you heard? I can't see. Next statement Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We from BSP for Bulgaria will also support this bill at first reading, because the philosophy of the Law is covered by the European directives and with the requirements for quality life of Bulgarian citizens. What specifically do I want to say about this bill? First of all, he's extremely late. If you look at the deadlines of one paragraph, you will see certain percentages, certain measures to be implemented by 31 December 2020. This is enough argument for its late submission and its late examination in the National Assembly, because it should have long ago acted and achieved some of the objectives set out in this law. The introduction of new targets to increase landfilling and increase the amount of recycled waste currently requires extremely large additional investments in separating and composting plants. Since the commitments of the municipalities and the burden of fulfilling these deadlines fall precisely on them, very little, extremely limited are their financial capabilities, so that they can achieve the objectives set out in the Law. The main problem starts with separate waste collection. What's going on? We have several licensed utility organisations that make separate collection contracts with the designated municipalities, but the commitments of the Contracting Parties are not clearly scheduled. Mayors sometimes don't give a shit what happens, because they, as the people say, neither take nor give. Mr. Minister, in order to give permission to a useful organization to work, there are extremely difficult conditions that it must cover. Thus, the separate collection is the next monopoly in the country, which for years a number of governments cannot break down! And a while ago, a colleague spoke from the stands, and there would be competition. There will be competition when this monopoly is broken. Competition for a better service, competition for increasing the amount of recycling waste that we ultimately expect to become the raw base of the future circular economy. What other obstacles are there? Generally, the morphology of waste is not covered by national or regional waste is not covered, if any, by the structure of the waste in each individual municipality. Now we're going to want some community to achieve 65%. Well how will it achieve 65% for example of the amount of waste that is collected when the morphology and structure of their waste is below 50% recyclability! This is a condition that cannot be fulfilled! And I said in the Commission that it is necessary to deal with a lot of things in order to gain not so much importance and goals on paper, but to take into account the real possibilities of municipalities. We're talking about where the municipalities get the money. The same benefiting organisations collect the product fee, for example, from tyres. Citizens shall pay this fee to the benefiting organisations. After all, there are many signals from individual municipalities that the beneficiary organisations are refusing, and I stress once again that they are demanding to collect this kind of waste. They also refuse for expired medicines, refuse for oils, refuse for other hazardous waste. So here, Mr. Minister, you don't have time in this term, but I hope someone else takes such a responsibility to dig deep into the way these benefiting organizations work. I don't want to talk about it any further. It should also be considered the product fee that we are talking about. Citizen Hicks paid his product fee for the tires, the profiting organization took the money, and the mayor or the municipality should be responsible for these tires! A part of the product fee must be found where it can actually and effectively be used by municipalities for a certain type of activity, to be granted to the mayors. I said about the additional investments that are needed for separation, composting installations, for waste collection equipment. It was very proud to report to the Commission that, if you see, the benefiting organisations would put 10% more containers for separate collection. No, they have to put 100% more in certain places because somewhere these containers are not used at all. They are just fictitiously standing, in other places filled for a day or two, and there is no one to pass to pick them up. Sometimes the car that collects the glass takes the plastic and the motivation of the citizen to collect and discard it separately is lost because when he sees the container with the glass and the container with the paper throwing them into the same car, you know, everyone would think why this is happening?! His motivation to perform this activity and to take care of nature as a resident of this planet is lost to him. Finally, I would like to point out something else. We are talking about investments, we are talking about European money. And under the Operational Programme of the Environment, as of the other day, I consulted the implementation of the Axis of Waste is 36%! With this performance, Minister, we are creating real prerequisites for these objectives and deadlines that are set here not to be met because there is no way for the money to come for such activities to increase the goals that are set. The money will either come from a deposit fee under art. 64 of the Ordinance, or are waiting by the Operational Programme. Provided that some have not started procedures on this particular axis, they will implement their projects in three years, and after five years we are setting other targets and another percentage of waste collected! In the Commission, I have proposed that a working group should be set up to look at things once again. With the deadlines, it is clear that funny things should not be allowed to look at in January a bill that he set in December to carry out certain tasks and objectives. That's my offer. We cannot, in principle, not support this bill, but between first and second readings we will make relevant proposals under certain paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u190	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Bogdanov, come in. If you please, in general and in full, on the draft, not general reflections on junk.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u191	I thanked you for your appreciation for what I'm about to say in a moment. In line with your proposal, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, I would like to state the position of............................................................................. that we will support the proposed Draft amendment and supplement to the Waste Management Act. It is part of a comprehensive work of the present majority on introducing and regulating more precise and clear rules in this area, but since we do not specifically concern our own, Bulgarian proposals, but rather transpose European legislation and comply with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council in the field of waste management, I believe that what is currently happening and what we must adopt is largely not subject to comment and doubt. Recycling has no alternative. The fact is that waste disposal is gradually reduced in other European countries at the expense of recycling. You know there have been problems in our country over the years. What I would like to comment in particular is that for the first time, we are introducing a more precise and clear regulation of definitions that affect waste. So far it seems that this was one of the weak points in our waste management, namely that very often what was deposited or recycled did not correspond to the content. Often, the very meaning and essence of what is defined as waste were overlooked. Now, for the first time, we see such clearer definitions as non-hazardous waste, waste from bits, waste from biology, waste from construction, waste from food. All of this will give much greater completeness, accuracy and clarity what exactly will be stored and recycled and will lead to smaller opportunities for abuse, if you will, even in the direction of using some hazardous waste and destroying or recycling in uncontrolled ways and possibilities. You know that much of the waste represents raw materials, fuels, but so far, under the general definition of waste, we always question what is being used in this direction. It has not been a coincidence that the issue of what is called the end of waste has been discussed in the European Parliament for a long time. Such waste shall cease to be the same at the moment when it can already be used as a non-hazardous raw material or as any material that may be used as secondary material. That is why we support the proposed proposal, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Waste Management Act, and we believe that the recovery of non-hazardous waste materials can be extremely useful for both the economy and the circular economy, which is increasingly gaining strength and support. In general, this is the future of waste management on a European scale. Once again, I confirm the support of the United Patriarchs on this bill and, of course, we will insist that they be submitted for discussion at second reading and the other bills that are related to waste management and have already passed the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u192	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, No 102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The bill has been passed. Mr. Minister, your admiration and gratitude can be expressed from the stands. [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, in the order of the speeches, of the DPS for supporting, the political party GERB for supporting, the BSP for supporting, and the United patriots. I hope that new constructive proposals will be introduced between the two readings, which will be supported by everyone again. We will cooperate fully during the debate in the Commission and during the discussion of the proposal. Once again, thank you! [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We wish you a pleasant and fruitful work. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Permission procedure please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u195	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in plenary to allow the Deputy Minister of Energy Mr. Zhecho Stankov to be admitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u196	Thank you. We're voting admission to the House. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. I ask Mr. Stankov to take his assigned seat. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u197	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act No 002-01-74 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. At its regular meeting held on 20 January 2021, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Zhecho Stankov from the Ministry of Energy and Deputy Minister from the Agency for Sustainable and Energy Development Mr. Ivaylo Alexiev from Executive Director. On the part of the importer, the reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister Stankov. He pointed out that the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act was developed in connection with the transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/844 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018. In order to achieve a highly energy-efficient and decarbonized building fund, the Bill regulates the development of a long-term national strategy to support the renovation of the national fund from residential and non-residential buildings with the implementation horizon 2050. The strategy provides measures for the construction of new buildings and the transformation of existing buildings in buildings with close to zero energy consumption, improving the energy characteristics of residential and non-residential buildings and promoting the introduction of intelligent technologies in the building sector. The bill regulates the definition of the national energy efficiency target for 2030 by introducing a new energy savings obligation scheme to support its implementation, as well as alternative measures to ensure the achievement of a common cumulative energy savings target for final energy consumption for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2030. The difference between the overall cumulative objective and the projected energy savings from the application of alternative measures will be allocated as individual energy savings targets between the following debtors: 1. Final suppliers, suppliers of last resort, traders with a licence issued for the activity of the electricity market that sell electricity to end customers more than 20 GWh per year; 2. Heat undertakings and heat suppliers that sell heat to final customers more than 20 GWh per year; 3. Final suppliers and natural gas traders selling to final customers more than one million cubic metres per year; 4. Liquid fuel traders selling more than 500 tonnes of liquid fuels per year to final customers; 5. Solid fuel traders selling to end customers more than 13 thousand. tonnes of solid fuels per year. A new point in determining the scope of the debtors is the inclusion of liquid fuel traders for transport purposes which have been excluded from the obligation scheme for the period 2014-2020. The scope of the current mode of inspection of heating and air conditioning systems and the inclusion of combined heating and ventilation systems is extended. There is a requirement for public service buildings in operation with a built-up area of more than 250 sq. m with heating installations or combined heating and ventilation systems with useful rated capacity for heating or cooling of spaces above 290 kW shall be equipped with building automation and control systems, where technically feasible and economically appropriate. In connection with an official Notice of infringement No 2018/2338 by the Directorate-General for the European Commission on the implementation of various provisions of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency, the provision of the Energy Efficiency Act relating to the implementation of the individual annual objectives of the debtors under art. 14, para. 4 of the Energy Efficiency Act (Art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3), stating that the reporting of energy savings may include saved amounts of energy achieved within the obligation period, i.e. after the introduction of the obligation scheme until 31 December 2020. The provision of art. 57, para. 9 of the Energy Efficiency Act excluding from the scope of mandatory energy efficiency audits undertakings carrying out production, transmission, distribution and supply of energy. Changes to the Energy Act are envisaged in order to introduce requirements for reporting the consumption of heat, cooling and heat for domestic hot water and natural gas, as well as a requirement for remote reporting of private distribution appliances installed after 25 October 2020. The presentation of information on invoicing and natural gas consumption to consumers is regulated. The implementation of the new requirements introduced by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act will lead to an increase in the competitiveness of the economy, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and an improvement in citizens' living standards. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov expressed his position on the lack of assessment of the impact of the proposed Draft on the state budget, and this is necessary because the implementation of the energy efficiency targets set for state structures is not realistic to be implemented only through European funding. Also, National Representative Tasco Ermenkov pointed out that it is necessary to consider a higher threshold of criteria for debtors for liquid fuel traders that sell to end customers to avoid loading on small gas stations. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for the Energy Efficiency Act, No 002-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Efficiency Act, No 002-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are aware that Bulgaria is currently in a penal procedure because it has not timely transposed the relevant European directives into its legislation. This is the reason why we will only abstain from adopting this law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. We are, in fact, once again witnessing the adoption of laws in the field of energy and energy efficiency in a situation of lack of strategy. The famous Strategy for Sustainable and Energy Development, which should have set the goals, the guidelines for energy development, including energy efficiency, the way we will achieve them, is still unknown where, is not clear and has not been adopted, and it should have been adopted already. You know, the previous strategy expired 2020. However, this is the general remark. Our main concerns in the amendment and the Supplement to the Energy Efficiency Act are that once again the state in the face of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria accepts its role in energy efficiency measures only as their regulation, their formation in laws and the introduction of obligations to all those related to the use of energy, starting with energy traders, is passed through consumers, and it comes to the ordinary citizen. The country itself as an obligation and the way it will fulfill them is gone. Six hundred are the institutions of state and local authorities who need to take measures for energy efficiency. Unfortunately, however, nowhere in the Bill does it say how they will be obliged to do what they will do. Note that if consumers and obliged persons are subject to energy efficiency measures, there are penalties provided for that they do not fulfil their obligations, there is none for state institutions. It is written that in the very partial impact assessment written by the Ministry of Energy, the negative economic impacts on the requirement for financial resources by consumers are indicated in the introduction of remote reporting of private distribution devices. It is also recorded as a negative trend and the determination of alternative measures is difficult, this leads to higher individual targets for the debtors and therefore the need for additional investments. In order to make it clear, the alternative measures are those measures taken by the State in its plans, in its actions, and financed to implement energy efficiency measures. What it fails to fulfil until the indicative objective to be achieved is distributed among the so-called debtors. The less the state is over, the more the debtors have to do. According to the Bill that we have here, the state will hardly do anything unless it benefits some money from the European funds. However, all measures must be achieved by the debtors. You do realize that with this approach, there's no way to talk about energy efficiency? I can give you an example of alternative measures that could, for example, find a place in this bill as a definition. Not to say that the measures for the replacement of equity instruments will be at the expense of the owner, but to say that the State as an alternative measure will make a programme for their phased replacement with the funds provided by the State. A perfectly normal measure that can be an alternative. We have examples of these from the activities of the Energy Efficiency Agency, now the Sustainable and Energy Development Agency, since 2008 and 2009, when funds were provided under a state programme for audits of public buildings and small and medium-sized enterprises, thanks to which European funds were then used for these enterprises and for these public buildings. So these things could be reflected in the Amendment and Supplement Act, and we will, of course, make our respective proposals between first and second readings with an attempt to still make the state have any commitments, implement some energy efficiency measures and at least 5% of the building fund to be renewable every year, which, by the way, is also an obligation under the Directive. One more thing, and this bill is not passed by a lobbyist member, in which unwarranted with nothing but such interests I say lobbyist one more time, the volume of fuel traded from petrol stations is reduced 12 times as criteria for a debtor who will contribute nothing to energy efficiency, but is an attempt to settle relations between large and small gas stations, private interests during the adoption of such a law. Once again, we will abstain. We will abstain and make our proposals between first and second readings so as to make it clear that the State, in addition to regulating energy efficiency activities, undertakes and takes measures itself to implement such measures and finance them. Otherwise, the conclusion that this bill has no impact on the state budget actually condemns energy efficiency to failure. This cannot be a normal policy if we want to be in line with what is coming to Bulgaria with regard to decarbonisation and with regard to improving the state of energy efficiency in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines on the speech? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to make a procedural proposal, if there are any other speakers, I suppose there will not be much, but just in case we extend the time until the Law is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u202	Thank you. Is there a counteroffer? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Nikolov's procedural proposal to extend the working hours of the parliamentary day until the adoption of the bill. Vote 76 MPs: 74 against 2, no abstentions. The procedural proposal has been accepted. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be as brief as possible. The Energy Efficiency Act should have been transposed last year, but due to the many remarks, difficulties in terms of transposition of the directive have entered this year. Some of the dates concern last year, some dates start from 1 January 2021, but this is not a big problem. In fact, this law creates the framework and the way in which part of our economy, seeking to be zero by 2050, gives ways. First, it lists the persons obliged under this law, the ways and objectives to be set according to the intermediate stages and the final stages by 2050, and therefore what needs to be done in terms of energy efficiency so as to achieve these objectives. The obliged persons must be consulted each year. The Minister of Energy must give them. The objective is each year to save 8% of final energy consumption as a whole and by 2030 respectively. There are three stages: up to 2022, 2024 and 2030, a total of 8% of final energy consumption. Accordingly, individuals are those who consume oil, heat, those who transport electricity, supply electricity to consumers, traders of electricity and so on, and so on, to these individuals, and each one must form about 1% of what delivers over 20 gigawatts for those who have electricity annually and so on. That's stated in the Law not to say it. In general, the experience we have had so far with the debtors for whom the period 2020 ended is quite unpleasant. Since we are from the countries which allocate the obligation to save savings that are under Directive "between the State and between those debtors I am talking about, the State has fulfilled its obligations. Accordingly, it is trying to structure, to tell the debtors what they should do, but it did not give the financial mechanisms for this, and these persons could not fulfil their 2020 obligation. Thank God, there will be no punishments from the European Commission because we entered somewhere in the middle of the period for the previous period. But now I am sure that this will not happen, that is, at some point the state will have to pay the corresponding fines if the obligations are not met and the state will therefore seek them from the debtors. Financial mechanisms. We've already created a mechanism. There are other mechanisms that have been developed, but I think we still need to think about it so that we can encourage these obliged persons to use different options. Of course, they must have some return on whether through ECCO contracts, whether otherwise, but they must encourage consumers to move towards energy efficiency and therefore fit them in their goals. First, the indicative, then the final goals to be achieved. Of course, it is quite a burden and it takes a person obliged to have imagination in order to be able to look for options to achieve these goals. However, on the other hand, these are opportunities that are given to business, to these debtors, to end-users precisely to benefit and enter the new era that the European Union and the European Commission provide us with for a circular economy, for an emissionless, for zero energy consumption of housing, which will be up to 2050 and this is a great challenge. Imagine that new homes should now be zero energy consumption, that is, they should be with all modern ways of construction and heating, respectively, of lighting, of supply of energy, will now be completely interchangeable with new, renewable sources, with very new heating technologies and so on. All these things need to be done as quickly as possible. This knocks on the door and if we are not ready, these goals become cumulative and at some point in the end we will not be able to fulfil them if we wait for the last term. This is why I wanted to say most of all that we should look for the tools to encourage all these companies. Since so far we are talking about electricity, there has been a regulated market, this regulated market has been dominated, cross-subsidisation has been, and therefore consumers have not had the need to invest in such new technologies saving technologies or renewables to reduce their consumption, because really energy has been bearable, I cannot say cheap but bearable and this has encouraged us. Now that we have taken out non-bit consumers, I can tell you that there is a very high demand for investing in such technologies, for reducing consumption and for using renewable sources for own consumption accordingly. I can quote large chains of stores that started investing in this, but I'm not going to advertise them. This gave rise to more business sense and thought, so you have to save such energy. That's exactly what needs to be done with a campaign. I even hope the Ministry of Energy is an active participant. Of course, and we, who accordingly make these laws for them, but we must make the tools. With one of the instruments that we adopted in the Energy Act, we allow the Electricity System Security Fund to have a mechanism to enter into a contract with credit institutions, a framework agreement on which it will pay the interest rates on such loans and these credits to go precisely for energy efficiency, respectively renewable sources that go for own consumption. This is one of the financial mechanisms that can encourage precisely such investments. Of course, the funds that are about to enter both for development and respectively the Smooth Transition Fund can also be used, but all this must promote the creativity of every business entity and not only physically, but also the creativity of the obliged persons to encourage their users to invest in this thing. We also know that Mr. Ermenkov has said many times that a lev invested in energy efficiency is returning much faster and more than investing in anything. So there are really exciting days ahead and we need to look for a solution and encourage everyone who will invest. I think the Law is good as a direction, of course, it transposes the directive. Of course, some things can be corrected between first and second readings, but this enables the management of energy in closed systems, respectively, I speak in housing, in residential buildings, in state and municipal buildings. The replacement of commercial appliances and remote distribution devices will allow for monthly invoices, i.e. accounting documents to be received. There will be no equalization accounts. It will be easy to catch people who abuse or steal energy against their neighbours, and this will give consumers greater confidence in service providers, respectively. By 2027, the replacement of these distribution appliances must be made, and not only the commercial appliances, and consequently all service providers, water operators, hot water operators, must be subject to monthly reporting, respectively, without finally countervailing accounts at the end of any energy year, whether it is heat or electricity. So I wanted to emphasise precisely this.. of the opportunities given by the Energy Efficiency Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u204	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines on the speech? I can't see. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of course, I do not see a political formation that will not support the amendment and the supplement in the Energy Efficiency Act. I listened very carefully to Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Nikolov. They have basically described exactly what affects the amendment and the supplement, but I would still like to emphasise some details that should be addressed by now and from now on by the Ministry of Energy to pay very serious attention. Dear colleagues, the main thing is that it must be done so that the use of energy in the final supplier, in the final consumer, is reduced by reducing the energy used, reducing primary energy for the production of electricity from heat plants, from RES and so on. This is something that we are trying so far, because we have not been able to transpose even the last directive, brings us to the thought, as if energy efficiency remains a little far away, we do not pay enough attention to energy efficiency. And even more so, GERB in their management have made so that a lot of money has been spent, especially for renovation of the buildings, but in the end we do not have any report, an analysis based on these invested funds, based on this renovation how much energy has been saved at the end supplier, at the end customer and how many capacities are needed to be able to close down, or for one reason or another to switch to the production of energy from other capacities? Therefore, fellow Members, the question arises... now with this law we are setting out the possibility of financing energy efficiency projects, starting with the end user, until it comes to the producers, what have we done and why will the change of these commercial appliances currently be at the expense of the customer? Do you know why? Because when we sanitized the buildings, we made a mistake, we didn't create the opportunity to put the vertical bars or the input of the energy use and the commercial appliance on the front door of the client. Therefore, if now the vertical pipes for obtaining heat, for obtaining gas, for receiving electricity were at the customer's entrance, the commercial apparatus would be owned by Electricity, owned by Heat Efficiency, and we would not be dealing with other additional appliances that are not commercial. We will support this bill, but the gaps that you have made, fellow Members, we should take them into account from now on and not allow them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-28.u206	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 002-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. They voted 83 MPs: 71, none, abstention 12. The bill has been passed. I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports for tomorrow, Friday, 29 January 2021: 1. The Minister of Transport Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Kristian Vigenin. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Tsvetan Topchiev. 3. Interior Minister Hristo Terziyski will answer a question from the MP Ivan Valentinov. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Tishev; Georgi Alexandrov and Christian Mitev; Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; and a question from the National Representative Manol Genov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Procedure adjourned replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MP Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Valentina Naydenova - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of two questions from the MPs Smilyana Niva and Irena Anastasova, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Desislav Taskov; and Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on two issues from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Environment and Lead Emil Dimitrov on two questions from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov. Due to the placing under epidemic quarantine regime of the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev, the questions asked to him, which the deadline for response falls within the quarantine period, will be provided by Minister Ananiev immediately after the expiry of this period. That's why I'm adjourning the parliamentary session. The next meeting is tomorrow.. 29 January 2021, in the Chamber of the National Assembly. [[PHONE RINGING]]
