ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Good afternoon, Madam Secretary. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, first item of the day, is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY CODE. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021 The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report will introduce us to Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u2	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 13 January 2021 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code with an importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Kalina Petkova On behalf of the importer Council of Ministers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov. At the beginning of the presentation he stressed that the Bill was drawn up for three years and at the cost of many efforts and compromises from all the countries involved in the development came to its adoption in the Council of Ministers. The main objective of the Bill is to arrange for the payment phase of pension supplements from the so-called second pillar. The overall settlement of the payout phase by the universal pension funds is imperative, and given that the first pensioners are expected in 2021, when part of the women born in 1960 will become the one defined in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Insurance Code, retirement age. The first more significant groups of pensioners from the universal pension funds are expected after 2024, when the men born in 1960 will be the legal retirement age. In this regard, the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code offers the necessary changes. An obligation shall be established for pension insurance companies when applying for retirement to acquaint the persons insured by an additional compulsory pension fund with their rights and the rights of their successors in relation to the acquired pension right and the right to receive the one-off or deferred accrued funds on the individual account. The Bill proposes, together with the life-saving pensions envisaged and at present, to regulate in more detail the deferred payment as a pension product eligible in the payout phase. This will enable a higher percentage of insured persons to receive a longer-term pension payment corresponding to their personal life needs and to the amount of funds accumulated prior to retirement in their individual accounts. The Bill regulates the three types of pension products that will be paid by the universal pension funds, the life-saving pension for old age, the deferred payment of the funds on the individual account and the one-off payment in cases where the accumulated funds are insufficient to allocate those two types of pension products. The basic rules for granting, paying and recalculating pensions, the rights of heirs of the insured rights shall be laid down. It is explicitly provided that the additional amount of the supplementary life pension for old age and the deferred payment cannot be less than those obtained on the basis of gross social contributions for which an additional reserve is created. The changes allow persons who reach retirement age from 2022 to 2025 including to be able to exercise the right to choose insurance up to one year before that age. This period shall be increased smoothly until 2038 when provision will be able to be changed no later than five years before retirement age. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that the proposed changes aim at protecting the interests of insured persons and pensioners in universal pension funds and raising their awareness by: - detailed regulation of the types of pension products that will offer pension insurance companies that manage universal pension funds (advanced life pension for old age, one-off or deferred payment), the conditions for their receipt, the way to determine their size, as well as the possibilities for subsequent update and recalculation; - detailed regulation of the rights of heirs of insured persons and pensioners; - the introduction of provisions on the basis of which, in the case of the amount of funds accrued at the date of granting of the pension, less than the amount of the gross amount of the contributions transferred to the insured person, the means of the individual account shall be supplemented to that amount by part of the reserve specifically created and the pension shall be determined on the basis of the completed funds; - the creation of an opportunity for the insured person to receive, upon request of the pension insurance company managing the universal pension fund in which it is insured, information on the amount of the accumulated funds on its individual account, information on the types of pension products offered by the company and to which the insured person is entitled and information on their estimated amount; - creating an opportunity for individuals to obtain information on the types of pension products from any other pension insurance company managing a universal pension fund. In addition, a reference to the compliance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code on Social Security with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The opinion of the Ministry of Justice through the Directorate-General of the Republic of Bulgaria before the European Court of Human Rights is that the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Insurance Institute, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies and Protocol No 27 of the meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 7 December 2020. All opinions are supported by the Bill. The Commission's opinion on financial supervision is excluded, making concrete proposals to change the bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Violeta Jeleva and Hassan Ademov. In principle, the MPs believe that the Bill will bring calmness, clarity and predictability, especially for several thousand women who will start to retire in September 2021. The bill is also a reasonable solution for future pensioners, the work of pensioners and the universal and professional funds they manage. Opinions were also made that the Bill was late, was submitted at the last moment before the expiry of the National Assembly's term of office. The hasty drafting of the Bill can lead to errors and omissions which could lead to the misleading of insured persons and inequalities in terms of the size of pensions, their succession and their updates. Snezana Malakova from NSI, Diana Yordanova from the Financial Supervision Commission and Daniela Petkova from the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies took part in the discussion. Mrs. Diana Yordanova presented a synthesized set of proposals that the Financial Supervision Commission would like to make between the two readings of the Law in order to improve and develop its philosophy and specify the work of pension companies and pension funds. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results of 10 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The Budget and Finance Committee? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. At a meeting held on 14 January 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The aim of the Bill is to create a complete and non-controversial regulation of the payout phase by the RFF, which would facilitate the informed choice of persons subject to additional compulsory pension insurance. In this regard, the Bill includes provisions which regulate the choice of insurance under art. 4b of the Social Security Code. In 2015, it was created an opportunity for those who do not wish to be provided in the PFF to choose to change their insurance from the PFF only to the Pension Fund. In order to exercise that right, however, it is necessary for them to have accurate information on the types of pension products offered by pensioners, the determination of their amounts, the conditions for the succession of the funds accumulated on individual accounts and the pensions allocated and so on. Issues governed by this bill. A change in the period within which persons can exercise the right to choose insurance is proposed. Other changes have been made aimed at protecting the interests of the insured persons. The project introduces additional higher requirements for pension insurance companies with regard to their financial stability. It is proposed, together with the life-saving pensions envisaged and at present, to regulate in more detail the deferred payment as a pension product eligible in the payout phase. The Bill also provides for changes related to the determination of the amount of the additional lifelong retirement pension for old age. The rights of heirs shall be regulated in the signed pension contract depending on the characteristics of the pensioner's chosen pension product. Mrs. Diana Yordanova took part in the discussion. She expressed principle support for the Bill. She clarified that it does not provide for payment of pensions from the PFF, but only from the PFF, and that the legislative framework of other hypotheses needs to be developed. Ms. Daniela Petkova Mr. Zhelyazkov of AICB said that the Association supports the Bill, but should not delay its adoption. Mr. Rumen Gechev also expressed his opinion, who said that he firmly stood behind the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission on the Bill. Mr. Yordan Tsonev expressed a major objection that the Financial Supervision Commission also introduced a very difficult regulation. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova summarized the issues raised so and proposed that the Committee on the Draft should organise a working group with all stakeholders to examine all the proposals received, including the Financial Supervision Commission, and assess which ones to support. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 11 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I am opening the debates on the proposed bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to stress at the outset that we are currently discussing at first reading the Bill, which concerns 17 billion. 400 million. BGN on which the stability of the financial system depends, on the one hand, and on the other, depends the future of pensioners and their pensions. For this reason, we are fully perplexed as to why the government's practice is continuing to introduce draft laws for 18 billion. lv. In the last few seconds before the election. What are the facts and the first group of problems? Dear colleagues, the Draft Law entered the Committee on Budget and Finance that afternoon and yesterday was seen in the Commission. The Financial Supervision Commission offers us motives and new texts of almost 35 pages, provided that the law itself is 24 pages. It is about complex formulas, it is about the calculation of dividends of public limited companies, it is about compensation of pensioners, it is about prices of financial instruments, it is about currency and left-wing risks, and this decision had to be taken in a few hours. It is amazing that the decision of 18 billion. lv. is taken where the Budget Financial Commission is secondary and the leading committee is the Social Committee. It is good that it is not allocated to the Commission for Youth and Sports, because there they would best respond to these formulas. Note that on 5 January, Tuesday, the Council of Ministers submitted the draft, which was approved in the National Assembly on the same day, and on Monday, 11 January, the President of the National Assembly distributed it to the two committees, on 13 January afternoon was distributed to the members of the committees and on 14 January was voted. It is very interesting how they deal with this project in the Council of Ministers. I bothered to see the calendar on 30 October the Ministry of Labour submitted the project to the administration of the Council of Ministers. As you're suggesting, it's already Friday afternoon. Immediately the administration of the Council of Ministers publishes an extensive analysis of how beautiful this project is. When? Well, Tuesday morning, November 3rd.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u7	The bill, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u8	So this 18 billion bill. lv. is put to fire at the National Assembly on January 11th of this year and in two days there is something that should have been discussed for months. Dear colleagues, the main institution, which provides guarantees at the moment for these almost 18 billion. BGN is the State Regulatory Authority - the Financial Supervision Commission. The Financial Supervision Commission essentially rejects this project proposed by a working group, as it says, submitted to the Council of Ministers, and is now being submitted to parliament. Thirty-four pages are the explanations of the new texts and this is essentially a new law proposed by the Financial Supervision Commission. A number of other questions arise here. For example, the Ministry of Finance writes to us that Directive 2016/2341 of the European Union is about the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. I quote, honourable Members: The specific texts are prepared by the Financial Supervision Commission and not to say: lies, misleads the National Assembly. If the texts were prepared by the Financial Supervision Commission, submitted to the Council of Ministers, why does the Financial Supervision Commission write a new law of 35 pages? Who's lying? Is the Minister of Finance fooling us or is the Financial Supervision Commission fooling us?! Someone's fooling the National Assembly! Of these texts that we are talking about, I will quote you as facts only a few texts from the Financial Supervision Commission. Here's what they also write on the first page: The Bill provides that the types of pensions, the risks covered and the way to determine the amount of payments are regulated in the Fund's Rules, i.e. by means of this. Article 16 143, para. 2 is allowed to be designated by pension insurance companies instead of settling a set of specific pension products in the Social Security Code. The regulation of pension products only gives flexibility in the rules, but also hides risks related to endangering the interests of consumers and consumers are pensioners. Therefore, in the reasons of the Financial Supervision Commission, we are told from the beginning that the draft law submitted by the government is lobbyist that it protects only the interests of private pension funds and does not protect the interests of the Bulgarian pensioners who have worked for decades to receive an additional pension. Besides, on page nine, t. 21 writes: "To restrict or prohibit the free disposal of the company's assets for additional social security or an additional social security fund managed by it, or a payment fund when the requirements of the company's capital, own funds or reserves have been violated, or those funds. "I mean, the Financial Supervision Commission tells you that with this draft law submitted by the Council of Ministers, in which they are supposed to have participated as a main institution, they are actually granted unlawful rights to dispose of the private pension funds' assets. So, including honourable Members, in the formulas for calculating compensation for pensioners who are almost three pages of pensioners who explain how these updates and compensations are to be calculated in such a way as to balance the interests of both pension funds and future pensioners, this is not done in the main project. Ladies and gentlemen, from this point of view, the question arises: now, at first reading, what will we approve of the project submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, or will we validate the Commission's draft regulation? Which Project are we going to defend today? Now we will be offered: let us vote on this project, and between first and second reading we will fix the contradictions. This is not about contradictions, this is about different approaches and different approaches to balancing interests between society and private pension funds. Of course, we have to say that conditions must be created for the normal functioning of pension funds, because they are not social organisations, but market structures that have to work for profit. The question is: when they make such a profit, how will this profit be distributed and in whose interest? Honourable Members, we have very serious doubts that this working group has worked very closely..................................... with private pension funds, because we are not the opposition, but the Financial Supervision Commission tells you that the interests of future pensioners are not protected, that the interests of private pension funds are protected only. In addition, as regards pension funds, it became clear in the Commission yesterday that pension funds have shareholders from Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria. Yesterday they understand that there are new formulas and practically a new law that they have not seen said their representative. In fact, the Financial Supervision Commission is proposing new texts, a new law which has not been seen by private pension funds. Well, they said they needed time to review these formulas, to see how their interest was protected, and they were obliged to consult with their investors in the country and abroad, something that was not done. In a word: on Monday, an 18 billion bill is cast in parliament, and today we are waiting for us to beat the rubber seal and we are taking responsibility for the fact that the most important institution, the CFF, rejects the draft law, has not been involved in the draft law obviously, but is proposing a new draft law. No, we're not gonna beat that rubber stamp! We are opposed to defending the interests of only one party, and the interests of all parties involved must be balanced. We suggest that you withdraw this law, complete it, understand the two institutions, the Council of Ministers and the Financial Supervision Commission, not force us to beat the rubber stamp and assume responsibilities. That is to say, to offer us a draft law that is really coherent and not for the minister to say one thing, the Financial Supervision Commission to say another and to ask us to support what texts we do not know. We will vote abstention and abstention against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines on Mr. Gechev's statement? I can't see. Would you like to hear from Mr. Ademov or Mr. Gokov? It's only right to alternate groups. Mr. Gokov, come in, you were second in line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, perhaps it was a good idea to take turns in the groups, because now we have only one opinion, but whatever. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The bill was submitted to the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021 and I cannot start there. It is explained to us that the urgent adoption of the Law is a necessary condition for the payment of this money to begin, as the first entitled ones will acquire their right in September this year, and this requires its adoption to be done in the fastest way before the elections. Surely that is true, but we are not told why there has been a delay of 20 years when the three-stole model's legal framework was adopted. In particular, it is logical for the second pillar that the attention of the legislator was focused on the period of accumulation of funds, the so-called first phase of defined pension schemes, such as universal, occupational pension funds. The part of the legal framework concerning the period of payment of these allowances to the pensions, the so-called second phase, has not been settled in full and the payment remains incomplete, contradictory and unjustly defined, and it has been 18 years. While in the previous governments, this postponement of the legal settlement of the payment is partly justified, it is unacceptable for the latter government that the people who were legally obliged to provide themselves in the second pillar of private pension funds in 2002 were unaware of how access to their own money accumulated in these funds would be ensured. One perhaps most important question for them is: how much will their basic pension be reduced, which they need to receive from the NSI and whether two pensions will be greater than one and another thousand, thousands of questions? Those questions had no answers until today. It is not clear whether they also receive an answer with this bill and if they have answers to what extent they will be fair. The first pillar of state social security is built on a cost-coated solidarity principle. With the contributions of the workers are paid pensions of the current pensioners, and pension is subject to numerous political decisions, with the rules over time and the change of policies in the pension system changing and the pension can remain unexpectedly different. An example of this is the same so-called 2002 pension reform that doomed pensioners who had previously acquired pension rights to miserable pensions. The second pillar of the supplementary compulsory pension insurance is built on a capital principle. The funds of each insured person shall be accumulated on its individual account on the basis of which its pension is calculated. Here it is completely lacking the solidarity element and although we call the second pillar money a second pension, they are not really a pension, but an addition to it. The problems with the second pillar as a whole were at stake with the creation of the three-strength model. Instead of providing the second pension pillar to begin with the start of the insured person's insurance internship, it was proposed for people in the middle of their insurance service after 31 December 1959. This was a mistake because it was clear to everyone that the individual accounts of the insured persons would reach their full capacity when they completed the entire normal duration of the pension insurance period, which is of the order of 35 years. It's only been 18 years now, which is half. This is already a prerequisite for complicating the payment of the supplementary pensions of the second pillar, not so much of the repayment itself, but of the fairness of the reduction of the basic pension of the first pillar, i.e. how much it should be reduced for people who have been provided at different periods only in public insurance. The reduction currently in the Social Security Code is 20%, and according to shareholder estimates it should be about 6 7 per cent in order not to damage the first pensioners. The people who worked before 2002 were insured for a pension only in the NSI, with other amounts of insurance contributions. For example, the reform found an amount of insurance contributions for workers working under the third category of work, 35.7% of the gross wage received to reach today 19.8%, of which 5% are for private professional funds. It is not to be overlooked that the reform started with 2% for private pension funds. We cannot ignore the fact that the first pillar of the State pension from the NSI is financed every year by the budget with about half of the necessary funds, which are collected by everyone in the form of taxes, fees, excise duties and so on, and the second pillar of the NSI. In the introduction of the current pension model, superlatives for the second pillar were outlined and unimpeded promises were made that formed unrealistic expectations in the insured persons. Now that the bill amending the Social Security Code, which governs the second phase, is a fact, it is clear that most of the promises have been misleading to the insured persons, especially that the model will ensure both lifelong payment of pensions and inheritance. The proposals set out in it are not new, even some of them are offered back in time and are not accepted. Let us not forget that there is a working group on the 2016 issue, which in July 2018 presented a consensus and agreement between experts and social partners on all issues about the second pension payment phase, but a bill was never reached because of the government. Much of the ideas set out then are also in the current bill. It is now claimed that it has achieved a good balance and that all social partners have supported it, but their opinions show that not all proposals are supported without reservation. I will not deny that what has been done so far is better than what exists in the Law and better than the uncertainty and ambiguity that exists, but we need to consider whether this is a fair answer to people's expectations. And that's a whole other question. I find it positive in the project, for example, the increased capital requirements of the companies, the guarantees for the payment of the supplementary pension to an amount not less than the gross amount of the contributions, although the guarantee could have been extended to the gross amount of the contributions with the reported amount of inflation from the time of their submission until the amount of the supplement was fixed. It is also worth criticising here that this guarantee does not extend to those who continue to pursue their employment after they have been granted the supplement in retirement. Good are the proposals that create special funds for the payment of pension products, such as the Guarantee Fund, which will ensure payment up to the amount of gross contributions. It is positive that it is envisaged to update the supplementary pension and also the application of biometric tables to determine the life expectancy. This, however, seems to be the things that, along with understanding that we have reached a point where the phase of payment of pensions from the second pillar is imperative to be settled six months before the payment of the first entitled, make me understand the importers, but not to accept the way, the procedures in which they are trying to impose their acceptance. Not only do I think that the purpose of supplementary pension insurance in universal professional funds is to pay a certain amount to supplement the pension of the first pillar, and that is, until the persons receive the last one, i.e. for the rest of their lives. And the Bill makes all sorts of proposals that provide for and allow private pension funds to decide and offer more complex formulas for the payment of the second pension, giving way from the original purpose of the second pillar. Once we have obliged Bulgarian citizens to be provided in the second pillar, they must receive an additional lifelong pension under equal conditions, such as the lifelong one and the inherited one after the completion of the insurance. There's one more thing I'd like to comment on. The fact that gender is not allowed to be taken into account as an actuarial factor is, of course, acceptable from the point of view of gender equality and non-discrimination by gender, but for me it is not clear how this will happen, how will it be ensured? According to experts, when applying the rule on gender equality, women would in practice receive about a third greater pension than they are due, and men, respectively, would receive one third less than expected. This, on the one hand, is definitely unfair, and on the other, will probably cause justified discontent. I fear there will also be discontent among the first pensioners because of the few funds accumulated for explainable reasons in their individual accounts and the resulting low additional pensions from the second pillar. The Bill also does not address the issue of providing complete and timely information about their pension. The information of the insured person must be legally guaranteed for the types of life pensions that apply pension insurance companies and for the amount of the estimated pension add-on in order to enable that person to make an informed choice of whether to remain in a private fund or return to state social security. I am not going to talk here about the Commission's proposals for financial supervision, because in practice, in the opinion proposed at the last moment, a new philosophy has been written in the payment of the second pension. Everything that has been said so far and some other things that we have discussed in the parliamentary group have led us to abstain from support in the first vote on this bill. In the second vote, it is not clear to me whether it is necessary for us of the opposition, any proposals under the bill, since my parliamentary practice, however modest it may be, shows that the government does not comply with our proposals, however good they may be. I ask you to take into account the Commission's proposals for financial supervision and between the first and second votes to make a better option as far as possible at the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. It's an extension of the group's time. Dear colleagues, put on your masks. There are people who stay out of masks for a long time. Are there any lines on Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u12	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! A draft amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code is presented at our attention for discussion and voting. This project has a three-year history that is extremely strange, and I would like to mention just a few stages of this conciliation procedure within the working groups. There are several working groups in these three years who eventually came to the preparation of a consensus project which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers. I mean, these working groups include experts from the family of Professor Neno Pavlov, Professor Christov, Professor Shopov, Associate Professor Biser Petkov. These are people who understand the matter of pension insurance and, more specifically, capital schemes. So the argument that only pension insurance companies have prepared the proposed bill is untenable. Firstly, I would like to point out that this is not about 18 billion in this problem, because 18 billion is contributions to private pension funds. These are the net assets of companies, not the money we are currently discussing in this bill. It is also about 3 835 778 Bulgarian citizens who have lots in the second pillar. So when we talk about all these things, we need to be aware of what the procedure was until it came to this draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. This project, except through working groups, is agreed in the framework of inter-agency discussions, inter-agency coordinations. You know that there is an opportunity for inter-departmental coordination "The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers give such an opportunity, and within this public discussion, note that the Financial Supervision Commission and the Association of Companies are included as stakeholders for further...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u13	Please be quiet! Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u14	Why am I saying this? Because all these proposals for the Financial Supervision Commission, which are now being offered to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly, are being discussed within these working groups. Only editorial notes were accepted. Many of them have been rejected and have no place in the Project submitted by the Council of Ministers. This is the delicacy of the situation at the moment, because at some point it turns out that the Financial Supervision Commission, which is a state regulatory authority, is against the draft submitted by the Council of Ministers, because the Commission's proposals completely change the philosophy of the project tabled by the Council of Ministers. And in order to find a place in the proposed project, we need to change philosophy, we need to change the logical link between the different texts in the draft Council of Ministers. And that is why I believe that by respecting the work of colleagues from the Financial Supervision Commission, they have tried all these years to try to impose these proposals of theirs, which are for greater capital adequacy, for greater reserves, they could find a place in a building project. Because now it is about regulating a market in which the insured have imported insurance contributions within 20 years. The regulation for a 20-year accumulation period is one thing, the accumulation regulation for 40 years could be as proposed by the Financial Supervision Commission. Because offering 2% of the net assets of pension insurance companies as a reserve means a new coordination procedure, because private pension funds are the ones that have foreign shareholders, and all of this needs to be agreed. This will not happen within the few days that remain until the end of this term. And now with regard to the fact that this project was dealt with at the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. As said in the "Twelve to twelve." Why, since this project was prepared several years before that, why, after it was agreed, why, this project, which is measure 128, priority 9 of a stable pension reform, does that mean that at the last moment, the managers must protect the stability of the pension system in Why has this project not been considered enough time for the Members of the National Assembly to possibly comply with the Commission's proposals for financial supervision? It's obvious there's been a communication breach. These issues had to be resolved before the project entered the National Assembly. Of course, the National Assembly can submit proposals between first and second readings, but they cannot change the philosophy of the bills adopted at first reading. And this is the dilemma and drama of this bill, if I may say so. Next, it is very important to know what the preliminary scope of the draft Social Security Code submitted by the Council of Ministers is. The task is because at the beginning of the 2002 reform, the idea was to arrange for a more detailed accumulation phase, not the payout phase, which remained for a further stage. And now the scope of this bill is to settle the payout phase of one of the main things by guaranteeing, naturally, the rights of insured persons, with a guarantee for pensioners who will receive their first pensions, and these are in 2021 women born 1960. And once again, I repeat, so that we can talk about capital adequacy in order to be able to talk about guarantees, we need to be aware that this capital adequacy and these guarantees need to be relevant to the accumulation period. And this period of accumulation of the first category is 20 years, even less than 20 years. And something very important that somehow avoids this discussion. Dear colleagues, the capital adequacy and guarantees in the Council of Ministers project are entirely on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, agreed with the Financial Supervision Commission. This is a letter that is also now in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, submitted by the then Minister of Finance. So now, at a subsequent stage, to challenge capital adequacy, to challenge higher-size guarantees, means that we have never done our job properly. This is our argument to abstain from supporting this bill, which otherwise enables the first cohort of pensioners to receive their pensions. That's the delicacy of the whole story right now. Can adjustments be made between first and second readings? They can, however, but the philosophy of the submitted bill will be radically changed if these parameters that I am talking about change. Can, as the Financial Supervision Commission says, these schemes and formulas for calculating the amount of pension find a place in the Law? It is said that this gives greater predictability, greater sustainability. When we talk about formulas for calculating the amount of pensions, we also mean biometric tables, we also mean a technical factor. All these parameters are time variables. They cannot be fixed in the Law. Therefore, the draft Council of Ministers is intended to find a place in a regulation that can be more flexible and make more correct and correct decisions. Notice again on a proposal from the Financial Supervision Commission after private pension funds propose to the Financial Supervision Commission and it approves or does not approve all these parameters. I mean, they don't belong in the Law. And there is no way that this thing is going into the Law, as my colleagues from the Financial Supervision Commission have suggested. But it is not the most important thing that the Financial Supervision Commission proposes. I am convinced that their motives are well-intentioned and they want in some way to strengthen, in the same way as insurance schemes.. note the guarantees and statutory capital. See, in the proposed project, the statutory capital of private pension companies is raised by 50% of 5 million. BGN, as before, 7.5 million. lv. Of course, there are other guarantees that will come up a little further if I have time. Next, I am not convinced that there is someone in the National Assembly who opposes capital adequacy, regulations to meet the requirement for stability, the requirement for protection and guarantees of the rights of pensioners and insured persons. However, the question is, should this be done now, or should it be done at a later stage? This is the most important issue, and if it were to be resolved between the first and second votes, things would look a little different. Look, the Commission's proposal for financial supervision is to increase net assets by 2%. At the beginning of one of the Commission's proposals for financial supervision was 4%. Two per cent of the net assets of a pension insurance company, i.e. all the funds that manage this pension company, that is a new factual reality that must be adjusted but also agreed in a different way, and there is no time for that. And a few words now about the pension reserves. Honourable Members, a reserve is set up to ensure the payment of life pensions, a reserve is created to ensure minimum yield, a reserve is created to guarantee the gross amount of the pension, a reserve is created to guarantee gross amounts. I would like to stress fatly that none of the insured persons, the future pensioners, will lose a penny of the net assets of the contributions made to the National Revenue Agency or the National Insurance Institute. That is, the money that is accumulated in the individual lot of one person, regardless of what the yield is, will be obtained as a minimum amount. The minimum amount of the pension is guaranteed by these funds. Of course, there are also funds to pay the life pension, there are funds to pay the deferred pensions and so on. These are all possible guarantees. It is said that the update of pensions from the second pillar should be similar to the first pillar. Dear colleagues, there is a huge difference between the first pillar and capital schemes. In the first pillar, you can bet an update or update with a certain percentage, in our case under the Swiss rule, but when we talk about capital schemes, when we talk about profitability, when we talk about a completely different regulation regime, you can't assign a certain percentage, like the one in the solidarity pillar. So what is offered is 50% of the yield, when it comes to deferred payment, to be one time the update within the year. There's a possibility, of course, of recalculations. When it comes to funds with a lifelong pension payment, then the update occurs with the difference between 50% of the yield and the technical interest rate. And this is always in the interest of the insured persons. Next, I would like to say a few words about the pension products that are being offered, because this is one of the important things in this bill. The insured pensioner, when he reaches the standard age of the first pension pillar, has the right to conclude a pension contract on the basis of information from pension insurance companies on how much funds are in their individual accounts, what is the yield, what is the possibility of receiving and canceling these funds in individual accounts, what is the possibility and is there such a possibility of inheriting? Of course, the Law provides for the possibility of succession in the appropriate order. In other words, pension products are: An additional lifelong retirement pension for old age, as is the legal term. Such an old-age pension can only be obtained if the amount of funds in the individual account is more than 15% of the minimum retirement and age pension at the time of the pension award. If we assume now that the minimum pension is 300 BGN, as in the current legislation, 15% are at least 45 BGN. However, a life pension may be a pension with a guaranteed payment period, payment of some of the funds and other funds may be deferred in the appropriate order. Last but not least is the second option for a deferred payment. A deferred payment shall be where the funds in the nominal accounts of the insured persons are more than the three-fold amount of the minimum retirement and age pension. Notice the.Securities products are selected by the insured persons on the basis of information. And the last product is a one-off payment of the funds on the individual lot. Where they are less than three times the amount of funds accumulated on individual accounts, or in this case less than 900 BGN, they shall be entitled to one-off payment. Of course, there are very solid arguments against this pension product because the logic and meaning of pension insurance are lost. The logic of the second pension pillar is to supplement the funds received from the first pension pillar. At the beginning of the pension reform, of course, with other estimates and other assumptions, including the contribution to pension funds, the idea was from the first pillar, from the second and third additional pillar to receive a substitute income of more than 70%. Of course, in 20 years of insurance, there's no way that's gonna happen. This could happen further in time when we are approaching the 40-year period. Before I finish, I would like to say a few words why, in my opinion, this draft of amendments to the Social Security Code, which deals with very important issues, the issue of the repayment phase, the issue of the capital adequacy of the companies for supplementary pension insurance and regulations and guarantees, is being submitted at the last minute? I have an answer to this question: because the discussion on this issue causes the incasing of negative political effects; because instead of explaining to future pensioners why they should receive this amount that is different from their expectations, we have hidden the Bill and are importing it at the last possible moment so that somehow this discussion can be left behind and pensioners can be surprised and dissatisfied by what is happening at a later stage. I am convinced, however, that the proposed bill protects the interests of the insured persons. A fragile balance has been found between the interests of private pension funds and insured persons. Of course, every single bill can be improved, and I am sure that this bill, possibly on the basis, as it is said in the Bill, of an analysis of what happened in those years, by 31 December 2025, is to make changes that could include the proposals of colleagues from the Financial Supervision Commission. I hope that this bill will still be adopted by the end of this term, because it is not clear by September, if this bill is not adopted, what will happen and whether the interests of the Bulgarian pensioners will be harmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines on Mr. Ademov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Popovski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u16	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support this bill for several things. First of all, the bill is timely. Indeed, at the end of the government, we already have yesterday's date for the elections - April 4th, but no one can predict when there will be a next legitimate government, and there will be in some near future, it has the opportunity by September 1st to make possible changes to this bill. This law is necessary. You know the debate started 20 years ago. In 2002, the collection of the amounts of working citizens in Bulgaria, born after 1960, began for the second pension fund. This is important because there are already over 17 billion. BGN collected in these funds. And when the men on the second fund start to retire, there will be more than 20 billion. lv. by very crude calculations. This fund is different from the other pension, not dominated by the state. We know that we have been reading the previous three years of the mandate around 4 billion. lv. in the budget of state social security, for the next year, we are doing more than 6 billion. lv. That is to say, we are a serious social state that is still saving money from other sectoral policies in order to bring it into social activity by more than 6 billion. lv. next year's dotation. Indeed, this bill was borrowed 20 years ago by many other countries that did so on time. And when this money is collected after years and there is not one working in Bulgaria that does not pay, because now there is still some percentage of the workers who do not pay on this fund, not a single lev because they were born before 1 January 1960, there are still such people, especially in men. Women begin on 1 September this year to receive funds from this second pension fund. However, let's say that a right-wing government in those years made the Currency Board because, if there wasn't this Currency Board and the rate of leva to euro, to the dollar in those years, if there were other inflations and inflation problems in those 20 years, what would have happened now when these people have accumulated some money, but they as equivalent to the currency are worth nothing. So here, however, great dissonances in payment cannot become, people have a choice and this is a good start in 1 September 2021, when the first women born 1960 will be entitled to receive money from this pension fund. For a second reading, I also said in the Commission, not to repeat that we would also accept reasonable proposals from the opposition, if there are those for a second reading that are useful for voting on this bill in its overall form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u17	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. Is there a line on the speech? I don't see anyone who wants to. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To our attention today is a long-awaited bill as a result of long-term work with social partners and all interested parties "The National Insurance Institute, the Financial Supervision Commission, pension insurance companies, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy." In the course of the working group, as well as the public discussion, there are topics on which no agreement has actually been reached, which is why there are different opinions, but achieving a reasonable consensus is only possible as a result of mutual concessions from all participants. The aim, the philosophy of the Bill, is to create full and clear regulation of the payment phase by universal pension funds, which would facilitate the informed choice of persons subject to additional compulsory pension insurance. This bill deals with important issues that concern persons provided in a universal pension fund. The first pensioners of the universal pension funds are expected in September 2021, when some of the women born in 1960 will become the ones defined in art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Insurance Code, retirement age. In this regard, the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code proposes the necessary changes to ensure clear rules for granting a pension from universal pension funds and detailed adjustment of the payment phase. In 2015, a legal opportunity was created for persons who do not wish to be provided in a universal pension fund to choose to change their insurance from a universal pension fund only in the Fund "Pensions" no later than five years before their age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code and if they are not granted an insurance pension and age. This creates uncertainty and inaccuracies in insured persons to make their choice, as the period until retirement is further away. Therefore, the current bill proposes changing the period within which individuals can exercise the right to choose insurance. Thus, the first groups of insured persons are guaranteed a longer period to familiarize themselves with legal changes. An opportunity is also created for them to make a more accurate assessment of the amount of their future pensions depending on the accumulated funds on individual accounts. The changes allow persons who reach retirement age from 2022 to 2025, including, to be able to exercise this right of choice of insurance up to one year before retirement age. This period shall be increased smoothly until 2038 when provision will be able to be changed no later than five years before retirement age. An analog change in the Bill is made regarding the right to resume the provision by the Fund. Let me remind you that, with the State Social Security Budget Act 2021, we adopted a change in the Social Security Code, which enables persons who have failed to change their provision from a universal pension fund in the Fund of the State Social Security Pensions, five years before the retirement age, to do so from 1 January to 30 June 2021. The Bill offers an equivalent opportunity during the same period of 1 January to 30 June 2021, and for persons who have failed to resume their insurance in a universal pension fund. An obligation shall be established for pension insurance companies when applying for retirement to acquaint the persons insured by an additional compulsory pension fund with their rights and the rights of their successors in relation to the acquired pension right and the right to receive the one-off or deferred accumulated on the individual account. I would like to draw attention to some important aspects set out in the Bill which aim to protect the interests of insured persons and pensioners in the universal pension funds and increase their awareness, because this is precisely the main objective and philosophy of the Bill that we are currently looking at. First of all, the Bill provides for detailed regulation of the types of pension products that will offer pension companies managing the universal pension funds, namely an additional life pension for old age, one-off or deferred payment, the condition for their receipt, the method of determining their size, and the possibility of subsequent update and recalculation. Next, the rights of heirs of insured persons and pensioners are detailed. Provisions shall be introduced on the basis of which, at the amount of the funds accumulated at the date of granting of the pension less than the amount of the gross amount of the contributions provided for for the insured person transferred by the NRA and the NSI in the universal pension funds, the amounts of the individual account to be supplemented to that amount by part of the specifically created reserve and the pension shall be determined on the basis of additional funds. Next, it is possible for the insured person to receive upon request from the pension insurance company managing the universal pension fund in which it is provided, information on the amount of the accumulated funds on its individual account, information on the types of information products offered by the company to the insured person and the right to information on their estimated amount. An opportunity shall be created for persons to obtain information on the types of pension products from any other pension insurance company. Finally, I would like to say that the Bill guarantees the rights and interests of insured persons, pensioners and their heirs and, most importantly, their awareness so that they can make the right informed choice. These groups of individuals will be aware of their rights, which is a prerequisite for their timely exercise in an option that is most favourable to them. The adoption of clear rules for the allocation of pensions from universal pension funds and the determination, recalculation and updating of their amounts, the establishment of a detailed regulation of the payment phase of universal pension funds will increase citizens' confidence in additional compulsory pension insurance and their awareness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Is there anyone who wants to speak? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, congratulations, Madam Minister, that you have gathered the courage to come here to plenary because, as you can see, you are left alone. Politicians and MPs from GERB, apart from the speech of Svetlana Angelova, which in no way contributed to the debate, solve the problems. Because, colleagues, for the second pillar it is necessary to have the necessary trust. Isn't that right, Minister? That's what we're all fighting for. With this bill, do you increase confidence in the second pillar? No! Because this law was prepared two years ago and two years ago I had to take the necessary steps with the Financial Supervision Commission. Why does the Financial Supervision Commission, colleagues, have such a huge report? Because there are doubts about the functioning of these funds and, God forbid, that must be clear, and I declare it from the stand that something will happen one day to the Financial Supervision Commission to say: but wait, here is our report, you MEPs are the ones who did not accept the proposals. Is that right? That's right! Because when it comes to strengthening the guarantees of statutory capital, tell me what, fellow Members, we should think it's happening to these funds? It would be nice to have the finance minister here, because I remember a parliament when Minister Goranov had an idea which GERB or, rather, outside, did not accept it, and perhaps would have solved absolutely all the problems at the moment. However, for one year you have been silent, you have not put this bill because of external contributions to Parliament's agenda. Now you come here with this bill that you say will almost solve the problems, on the contrary, it will deepen them. And that shows the way you rule. You don't have a single problem to find a sustainable solution on, so in a month or two we don't change the laws. You work a piece and you don't want to solve problems permanently, and people have given their money, people want to have stability. However, in the way you act, you do not support this stability and the increase of trust in pension funds. The blame will not only be yours.. entirely of GERB and the Patriots, but, unfortunately, it will also be of the entire parliament, because, de facto, in these proposals of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is the regulatory authority that is best aware of the financial situation of pension companies and which tells you to change the philosophy in order to have stability, you give up and you remain the problem not to be solved again. Unfortunately, this is the management of the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. The problems are swept away, the problems are not solved, and the consequences are for the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u21	Under Rules of First Reading, the Bill shall be dealt with in principle and in full. I remind the speakers. Are there any lines on the speech? Are there lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u22	Then don't comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u23	I am not commenting, I am merely reading you the regulations that you must follow! Are there any lines on the speech of the MP Stoinev? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u24	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! This law lays down the way in which insured persons in private pension funds will have access to their personal funds in their individual accounts. It is clear to everyone that these texts or, in principle, the regulation of this payment must happen in order to be able to start the payment of the so-called second pensions. Only let's follow the process, because it's important. A concept was proposed for the payment of the second pensions in 2018 by then Minister Biser Petkov. In 2019 a bill was proposed and it is discussed at a wide round table. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u25	Colleagues, I request silence and order in the court! There's a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u26	Then he's suspended. Why? There is a suggestion that precisely because of this law, from 2018 until today, the procedure for its discussion has not started. Now, shortly before this cabinet term is completed, you want us to accept it for a few days without much of what people are going to have for a wider discussion. There are several issues that have been discussed before me by colleagues. One of them is that somehow suddenly, after all these years of work, you all talk about three years of work, and the regulator is involved, and he says today that there are problems. Why is that stated today? Why does he say today that the payment and update of the second pensions are not well regulated? This does not happen in the Law, but through some flexible forms, but we do not know what they will be. Another point is that there is not enough regulation on how the inheritance will be, is not mentioned, and this is a very important issue because the list under the Heritage Act needs to be completed. Now people have many questions: how will the inheritance of the second pensions take place in the future? The other which many talk about is the debate rather shifted around what the yield will be, what funds the pensioners will receive, which should receive from the private funds. And especially for the fees and the salaries that those who manage such funds receive. What's going on? Let the pension funds manage well through investment, our funds, but a good management is accompanied by very high fees, administrative costs, maintenance, wages. These fees are collected by us from our personal resources. I won't forget a pensioner who wanted to consult me about what he said: he is not crazy, he who eats the pie, but he who gives it. Because the fees, ladies and gentlemen, are being collected by us. We are giving the money for the big rewards to those who manage the funds. I repeat that these fees are very often higher than they are generally in the pension funds in force in the European Union. I want to mention something because I said about the long trial of this law. The last correct solution in this direction is that these fees have decreased. I would like to point out that this happened in 2015 on a proposal from Mrs Cornelia Ninova. There was then a temporary committee to investigate the activities of pension funds. Since then, nothing, nothing in this direction! Why is this happening? Because you're playing a double game. Now, we will calmly allow private funds to earn nothing bad, but then we will do so that with additional conditions this money may be used because there is a big hole, a deficit in the NSI. The other question that comes from this, because we said that there are deadlines in which we can transfer our accounts and receive a state pension only from the NSI. Some schedules are being set up. One will be able one year, the other two years before retirement to transfer their funds. I ask myself, why is this being done? Why should there even be a limit to being able to transfer these funds? For the first time since I have been a Member of the National Assembly, all opinions are almost identical and one is the main thing they mention is that there should be no restriction on the right to transfer our personal accounts to the NSI. Why do you want to absorb these funds? So you propose that this happen without having an informed choice or five years before retirement. Then we won't know what we have. I use this tribune because several times it has been said that this project will create peace for the pensioners. No, you won't. There's a lot of questions. And I call on you to make an informed choice before choosing whether to transfer your funds to the NSI. Find out exactly what you will receive from the second pension and how much from the NSI and then make this choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Any lines on the speech? I don't see anyone who wants to. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Klisurska, come in. [[Loud noise.]] Please be quiet in the hall, especially from the right section. Mrs. Daritkova, put order in your parliamentary group, if you please, especially there, at the bottom, they did not stop talking! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u28	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the moment of our attention is the consideration of a key issue that affects all insured persons and all those on whom retirement is due and will receive pensions from the second pension pillar this year. To my great amazement, as my fellow Members have said before me: why is this bill, which was ready a year and a half ago, coming into discussion right now, in the last days.. at the end of this National Assembly? Even more perplexing is the reaction of the Financial Supervision Commission, which is a state regulatory authority with regard to the proposals that have been made. The strangest of all is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. It is surprising to me, honourable representatives of the government, why no one has taken into account the opinions of the C.F.R. and the Ministry of Finance. Allow me with one sentence to stress what the Ministry of Finance says about the submitted bill: these proposals, which will be put to the first vote today, will not give the necessary clarity to the Bulgarian citizens, but many questions that remain open. The adequacy, competence is evidently lacking in this bill, because it had to be a long time ago... was actually prepared a year and a half ago. What does the Ministry of Finance say? This bill governs the provision of guarantees for the fulfilment of the commitments made by pensioners and obligations towards persons, but the specific texts are prepared by the Financial Supervision Commission! Allow me with one sentence to say what the Financial Supervision Commission says. It provides only changes concerning the payment of pensions from universal pension funds! We all know that in 2000, when supplementary pension insurance was introduced, several types of pension funds were also introduced. So this bill is completely incomplete. And I ask the question: why? A number of questions are raised by the C.F.R.S. and with regard to the greater capital adequacy and the greater reserves that these pension insurance companies have to secure. Again with the proposed bill, there is no answer to this question. As soon as the pension reform started, we all knew that this would be an opportunity for an additional lifelong pension. Unfortunately, with this bill, an additional lifelong pension for the first cohorts will most likely not happen from what we see in the Bill. [[Reply from the hall.]] Why didn't we create guarantees and protections for the Bulgarian pensioners...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u29	Finish up, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u30	It will not happen because the Code of Social Security has not been legally secured. So this is the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u31	Finish up, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u32	...and our parliamentary group, which will abstain because at the moment the questions are much more than the answers, and the adequacy and clarity of the Bulgarian citizens do not exist in any way in the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u33	Thank you. Are there lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other speeches? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I didn't mean to speak, but I can't ignore statements that are completely false. You cannot expect a person who has provided only 18 years and not in full service to a standard worker or employee who lasts at least 40 years to receive a lifelong pension. Moreover, many of these individuals, who are now the first to receive a pension from the so-called second pillar, from the additional compulsory pension insurance, unfortunately, were granted a minimum income. There is no system in the world in which this happens, especially with regard to the second pillar, where you know that there are individual lots and the cost-covering model of the first pillar is not used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u35	Mr. Mitev, there are individual lots for 20,000. lv.!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to the speech of MP Mitev? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any other speeches? Mrs. Sacheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address the criticisms that have been made with regard to the Bill. As it became clear from the speech of most MPs, this bill has been prepared since 2017, with representatives of both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Insurance Institute, the National Revenue Agency, the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies, the CST, the KT Support, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. Three years has been preparing this bill, so there's no talking about it being rushed in at the last minute. As a result of the discussions, a balance and compromise has been reached between the interests of all participants and the competent institutions, pension insurance companies and social partners. Round tables were held at which this bill was discussed in advance. Before its submission to the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, all regulatory requirements regarding consistency with the institutions concerned are met. I would also like to remind you that there is a decision of the National Assembly in connection with a debate on questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Zheleva, Milko Nedyalkov, Nadia Klisurska and Polina Shishkova to me as Minister of Labour and Social Policy and with this decision the National Assembly has entrusted the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to take the necessary action to develop a draft amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code, which will regulate the payment phase, and the deadline for submitting this bill was 31 December 2020. With regard to the Commission's proposals for financial supervision, which were submitted for the first time in the framework of the conciliation procedure, there was no way to start a new coordination and public discussion, as it was necessary to respect the deadline for submission to the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that § 42 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill provides for an opportunity to carry out an evaluation of the proposed products by 31 December 2025 and any necessary changes to the arrangements can be made by then. It has already been repeatedly stressed that the first women to retire should be able to do so since 1 September this year and they cannot be deprived of this right for procedural reasons. The interests of pensioners are fully guaranteed and, on the one hand, their pensions are determined by the gross amount of contributions and, on the other hand, they can transfer their funds of their choice to the NSI and vice versa. With this project and with the regulations already adopted, we can clearly say that two pensions are more than one. With regard to the proposal for a change in relation to the informed choice of persons, the bill has been published, as I have already said, for public consultation. In the existing regulations on the right to information of insured persons and on the state of the funds on their individual accounts in universal pension funds, others are added, while the insured person is entitled to free information on the accumulated funds on his individual account, on the income from their management and on the pension rights arising from the raised resources at least once within a calendar year in a manner and order laid down in the rules of the pension insurance company concerned. In addition to the electronic services provided by pension insurance companies, there are opportunities for constant awareness of individual accounts of persons, as well as of electronic calculators, for the calculation of the expected amount of pension that the insured person would receive in retirement, or when betting certain assumptions on pension parameters. As regards the settlement of the succession, in accordance with the proposed new pension products, the provisions governing the rights of the heirs of the insured person or pensioner shall also be refined. In the event of the death of a pensioner of a universal or professional fund who receives a lifelong pension from the universal pension fund with rights to receive from the heirs, the rights of the heirs shall be laid down in the rules governing the organisation of the activities of the fund. The person who receives a term pension or deferred payment from a professional pension fund shall be paid to the heirs once or later the balance of funds on his individual account. The person receiving a deferred payment from the deferred payment fund shall be paid to the heirs once or later the remainder of the funds transferred to the deferred payment fund. With regard to the update of the supplementary life pension for old age and the deferred payment shall be regulated in a new provision. 169e. The supplementary life pension for old age and deferred payment shall also be updated at least once a year and their guaranteed amounts shall not change. We believe that the principles of public social security cannot be transferred directly to the capital pillar of the pension system and it is necessary to ensure flexibility in compliance with certain rules and guarantees for the rights of insured persons. This is secured and guaranteed by this bill. Once again, I stress that this bill has found the necessary balance and compromise between all the institutions concerned. The Commission's proposals on financial supervision, a significant part of them, may be laid down in a legislative framework of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Once again, I pay attention to the MPs putting on their masks. Mr. Bojankov, take an example from your exemplary neighbor Mr. Mirchev, and put on your mask. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2021. Vote 168 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 63. The bill has been passed. Thank you, Minister Sacheva. Enjoy your work. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 18 December 2020 to 14 January 2021 I won't. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on twenty-two questions from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to five questions from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of four questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of a question by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva of a question by the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Vladislav Nikolov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Tourism Minister Mariana Nikolova on two issues from the MP Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Danka Zidarova Lurtova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question from the National Representative Kalin Velov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of a question by the MPs Nadia Klisurska Zhekova and Anna Slavova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of a question by the MPs Anna Slavova, Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to a question by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Krum Zarkov, Hristo Prodanov, Manol Genov, Filip Popov, Todor Baychev, Smilyana Nivva, Kolyo Milev, Nikolay Tsonkov, Rumen Georgiev, Donka Simeonova, Dimitar Georgiev, Zhelyo Boychev, Atanas Kostadinov and the remaining large group of MPs; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question by the MPs Polina Shishkova and Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov of a question by the MPs Anna Slavova and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova. We begin with the questions to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the first question is from the MP Dora Yankova about the state of the road network in Smolyan municipality. Mrs. Yankova, you're welcome to state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to wish you and your families a good year. Madam Minister, my question is about the state of the road network in Smolyan Municipality. Big mountain community in the heart of the Rhodopes. Historically, several rural municipalities are connected, which further, without financial resources, aggravate the maintenance of the road network. Along with that there are really all kinds of roads without highways, second category, third, fourth, natural, forest and other roads for agricultural needs. My question is: the citizens of Smolyan appreciate what is being done under the operational programmes, along the current construction of the Krichim road, but they want to hear, at the beginning of the year we are, the perspective, what is at stake and how do you evaluate the road network? Along with this there is a serious problem, the worst problem of Smolyan Municipality, the road Smolyan "Mugla," which is 26 km from Smolyan's bus station, 36 km from Devin as a connection, 15 km from the prison dorm, where it can be said to be the end of Smolyan's regulation. The very time, in the last 10 years, hasn't been supported. In the previous eight years, when I held responsibility for Smolyan, we built 23 support walls, supported it with asphalt, but without the necessary financial resources to build it, because in the municipality we had a project, a large project, with larger gauges, for about 20 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u40	Get it over with, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u41	..., we had talks with the mayor of Devin to make intercommunal cooperation, but then the money under the Operational Programme was little in the first planning period, and the policy that can be realized with municipal roads, if it had to be with its own funds, it means the two mandates of Smolyan, the own funds collected from taxes, to go only for this time. I mean...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u42	Mrs. Yankova, get it over with! You're one minute out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u43	It's a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u44	How do you ask? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u45	Since my question is raised in this way, I am ending it. Please inform us of the state of the road network and can the state support the construction of this road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u46	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The length of the road network on the territory of Smolyan municipality is 438 km, of which 181 km are Republican and 257 km municipal roads. In accordance with art. 19th para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the Roads Act, the Republican Road Network is managed by the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipal Road Infrastructure Agency by the mayor of the municipality concerned, in the case of the Municipality of Smolyan. On the territory of Smolyan municipality the Republican roads are 11 pieces, one second class, and the remaining 10 are third class. In accordance with the 2019 Annual Report, which the Agency is preparing for the National Statistical Institute, their condition is as follows: In good condition are 82 km, in an average of 33.8 km and in poor condition are 59 km. Every year, the Road Infrastructure Agency has commissioned renovation and maintenance activities for Republican roads in the area, and over the years a number of projects have been implemented, both with state budget funds and with European funding. In 2020 ended the rehabilitation of 27.2 km from road III 866 Smolyan "Shiroka Laka" Stoyka, this is Lot 24 passing through the territory of Smolyan municipality, total value of 27.9 million, funded by Operational Program "Regions in growth 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u48	It was Mugla, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u49	...at 21,000 square feet. m. As of now, in preparation... Mr. Chairman, two parts is the question. One is for Mugla, the other is for the overall state of the road network in Smolyan municipality. At present other sites from the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality are in preparation and recent realization. On the ongoing repair and maintenance of road III-863 in Sokolovtsi, Momchilovtsi, Slaveno, Petkovo, Malka Arda, Banite, Stoyanovo and permanent strengthening of a landslide and demolition process affecting Republican road II-86. According to the Roads Act, you know that municipalities have obligations to maintain and repair municipal roads and with a decision of the Council of Ministers on the territory of Smolyan municipality 51 municipal roads have been established. In good condition are 8.4 km, satisfactory.. 17, unsatisfactory.. 56 km, and in bad.. 175 km. With regard to your second question of completion and rehabilitation of the municipal road Smolyan, I inform you that detailed information could be obtained from the municipality of Smolyan, and there has been no request for the specific road artery in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In addition, I inform you that under the Interdepartmental Commission on Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers in 2018, the municipality was provided with funds of 600 thousand. lv. for the restoration of the municipal road Smolyan "Mugla..."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u50	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u51	...from km 1 to km 3 and municipalities send their demands directly to the Interdepartmental Commission, so the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is irrelevant and there is no information about any of these for this municipal road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u52	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, clearly from the question that you have developed as an answer, more than 50% of both the state and the municipal network is in poor condition. The Smolyan municipality is only on wheels. There is no other transport. In parallel to this, the municipality in both planning periods... In the first planning period, the opportunity to build an intercommunal road was used, then we submitted the Smolyan Project, which was a million and 300. The policy opportunities for the state to support this area, because apart from what is the administration, what is transport electronics, what is primarily tourism as potential is the roads. And I turn to you as you would say: the term is running out. Yes, the mandate is running out, but the financial resources that will be directed to use this year are now being structured to finance and build roads. I am addressing you for more financial resources in Smolyan Municipality and from the road that will go Smolyan "Baniata," which for years I have been asking, you are the fourth minister I ask, and now little money is put in place, and for the road that is needed, for 15 years now Smolyan has not been rehabilitated Smolyan "Smilyan" Arda, which is also state-owned, and there is a need to think about the border with Greece and the next road to Mugla. There's also important communications. There is, above all, a wonderful population living there, so I think the state should commit more to this policy, even to municipal roads in such critical areas. And I don't think you can say much: ask Smolyan Municipality. Yes, there at the moment the road is virtually impenetrable, and Smolyan Municipality, if you have to put ten million to do it, it needs the entire term, by all means that are from local taxes and fees to go only for this time. The state in terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u54	Get it over with, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u55	...municipal roads must cooperate with municipalities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u56	Thank you. Will you use a hole, Mrs Avramova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yankova, Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provide care for the entire region of Smolyan. We have provided a lot of projects for implementation in the Programme for 2021, and the public roads in the territory of Smolyan region are in good and medium condition and 59 km are in bad shape. We continue our efforts in Smolyan district in Smolyan municipality. You know that the government grants funds to municipalities on specific projects such as assistance and assistance for both the roads in the territory of municipalities and other projects which they prioritized as important, so at the end of last year many municipalities received funds just for the Republican road network on their territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u58	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MP Alexander Matsurev on the readiness of the state for the snow-cleaning of the Republican road network in Blagoevgrad region. Lord Matsurev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u59	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the state's ability to clean the Republican road network in Blagoevgrad. Dear Minister, winter has come and the topic of cleaning roads from the Republican road network is back up to date. As a Member of the National Assembly elected by Blagoevgrad District, I believe it is my duty to ask you this parliamentary question about the readiness of the State for the winter maintenance of these road sections located in the territory of the district. I am also doing this because of the fact that such questions have been addressed to me in my meetings with citizens and with business representatives. I would like to assure you that this parliamentary issue has been drawn up with responsibility that Blagoevgrad is also a tourist destination for ski tourism and adequate snow cleaning there so far on the roads is important for that the residents and tourists who arrive to receive a quality service. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: what is the state's readiness for winter maintenance of the roads of the Republican road network, which are in the territory of Blagoevgrad district? What is the amount of funds provided for snow cleaning? And what actions were taken for snow-cleaning of Republican road II-19, passing between the Predela Pass and Republican road II-84 in the section between Bansko and Yundola, which have an extremely important importance for transport connections in the region.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Matsurev, the winter maintenance of the Republican road network on the territory of the district is carried out by the Road Maintenance................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The funds provided for the winter maintenance of the Republican roads in the first, second and third classes and the Struma Motorway for the 2020 season 2021 totalled 8 million. 516 thousand. BGN 127. with VAT. The amount of inert materials planned for the entire winter season is 15 thousand. tonnes, 3195 tonnes of salt, 47 tonnes of dry matter chemical materials, as well as 100 machines at the 15 supporting points serving the sections. All preparatory procedures prior to the early operation of the terrain and the normal operation of road infrastructure and facilities under winter conditions shall be implemented within and according to the regulatory requirements. There is a plan for winter maintenance that is consistent with all responsible institutions. A plan for action under aggravated winter conditions and an operational plan for winter maintenance has been prepared accordingly. Representatives of Regional Road Management perform a daily tour of the Republican Road Network on the territory of Blagoevgrad district and check the readiness of the contractor company, as well as the availability of specialized equipment and materials for the support points. Regarding the two Republican roads to which you pay particular attention in your question: road II-19 in the precinct passing through the Predela Pass and II-84 between Bansko and Yundola. Because of their great importance, of course, to ensure communication with the winter resorts, I provide you with the following information: road II-19 from Simitli to the border of Greece, 106 km long, the route is in good operational condition, with four supporting points: Madana, Dobrinishte, 5 km and Mochura asphalt base, a total of 34 machines and the required amount of inert materials. On road II-19 in the area 37 km between Razlog and Bansko are placed 200 m snow protection equipment to protect the road sail from infatuation. Road II-84 Belovo " Pazardzhik" on the territory of Blagoevgrad District Road Management with a length of 45.9 km is in good technical operational condition. In order to ensure normal passability, two points of support are allocated to Banya and Black Places, equipped with nine machines and inert materials. During the whole season, the road support company will continue to supply the required quantity...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u62	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u63	...to process the floorings. Maybe I won't have enough time to give you information about the current situation and what happened in the last few days. I'll just say that the closed roads, those that overflowed the rivers, Places came out of their trough, there is a broken bridge that is currently recovering and we have the firm's assurance that it will be restored by the end of the week. Destabilization processes on route II-19 from the pouring rains, on the roads, restore the problem. We have already rebuilt one of the roads where there was a landslide process, so I should rather thank everyone who participated in the District Road Management...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u64	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u65	...and the companies, for the timely response and for the rapid response under these created complicated conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u66	Do you have a line, Mr. Matsurev? The line is a brief objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully thank you for your extensive response and I am pleased with it, and I would like to congratulate you on the adequate treatment of the situation in recent days and for the rapid response. Indeed, the road Bansko is open and the two sails are working. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u68	That was a disagreement, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u70	Thank you. I take it you won't be using a hole, Madam Secretary? Thank you. The next question is from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov regarding the provision of drinking water and water for domestic use to the residents of the villages of Gradzhnitsa and Glogovo Mrs. Naydenova, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Residents in the upper part of the village of Gradzhnitsa, as well as those from the village of Glogovo These villages mainly enjoy local water sources, but they are not enough. There is a plumbing in the upper part of the village of Gradzhnitsa, which can supply drinking water to the villages listed above, but it is of unclear status and insufficient flow. Our question to you, Madam Minister, is this: whose property is it? Who manages, maintains and exploits the plumbing in question? And when will drinking water and water be provided for domestic needs to the residents of the villages of Gradzhnitsa and Glogovo, Teteven municipality, Lovech district?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova, as always laconic and accurate. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Naydenova, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works implements the state policy in the "Water and sewerage" sector. The infrastructure of the settlements is owned by the municipalities and they assign the construction of the water system facilities, public municipal property in accordance with the regional general plans and general plans of agglomerations and investment programmes to them. The village of Gradzhnitsa and Glogovo sofia Teteven, Lovech district, are supplied with water, as you have noted, mainly from local water sources, which are by their nature entirely dependent on the weather condition, mostly on the amount of precipitation. The water supply system of the village of Gradzhnitsa in Teteven municipality, which is maintained and operated by the operator The northern part of the village is supplied by a water main, which is a deviation from the leading highway water supply. The southern part of the neighborhood is provided by a local water supply, a captivated spring. The rest of the village, i.e. the other three neighborhoods, is supplied by a local captivated spring. The cave and its facilities are public municipal property of Teteven municipality. These are assets the municipality of Teteven has not yet submitted for management of the water supply. After completion of the necessary documents and construction papers, the plumbing will be transmitted to the water service operator for the management, maintenance and operation and provision of the water supply service to consumers under the order laid down in the Treaty for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities. The village of Glogovo is supplied by its own water sources, captivated springs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Glogovo's water supply system is public municipal property of Teteven municipality and is provided for the operation and maintenance of Water and Water and Water. In connection with the reduced flow rates of the water sources, the operator notified by letter the mayors of Teteven municipality and Glogovo village and proposed taking appropriate action to introduce a water supply regime, after which with the order of the mayor of the village of Glogovo from 15 July 2020, a regime was introduced in the village. At the moment, the water supply to the village has been restored. To conclude, I would like to point out that in order to improve the quality of the service provided, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is financing sites and activities for the construction or reconstruction of public water supply and sewerage infrastructure in the event of project readiness by municipalities, regional administrations and according to the approved funds in its budgetary programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u74	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you have a line? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! I use the right to a reply to say that precisely Teteven, the Teteven municipality and those villages that were the subject of our question with Mrs. Alexandrova are a mini model of the confusion in the water supply systems, which was created not only during this term, but back in time and a little difficult to solve with the various associations and other forms that the state now introduces and requires they to have a solution. First of all, I don't know if you know, Mrs. Minister, but Teteven municipality is not a shareholder in Water and Water, for some or other reasons. Even if she betrays her assets, she is not a shareholder. Yeah, she's a participant in the Regional Water Use Association, but she's not a shareholder in Water and Water. That's one. Secondly, in one village of Gradzhnitsa, you correctly noticed that almost half of the village is not covered by the water company. It is supplied in a completely different way by its own water sources, for which the municipality has to allocate funds to repair and so on without charging any water charges. It has no right to do this, demek cannot resume and increase the quality of water supply. Thus, there is no guarantee that water supply will be quality, which is a second fact. Perhaps in public policy there should be serious views precisely on the water supply of these settlements, which are currently alive, where there are young people developing. It is also our appeal to you to pay attention to them, to devote funds, regardless of whose ownership the plumbing is, and to help them. [[The President Valeri Simeonov signals that time is over.]] In addition, Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that, after we were there, more than 300 requests for participation in Water and Water Lovech have been gathered for people who are not covered by Water and Water. Did this have to be done by a meeting, which was also attended by the MPs, with which the mayor of the village of Rusanov, where the municipal administration also undertook to introduce some order and to go to help those people who are entitled to quality water supply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u77	Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, you are absolutely right that the responsibility of both municipalities and the state is to provide quality water supply to all residents of Bulgaria. This is a precedent in which people receive water from a water supply and from a captivated spring without paying for this water. We will be the active party and we will try to activate the process of restoration of construction works of Teteven municipality so that this captage and this water supply can be provided to the water supply water and water supply, so that Lovech can invest in this water pipeline and the inhabitants of these three neighborhoods can receive this service as regulated as all the others in Bulgaria and pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on management, maintenance and operation and removal of a leak from water supply in the village of Velchevo, Apriltsi municipality, Lovech district. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! And the next question is water. The water operators accepted from the Association for Water and Water of the Separate Areas the management, maintenance, operation of the water systems and facilities, which in most cases are highly depreciated, with frequent accidents, the need for repair, maintenance and investment. Such a leak with a limitation of five to seven years, with a wetland formed, whose borders grow and affect more agricultural land, is located in the land of the village of Velchevo, the municipality of Apriltsi, the district of Lovech, in the section between Republican Road III-3505, the village of Velchevo, the municipality of Apriltsi, the branch village of Gumoshtnik, the municipality of Troyan, and the river Vidyma. In order to maintain an existing road, the inhabitants of Velchevo village have drained the terrain, with water flowing directly into the river. In this section passes a drinking water pipeline in the village of Gumoshtnik, Troyan municipality, and for which the water supply is paid by the operator of the town of Stonyto. My question to you, Madam Minister, is this: whose property is it? Who manages, maintains and exploits the plumbing in question? When will the above leak be removed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Naydenova, the highway plumbing from Apriltsi water supply system, which provides water to the town of Apriltsi, the village of Scandalotto and Velchevo, the municipality of Apriltsi, and the settlements of the municipality of Troyan are public government property. It was built of steel pipes in 1988. In the section from Velchevo village to the water shaft Gumoshtnik the water main is provided for operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage services, as an operator with a contract for management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities and provision of water supply and sewerage services, which is concluded with the Association of Water and Water. The opinion of the experts is that the overall physical condition of the plumbing is relatively good. However, given the years of operation, accidents are observed in different sections along the highway plumbing. In the section from Velchevo village to Gumoshtnik water shaft over the past two years, a total of three vehicles have been identified and removed in 2020 and one issue in 2019. At the moment, the leak you are referring to has been removed and there is no leakage of drinking water in the cited section of the water pipeline. I would like to inform you that the water main is located before the Gumoshtnik water shaft, which is the final point of services by the Water and Water Department Lovech, a section of the leading highway plumbing. The Water and Water Network has taken measures to address the problem permanently and the operator's investment programme for 2021 is set to replace 100 meters of the water supply in this section. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works under its powers seeks to find effective solutions for all water infrastructure challenges. The systematic actions and measures taken are entirely in the direction of a better quality of the service offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u83	Dear Minister, I asked this question for the following reasons: First, according to the people of Velchevo village affected by the problem, last five or seven years ago after an accident there the pipe was replaced with a metal pipe, which they believe has already long been corroded. Unfortunately, they may be right, because the swamp is not just one, but there are two more smaller ones. At the next meeting with you, I will provide you with the photos in question. I'll make sure the leak is actually closed in the river. I appeal to you, to address both you and the competent authorities, that you will really need more serious investments in this area, as it is located at the lowest level of the municipality of Apriltsi. The municipality itself has a much higher altitude and the hydraulic pressure is very high here. Without being a specialist, I really expect the specialists to decide this area, and it is a priority for a number of reasons. The problems in Apriltsi municipality with regard to the water systems are extremely serious, Madam Minister. I'm preparing another matter for you. I hope that, with joint efforts and understanding in the future, we must, however, start to resolve these issues. Thank you. I hope for a responsible attitude of the Water and Water Department Lovech to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Would you like to use the back? No, thank you, Madam Minister. The next question is from the MP Milen Mihov on the disposal of land property with identifier 65766.702.4482 on the cadastral map and cadastral registers of the land town of Svishtov, with area of 11 974 sq. m and buildings representing built plot XXXVII with area of 11 200 sq. m, district 66 and five buildings with total built area 1204 sq. According to the Act on Public State Property No 753 of 5 November 2000, according to a previous regulation plan. This issue is united with the next issue, which is from the MP Yavor Bojankov, concerning land property with identifier 65766.702.4482 on the cadastral map and cadastral registers of the land town of Svishtov with area of 11 974 sq. m and buildings representing built plot XXXVII, with area of 11 200 sq. m, district 66 and five buildings with total built area 1204 sq. According to the Act on Public State Property No 753 of 5 November 2000, according to a previous regulation plan. You seem to have conspired to ask the same question, written in the same way?! To ask a question first, I give the floor to the MP Milen Mihov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, MPs from Veliko Tarnovo have always performed high quality regardless of their political decoration. I will be brief so that my colleague can make his arguments. Popularly speaking, Mrs. Minister, it's about a terrain quite large on the old hospital, as it is known in Svishtov, which is 30 years old. There is a well-designed destiny to be provided to the then Half-High Institute of Economics, which later became a structure of the Industrial Academy, for building study corps, residential buildings and so on, i.e. for educational needs. In those 30 years this terrain has not been used, no investment processes have developed there and last year, i.e. 2019 already, at the end of May, the municipal council with a corresponding decision commissioned the mayor of the municipality to take action to return this terrain from public state property to the municipality and to be used for public municipal activities related to recreation, park deployment and trade. In November 2020, the Economic Academy of Commerce took action to end the contracts as of January 15th this year, with several tenants of moving sites on this terrain in view of the upcoming sale of this terrain. In this regard, Minister, I ask you the following questions: has a file been received for sale of the property in question in your ministry and what actions do you intend to take for an order of that property, which is public government property, in the case of the clearly stated wish of Svishtov municipality to be granted for public and municipal needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, so that I do not repeat the questions of colleague Mihov, just to add a few more to them. At what stage is the procedure, if there is and is an obstacle to the decision of the municipal council and especially the people in Svishtov care what their fate will be? It concerns dozens of small outlets, but these are dozens of families and hundreds of human destinies, which, Madam Minister, in one of the biggest crises in the middle of the winter, do not know at what point they will be expelled from these sites. They have received letters to leave them, and at the moment every day they wonder whether they will cut their electricity and how many more days they will have revenue to feed their families. In this regard, I ask you: what actions do you intend to take until the situation is clarified to calm these people down? Are you going to help by ending the eviction procedure because they have already received notice, at this difficult time, at least until the status and situation are clarified? And one more question. Since the correspondence between the institutions, despite the decision of the municipal council to dedicate the property to a park, for commercial activities in general for Svishtov's needs, while talking about investment interest, no one in Svishtov has yet to clarify what this interest is, whose interest is it to build a large trade chain, whether a park will be built, whether sports facilities will be made? This is the other side of the coin and this is a very important issue for Svishtov. People need to know, have the right to know what will happen to one of the most important sites in the city, what is its future.. This has social, economic importance for Svishtov municipality. Therefore, I ask you to answer this question as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer both questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihov, dear Mr. Bojankov! In the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is received a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science for withdrawal from the Industrial Academy M, together with the buildings built therein, detailed in an act of public state property No 753 of 5 November 2000 and its declaration of private State property. In this regard, a file of 16 November 2020 was formed. No request has been lodged at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by the mayor of the municipality, accompanied by the decision of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Svishtov for free transfer of ownership of the property of state property to the municipality in accordance with art. 54 of the State Property Act, respectively for its free grant for management under art. 15, para. 2 of the Law in favour of the municipality, containing the corresponding comprehensive argumentation and justification for the legality and appropriateness of the specific proposal. At present, the property has the status of public government property with the rights of administration granted, as I have already said, to the Industrial Academy under the Public State Property Act, in respect of which there is an explicit ban on an order given the imperative provision of art. 7, para. 1 of the State Property Act. In accordance with art. 7, para. 1 the properties and property of public government cannot be subject to an order and acquired by statute of limitations. The Academic Council of the Economic Academy shall hold two meetings with regard to the quoted property. At the first meeting, Decision No 7 of 10 July 2019 was adopted to give consent to the launch of a procedure for the free transfer of ownership of the property to public government property. At a meeting held on 30 September 2020, at which Decision No 2 of the Academic Council was adopted, which revised and repealed Decision No 7 of 2019, the new Decision No 2 expressed a request for the opening of a procedure for changing the status of the property and its sale in view of the fact that the property has lost its purpose as public property within the meaning of art. 2, para. 2, p. 4 of the State Property Act, not stating whether there are investment intentions in relation to the property and what particular they are. A copy of Decision No 2 of the Academic Council of the Industrial Academy was presented to the letter of the Minister of Education and Science on 16 November 2020. As I pointed out above, according to art. 7, para. 1 properties and property of public government cannot be subject to orders and cannot be acquired by limitation. In this regard, the Ministry sent a letter with an outgoing number of 26 November 2020, addressed to the Ministry of Education and Science, the Regional Governor of Veliko Tarnovo District and the Rector of the Industrial Academy, requesting the submission of additional documents and information with a view to the proper completion of the file and its subsequent procedure and in particular the drawing up of a new public state property act for the property on the grounds of art. 71 of the Law given the existence of cadastral maps and cadastral registers for the town of Svishtov. Secondly, carrying out a check by the governor of Veliko Tarnovo district on the need to provide the requested property with public government property for the management of other departments or legal entities of budget maintenance, and in the event of such a request the property is suitable for carrying out the functions of the structures listed above to make a proposal in this regard. Third, in case of a negative response to the above hypothesis, prepare a reasoned report by the regional governor for changing the status of the property from public state to private state property. Finally, the submission of a financial justification for the accompanying costs of the management of the property and prepared according to the instructions of the Ministry of Finance. Regarding the question whether the decision of the municipal council is an obstacle to changing the status of the property, you should bear in mind that the procedure under art. 54 of the State Property Act is a legal possibility for the municipality to acquire state property related to certain regulatory restrictions on its subsequent use. The assessment, where appropriate, of the owner of the property shall be the decision whether or not to grant it under that order. In conclusion, we have so far requested the provision of these additional documents, which I have cited, with a view to properly drawing up a new public state property act for the property subject to the proposal. Seen from the subsequent correspondence held on the file between the district governor of Veliko Tarnovo and the Rector of the Economic Academy with a copy to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concerning the file formed by us was not completed fully in accordance with the regulations, which is why it was not re-examined. That is, at the moment we have stopped the case because it is not complete with all documents and we do not yet have a request from Svishtov Municipality for acquisition or giving for management of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u90	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mihov, a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer, but I do not agree that these letters that you have sent to the state institutions are sufficient to clarify and correct this issue. It is obvious from our questions that there is a decision of the municipal council, which is the authority of the authorising authority, regarding municipal property. It is obvious that this decision expresses the public desire of the citizens of the municipality to acquire the status of municipal property and to use it for the needs of Svishtov citizens in one of the most living, most populated neighborhoods near school. I think we should follow the good practice that the Ministry of Defence introduced with regard to Svishtov Municipality, providing free ground for the old barracks and solving a long-standing problem. I think that the state in your person should follow this model and this property, which is obviously with a reduced need for educational needs, to return to Svishtov municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u92	Thank you. A hole, Madam Secretary? [[Reply from MP Milen Mihov.]] He responds to your line, after which Mr. Bozhankov will have the opportunity to reply and reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihov, you know that the purely administrative procedure requires the initiative to be from Svishtov Municipality. In this way, it was also handled by the properties of the former barracks that the Ministry of Defense provided. The municipalities launch such a procedure, a request to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In this case, the property is provided to the Industrial Academy of Svishtov, through the Minister of Education with a request for transfer to property under art. Art. 54 or for administration under art. 15. Note that the transfer under art. 54, as I mentioned earlier, has its regulatory limitations, so municipalities cannot dispose, cannot sell the properties they have acquired. However, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works cannot provide to anyone, any administrative property structure, without it being requested in due order, as stated in the State Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u94	Thank you. A line, Mr. Bojankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, from the answer I personally found out that letters fly in all directions between you and the governor of the district, between your ministry and the Ministry of Education, all letters are exchanged between all institutions. However, what we need to bring today as a response to the people of Svishtov is what their future is, because they have received notice to leave the sites. So they could be on the streets at any moment without food, without electricity and no way to feed their families. So we owe them that answer. I did not find an answer in your speech. What is the real answer to the investment interest? What's the rush? Because they got the letters to leave the sites now, I repeat, in the middle of winter, during the biggest crisis. Why rush when no one has a clear, concrete answer what is this investment interest? Is it there, isn't it, why is he in such a hurry to sell this property? There is not even an answer to the question what will be done there? Park, sports facilities, will keep the outlets, will destroy the outlets? What's really going to happen there? And for such an important property, not a single ministry, not a single office, a district manager, the entire government in the state cannot give a simple answer to those people who are taxpayers. They have a right to know. I have not been able to find a single answer from your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u97	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bojankov, I understand your concern for the people who are tenants on this field, but the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has no bearing on investment intentions and on the letters the Business Academy has sent to these tenants. Firstly, because the Industrial Academy in Svishtov is not at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We are the authority that under the State Property Act administers the process. In this regard, I also mentioned earlier that we do not have information about investment intentions. Such information has not been provided to us by any office of the Ministry of Education and Science, which has initiated the procedure for the property of public state property to be declared property private government property, nor by the governor of the district to give information about investment intentions, nor by the Industrial Academy in Svishtov. We are the authority that administers the process. In this regard, we strictly respect the law and therefore we have issued these requests in order to understand the intention of all state and municipal institutions that have the right to acquire or manage this property, whether there is interest, and we are very careful, we have always been careful, with the disposal of state property. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has always been about the state property, which is exhausted resources, not being sold and not being subject to disposal transactions. So for now we can request information from the Industrial Academy in Svishtov what letters they have sent to their tenants, but this is not within the competence of our ministry. I understand your concern for the people, and I understand Mr. Mihov's concern. We have stopped the process of converting the property from public to private government property and this is not on the agenda at this stage. The tenants themselves have relationships with the Industrial Academy in Svishtov, which is in no way related to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I would advise you to hold your talks with the Board of Directors, the Academic Council of the Industrial Academy in Svishtov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u98	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was the last question to Minister Avramova. Ms. Desislava Ahladova, Minister of Justice, will respond to a question from MP Krum Zarkov about the government's policy in the area of judicial reform and the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the European Commission on the rule of law in Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Minister Ahladova, on 6 November 2020, by Decision No 806 the Council of Ministers approved a plan for implementing measures in response to the recommendations and challenges contained in the European Commission Report of 30 September 2020. It concerns, as everyone already knows, the rule of law in Bulgaria. Points 3 and 4 of this Decision state that the Plan will be subject to public consultation, may be supplemented if necessary. In fact, this plan is yet another one, which over the years the Bulgarian government has drawn up in response to the euphemistic expression, is recommendations, the real expression is criticism, from the European institutions to the way in which we have organized and functioned our justice system. Once I list these programming intentions, it'll take me three minutes to ask. I will only share a few, without being thorough, to give people the idea that such plans are made regularly. Unfortunately, they haven't had any effect so far, otherwise we wouldn't have had another reference. In this regard, the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform and the Council to it can also be mentioned; it can also be said that a National Mechanism for Monitoring the Fight against Corruption and Organized Crime, Judicial Reform and Rule of Law, as well as a Coordination and Cooperation Council to it has been established recently. If we go back in the years, a few more of these can be defined. After all, logic is always the same when we do not know or want to do something, we promise that we will do it further in time after we draw up a plan, a working group, a committee and so on until the next time. I hope it is not the same this time, and that is why my question is this: how does it fit in, what will be the added value of this new plan in the government's rule of law policy so far, and what changes could it be expected to lead to?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zarkov! On 30 September 2020, the European Commission published the Annual Report on Rule of Law in the Member States. The chapter for Bulgaria in the report objectively reflects the current state of the processes in our country. We are pleased that the results of the reforms undertaken have been objectively taken into account. At the same time, the areas identified in the report in which our country should focus its actions on judicial reforms coincide with the identified priorities of the government. In response to the findings in the report, on 4 November 2020, the Council of Ministers, as you rightly pointed out, adopted a Plan to implement the measures to address these challenges. The plan covers activities on the four pillars of the justice system, a legal framework for combating corruption, media pluralism and media freedom, as well as other institutional issues related to the principle of interconnection and interconnection. The planned actions are with the short-term 6 months, and the fast-term 2 years implementation period. The document is made public at the Public Consultation Portal, and the purpose is really to be a living document. The mechanisms provided for to allow flexibility and effectiveness of the document are the possibility to be supplemented and updated by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs and by the Minister of Justice. I would like to say very briefly that the Pillar "Justice system" provides for measures relating to the completion of the legislative reform in relation to the figure of the Prosecutor General, its accountability and criminal liability according to the opinion of the Venice Commission and the constitutional framework in force; improving the work and independence of the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council; suspending public access to the already issued declarations of magistrates for membership in professional organisations; improving access to justice. With regard to the Legal Framework for the Fight against Corruption, measures are envisaged to increase the effectiveness of investigations into corruption crimes; to achieve more solid results in terms of final sentences in this area; legislative amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. Measures are also envisaged to improve the overall work of the Commission to combat corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property by securing human resources, as well as to increase public confidence in this body. The questions under the pillar "Media pluralism and media freedom" will be included as a priority area "Media environment" in the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2030." The issues related to the protection of journalists from violations will be put to public discussion, strengthening transparency on the distribution of state advertising, the concentration of media property. All issues that were raised in the Rule of Law Report. Other institutional issues related to the principle of interconnectivity and inter-borderisation are envisaged for the adoption of a Guide for subsequent impact assessment by the Council of Ministers, introducing a requirement for a preliminary assessment of the impact on the draft regulations of ministers having economic, social and environmental impact. As part of the measures under this pillar, it is intended to continue the activities of the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform at the Ministry of Justice. With regard to the questions you have raised that the updated strategy is not actually working, I would like to say that the judicial system is currently being implemented, and a large number of them are being implemented, over 20 projects in relation to exactly the updated strategy. The introduction of the Single Information System of the Courts; the introduction of electronic supports; the introduction of the Single e-Justice Portal; these are projects that have been implemented and are included in the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, so in this sense I do not agree with you that this strategy is pointless. In view of the above, I believe that the priorities set out in the Plan are a systematic continuation of the judicial reform policy so far, reflecting and continuing the implementation of the recommendations under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and a result of the Council's work on implementing the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary. To express the good will and support of the government, as I have already pointed out, we volunteered to join the initiative of the German Presidency to hold a country-specific discussion on protocol, agreeing to be the first group of five Member States to discuss the reports of which were discussed on 17 November last year in the framework of the General Affairs Council............................................................. Debates were held on the first annual reports on the rule of law in Bulgaria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Estonia. In the course of the discussion the Presidency, referring to the Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers, pointed out Bulgaria as a positive example in terms of learning lessons from identified problems in the report. It is one of the parties that has been set as an example in relation to the Action Plan, including the Commissioner for Justice. The implementation of the measures in the Plan is also under way on 3 December this year, by implementing the envisaged measure to initiate a procedure for requiring an expert opinion by the Venice Commission on proposals for amendments to the legislation providing for measures relating to the completion of legislative reform in relation to the figure of the Prosecutor General, I addressed to the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva with a request to take the appropriate steps as the bill was tabled by lawmakers. On 29 December 2020, amendments were published in the Official Journal of the European Union to the Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure Code, which established the legislative framework for e-Justice. Also with regard to the Plan, a working group has been formed to explore good European practices and to prepare a concept for regulating lobbying in line with the recommendations and standards of the European Commission. I am taking this opportunity to assure you that the Ministry of Justice will continue to implement the measures set out in the Plan in a consistent manner, and all recommendations and proposals will be taken into account in the course of the reforms. Finally, I would like to stress that Bulgaria has always demonstrated support for the creation of a single European mechanism for respect for the rule of law in all Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, there are indeed so many years of repeating these things that you have expressed today from the stands, but I will try with the supplementary questions to direct you to the main problems. May we finally begin to speak a little more frankly and with clarity what needs to be done. What you have read and spoken here and what is written in the Plan is largely what needs to be done. Everyone knows what needs to be done. The question is: how and when will it be done? I will give you just one example from your plan why this question is the important one and not the common goal. Here, it aims to support the independence of the judiciary. This is page 2, measure 4: "Creating a public register of cases of abuse against the independence of the judiciary" to be published on the website of the SJC. This was already published in December 2020. This was already published in December 2020. Have you met this register, Madam Minister, is my first supplementary question, and what do you think of it; do you think he correctly identifies the dangers to the judiciary and this is a reaction that will lead to the achievement of the objective? My second supplementary question. Having said that even the Commissioner for Justice of the European Commission has very much liked the Plan and praised us much, why didn't you go to the meeting of the monitoring group on democracy, fundamental rights and rule of law last week? Why, after we have made a plan to respond to the European institutions, are you fleeing a direct meeting with those who have drawn up the resolution, with those who write the monitoring mechanisms, with the representatives of the Venice Commission who participated in this meeting? Why didn't you join him? One by hand that there were invited Chief Prosecutor, Prime Minister, but you cannot be responsible for the SAC, but at least as the main representative of the government in this area, along with Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva, why didn't you participate in this dialogue?! It is high time to stop running away from questions or making decisions or admit that you do not have them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. A hole, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u105	Dear Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Regarding your question, have I met the Register? Yeah, I've met the register. I believe that the Supreme Judicial Council has done extremely much in the past two years in support of defending the independence of the judiciary, including the declarations adopted by the Supreme Judicial Council, when it concerns the independence of magistrates when there are media events affecting the independence of magistrates. In any case, the Supreme Judicial Council was self-sustaining and acting. With regard to your second question, I would like to point out that a meeting with the European Parliament was held another August month in which I participated, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva, to which we have answered the questions for more than four hours. These questions were further developed subsequently in writing, and the new questions were also answered in writing. In the last meeting, I could not participate because of a health problem. In this regard I could not participate, but my deputy Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov took part in the meeting, answering the questions for an hour. With regard to the fact that we are not in contact with the institutions, I would like to point out that on Monday, we had a meeting with the Commissioner for Justice, where we have also answered for an hour the questions raised by the European Commission, including the preparation of this plan, which we are currently talking about and are in constant contact with the European Commission for the last four years. So, Mr. Zarkov, what you note is that we have no contact with the European Commission is not in line with the actual situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u106	Thank you for your participation, Madam Secretary. [[Reply from MP Krum Zarkov.]] You're right, Mr. Zarkov, about expressing attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, I hope your health problems are overcome, I hope you are healthy. I am afraid that communication with the European Commission and with this group will continue in the form of additional questions until people finally get the answers they are looking for. It is my job and my colleagues to get the answers that Bulgarian citizens are looking for. The plan we're discussing with you today doesn't give them up. This is not a plan. This is my attitude to implement the measures, this is a plan to postpone the necessary actions. This is not just a statement, but the deadlines show it.. the terms of questions that stand before you as a government for at least four years, and before us as a society of fifteen. Once again they have been placed and their decision has been postponed for the month of April next year, November next year, for another term, for another period, for another majority, which may be good. It's also an escape from responsibility, a responsibility of the Justice Department. In order not to be naked, I will give you just one example. The prosecution will prepare expert proposals for changes in the NKK and the PPC in relation to corruption crimes. Do you think it's the prosecution's job to write criminal and criminal law? For what does the Directorate-General exist the Legal Service in your ministry? What's the legislative authority for, what's the majority for? What is his policy in this key problem for the Bulgarian country to overcome, respectively, for sanctions, for corruption crimes? Is the D.A. gonna run an analysis on why things haven't worked out so far? Well, she's supposed to be the subject of this analysis herself. I can give dozens more of these examples of escapes from responsibility to the Venice Commission, to the SJC, to the prosecution, to the media. In this plan it is written that the SJC, you see, will train journalists. Is that the work of the personnel organ?! With one hand he writes a register in which he accuses journalists who criticize him for attacking them, and with the other hand he will train them. What kind of nonsense is this?! We will soon present our plan of action in the judicial reform, where not only the problems are clearly identified, but the solutions are also known. By the way, the decisions are already known by everyone. Enough including international documents are described. I hope there is a majority in this election that has the will to offer them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We are continuing with a question to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on quality management of education. You have the floor, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In accordance with art. 22, para. 2 et c. 15 of the Law on pre-school and school education, the Ministry of Education and Science on 8 December 2016 issued a Regulation on Quality Management, which also defines the state educational standard for quality management in institutions in education. However, in December 2017, this regulation was repealed, but some of its requirements remained included in the other regulations in the field of education. Why is it necessary to have a single document that really determines the quality of education? First, because this is the legal requirement of the Preschool and School Education Act. Secondly, because one of the main objectives of this law is really that every child has access to quality education, and we need to determine what this quality education is, how it is proportionate. Moreover, because the creation of stable quality systems both in Bulgaria and in each of the European countries actually create a quality and inclusive education in the European area. We need synchronization of quality in Bulgarian educational institutions and also with international and European quality standards. In this way, we will also facilitate mobility of students, thus supporting the recognition of the qualification that is obtained both in Bulgaria and abroad. Moreover, the question of the quality of education and the need for its follow-up and, of course, development and promotion is once again pointed out in the COVID-19 conditions. Please, Minister, answer: Is the Ministry of Education and Science about to issue a Regulation on Quality Management in the Institutions, which is in line with the new requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, the Regulation was issued, you know, in 2016, but by my act I cancelled it in 2017. Why did I cancel? Because I have assessed, I have appreciated that the Ordinance in that form leads much more to further work on the preparation of documents and will, respectively, divert efforts from the basic, actual work of schools and pedagogical specialists because it relies on a formal and not on an active approach. I will tell you frankly that, in the meantime, from 2018 to today, a little more than two years, I have been presented with new versions of the Ordinance, which I also did not approve. We have an option drawn up right now. I dare say he's already better and much closer to our final option than the previous ones. I don't want us to understand quality just as a formal element. Quality is a function of many things. You know better than I do that it is mostly a function of access to good, motivated, prepared teachers and a number of other pedagogical specialists, especially if we are talking about the inclusive education that you have affected. The function is the good climate of work, the favorable physical environment, the support from everyone on the vertical, especially regional governments, from the director to the teachers, from the imposition of the culture of professionalism, from the imposition of culture and the policy of partnership, especially with parents, from the training and qualification of teachers. However, all these things cannot be achieved by writing down a certain number of documents, to any good concept and being subordinate, or rewritten, as is most often the case. I'll give you an example of accreditation. We have very well and beautifully written or copied documents that stand locked in a cabinet, tens, hundreds and thousands of hours of work, but they have not led in many cases to real policies. Look, there are schools with beautiful quality management systems on paper. If you appreciate them or we appreciate them, we'll probably appreciate them with the highest marks. From then on, we have many other comments on their policies. That's why it's canceled. In the education system, as in other systems, there are many things that are designed with good intentions, but have not produced the desired effect, they have produced, above all, additional work and hamalogy. The easiest thing is for me to approach formally, to say: I have issued all the regulations that the law obliges us. The aim of this regulation is to create a culture, not documents, a culture of self-assessment, a culture of analysis, an effort to improve measures, results, policies. This culture is slowly created, it is not created so and only thanks to the Regulation. I don't accept the argument that just because we have it in the Law, we have to give it away. That doesn't mean that this culture has stopped developing. Each school seeks to improve the qualification of pedagogical specialists, improve the material base, analyze their gaps, be more innovative. By the way, if there is any culture that has grown the most in recent years in the system, and I would say that the teachers and schools are infecting each other, it is the culture of imposing and seeking educational innovations aimed at improving motivation for learning and discovering the key to the motivation for learning each child. This is what we have encouraged and is very important, as I said, the function of regional governments and of directors with regard to the imposition of this culture. What I can promise you is that we will propose, probably at the latest next month, a draft regulation for public consultation. Although, to be honest, we still have some of the fears that this regulation will lead to one writing, copying documents, walking training, some of which are pointless and so on. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u112	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Simeonova, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u113	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I agree with you that this is a long and complex process and indeed the purpose of this regulation and the request of colleagues is not to aggravate their work. Yeah, that's how the old one really was. I have personally prepared a quality system in my school, too, and I know how it is, but as many of the requirements exist in the other regulations and with the adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education and state education standards, there were actually two main areas for quality management. One is the self-assessment of the school, which should improve the activity, the other was external evaluation. It goes well with the standard that is for inspection. And now the questions that colleagues are asking are related precisely to the fact that they must carry out activities related to this regulation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 271 of the Pre-school and School Education Act, I think it was pointed out there that the process of quality development management includes analysis, planning, development of activities, evaluation and already making improvements. And it says that all of this has to be regulated in this standard. What the coworkers want is in a few directions. First, what is the quality of education? Because it's very difficult to define, and for each institution it's different. And it's developing, you know how many definitions we've had in time. Then, what should be policy with objectives, with tasks [[the President signals that time has run out]] , which are the management bodies and their powers, the sequence in which this self-assessment, assessment of the teaching staff should be carried out? That's why all these questions are asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u115	And thank you for putting it to the table, both we and our colleagues will have the opportunity to put our questions and our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u116	Thank you. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u117	Mrs. Simeonova, I thank you for everything you've said is exactly like that. We do not have a single understanding, a single concept or, more precisely, we have a number of concepts about this: "What is quality education?" In any case, it is not to have good, beautifully written documents, and quality is a process of continuous improvement of work, increasing efforts, the effectiveness of work and the efforts of each participant in the educational degree. If you ask employers about our professional high schools, they will tell you that quality is what has prepared enough good specialists for them. If you ask a parent of a disabled child, it will say that these efforts are quality, this work that has created conditions for inclusive education. That is, all elements of the environment form the quality and they need to be better and stimulate the system as a whole, more effort and more favorable environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Minister of Culture Mr. Boil Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov on Art Gallery Mr. Bojankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The Art Gallery "Boris Denev" is one of the emblematic buildings for the old capital city and as architecture, as well as as importance, as well as location. Recently a renovation started in the gallery, which caused public discussions and even scandals. It is for changing the window of the gallery, the original wooden old window, was replaced by plastic, PVC windows. During the discussions that we have all seen, I hope, and you are aware, the argument that the building is not a monument of culture was applied, therefore there is no legal obstacle to this happening. Indeed, Minister, I agree with that, but I do not agree that a gallery, a temple of art can be defaced and disfigured in this way. The gallery was built by the celebrated architect Nikola Nikolov one of the best for his time. In this regard, I have put four questions to you about where the paintings are stored during the renovation, and since the question has been asked so far, I have found these answers and I ask you not to answer me. Please, Mr. Minister, let us focus only on the third question..........................and do you consider it appropriate for PVC windows to be installed on this building............................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojankov, in relation to your question, I inform you the following: Art Gallery "Boris Denev" is a legal person of budget support for Veliko Tarnovo Municipality. The management of the gallery is carried out in an administrative and organizational manner by the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality and methodically according to art. 31 of the Cultural Heritage Act of the Ministry of Culture. In connection with your question on 17 December 2020, an on-site inspection of the Art Gallery building was carried out by an inspector of the General Directorate for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture in the presence of Mr. Karabadjakov, Director of the Gallery. The inspection found that the building is being renovated under the Art and Culture Project "Sustainable Cross-border Assets" in support of the sustainable development of tourism "Sustainable Development of Tourism" under the Programme for cross-border cooperation "INTERREG V-A" Romania "Save other details." By letter dated 17 December 2020, the Director of the Gallery informed the Ministry of Culture of closing the exposure as required by art. 10 of Ordinance No H-4 of 8 October 2013 on the conditions and procedures for the presentation of cultural values, for the closure or temporary closure of permanent exposures. In view of the safe preservation of the exhibits, a review was made by a committee in the composition: Director of the gallery, curator, restorer and artmaker of the warehouse in the building of the Humanitarian High School. St. Cyril and Methodius. The gallery is provided for free use by Veliko Tarnovo Municipality. After a positive opinion to assess the temperature conditions for storage and the intended locking facilities and controlled access to the premises, a temporary transfer of the permanent exposure and of all exhibits in the building is organised and the requirements for transport packaging and logistics to the warehouse have been drawn up and the requirements for transport packaging and logistics are met. The gallery is closed to visitors due to the implementation of repair activities and the same is marked with information signs. The floors of the building are protected, representing a floor of natural wood. The ventilation system and floor radiators have been deactivated. At that point, a window from the pine window and a window from PVC is installed to specify the details of insulation and attachment. In order to achieve energy efficiency, the approved project provides that: the old, depreciated, pine frames which are not beyond repair and repainting should be replaced with white PVC frames in the same form, the same raster and membership which does not change the architectural and artistic characteristics and facades of the construction. In accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2, p. There is no need to carry out a conciliation procedure with the Ministry of Culture. Repair activities cover the interior of the building, implement energy efficiency measures and are implemented under an approved project. As a result of the verification, a constant protocol has been drawn up with instructions to take follow-up action on the implementation of strict copyright supervision, preserving brass covers and handles from the pine windows and installing them on the new PVC windows, preserving the interior doors, repairing and painting, preserving the outer doors of oak wood by repairing and preserving them with wood preservatives and preserving all original candlesticks, lamps, envelopes, chandeliers and other unique copyright details in the interior of the building. This protocol is sent to the owner of the Municipality of Veliko Tarnovo for implementation. The building of Art Gallery "Boris Denev" is located on the territory of a group real estate cultural property: The forest is situated in the historic village of Veliko Tarnovo, the monument of urbanism and cultural landscape. The building has no status as a single real estate cultural property and according to the Public Municipal Property Act of 24 August 2004 is owned by the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo. The property is situated in urbanized territory according to the current regulation plan of Veliko Tarnovo. According to the prescriptions and regimes established by the Ministry of Culture for the conservation of group real estates approved by Protocol No 3 of 10 April 2000, of the National Council for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the area is spatially belonging to the structure of the Revival City and its protection within the meaning of the Cultural Heritage Act affects a limited number of single real cultural values mainly of category. The general requirements concerning the conservation of all areas in the territory of "Historical settlement Veliko Tarnovo" refer to the urban planning and construction of natural resources, as well as the realization of new construction. According to the requirements of the Cultural Heritage Act for the Archaeological and Architectural Building Zone "St. only requests for new construction should be agreed. In this connection, the implementation of repairs in the building of the Art Gallery is permissible and the control over their implementation is not within the authority of the Ministry of Culture. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll say my personal attitude in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we have understood something we already knew that the building is not a monument of culture and there is no need for such a procedure. Surprised is the answer that the replacement of the windows does not change its facade. Just one look at a picture of this.. it is not too much to say the grotesque is enough to say that the facade is significantly altered, and it is not in the right direction. Nobody dreams of getting a gallery like Amsterdam, but if it could, at least not get uglier, we'd be happy. We leave aside how much the new window is worth and that this money could be bought not wooden, but gold, and we get to the point that the building is really, Mr. Minister, disfigured. It's a sad picture. It's a sad picture and in the way of logic that, if it's not, you know, a cultural monument, we can put a plastic dogramma on it, and I don't see the problem of glazed the balcony of the gallery, someone doing laundry, so it's clear that it's working like it's a panel block in a corner. I still find it admissible. I ask for your reaction, because on the path of parliamentary control I can only put the matter before you and I hope that, as rulers, you will take a reaction, react adequately and not transfer responsibility between a mayor, a director of a gallery with exchanges of letters and checks, as we are used to seeing. Because that's what the greats lose, that's what the old capital loses. Nobody deserves that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Bojankov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My personal attitude towards this is the same as yours. It is disgusting to put in Veliko Tarnovo on this building PVC windows. Fact! This does not change the fact that I can express my personal human attitude as a citizen, but as a minister I can only carry out legal procedures. So from this high tribune and I, just like you, as a citizen of this country, I can call for this to be corrected if possible. Yes, I don't have legal mechanisms to do this, but aesthetically, morally and all the others I have to ask for such a thing and thank you for the question I have asked. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two questions to Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Minister of Environment and Water, of the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov. The first of these is on the implementation of Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020." You have the floor, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the programming period 2014-2020 for the financial implementation of the Operational Programme 2014 - 2020 is now over and I say with great concern, it is more and more unsatisfactory. The actual amounts paid under the Programme are 38% and this is the lowest implementation of all operational programmes financed under the Cohesion and Structural Funds of the European Union in Bulgaria. Naturally, each of the ministers before you has their responsibility for the implementation of the OPS during the period I pointed out. However, I would like to emphasise that, within 2020, the funds actually paid are only 5%, whereas in the previous two years, the amount was not high, but it was 10% per year. Such a decline in practice represents almost stopping the implementation of the Programme. The fact is that the implementation of projects in the water sector depends, and very much, on the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and on the water companies, and the sector It is therefore given to it by both national and European legislation. I would like to point out that, with the same administrative capacity in the previous two years, the Programme has nevertheless been implemented and there has been a payment of 10% on an annual basis and to see what the statistics are. At the end of the programming period of 308 contracts were concluded only 40. This, in turn, represents slightly less than 7% of the agreed total amount of grants under the Programme. By Oss.. Waters... of 42 contracts concluded, have completed 9. Under Ossus, waste of 115 contracts have ended 3. By Ossus. Natura 2000 and [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In a nutshell, Mr. Chairman, my question is: how will all this delay be caught up, Mr. Minister? We hope that measures are identified to be implemented rapidly on all axes of the Operational Programme and there will be no loss of funds. I hope we get positive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Mr. Chakarov, for asking the question, because thanks to him I can be back in the National Assembly. A working day without me here is a loss to parliamentary democracy, to the state. As regards the question you have asked, the financial implementation of Operational Programme 2014 "Environment 2020." Procedures for the provision of free funding have been announced. At present, 59 procedures have been announced to provide financing at a total value of 4.3 billion. BGN, or 127% of the Programme's resource. We've negotiated even 20% on top so that if someone doesn't make it anywhere, we'll be willing to give them that money. And to your question: what are the emergency measures? In relation to the judiciary, where the procedures are, or to the mayors, what procedures can the minister take towards them.....................! Except to call them every day, to keep quiet, and they say, "That's what's bothering me, that's where I'm late, that's where I couldn't do it, and here I haven't started the project, there's money for funding, but I haven't started it." The agreed amounts of European and national co-financing. So far, 308 projects have been agreed under Operational Programme ==External links==* 137 pieces. The amount of free financing amounts to 3.8 billion. BGN, or 112% of the budget of the Programme. In 2020, the agreed funding amounts to 616 million. lv. Verified expenditures - European and national co-financing. To date, verified expenditure under the Programme amounts to 1.1 billion. BGN, or 32.4% of the budget. Certification of the cost of grants to the European Commission - European co-financing. The certified costs thus far amount to 1,1 billion. BGN, which is equal to 32.7% of the budget. Efforts are being made to overcome the negative consequences of the later start of projects in the sector The situation with the pandemic led to further delays due to an extension by at least two months of the time limits for submission of tenders and public procurement. Despite its complexity and volume in order to speed up the implementation of the Programme, the projects of the water operators were assessed and agreed for record time. The project proposals were presented in the period February-April 2019 and most were agreed in the period July-October 2019, i.e. for a period of three to five months. These are the efforts that the Ministry can make in the shortest possible time, but not instead of others to do this work. Unfortunately, the contract for the implementation of the main activities was announced late. Most in the period February-June 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. What's the line, Mr. Chakarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am really divided by what I am hearing, given that they have really started procedures, but they are from 2020. I have rightly pointed out that all the ministers have been responsible and before that from 2014 until now, but so far, unfortunately, we can say that, in view of the fact that it is the last place, this operational programme has almost failed, and we really need to make maximum efforts, if there are losses, to be minimal funds, because we have a huge need for this. It is hardly necessary to point out that we are facing a criminal procedure, possibly on the part of the European Commission, and we also have commitments that have not been fulfilled. There is a huge need for funds in this direction and on the other axes as well as for the waste, but for the water sector we know that there is a huge need. There is no way we can lose this money in any way that we can compensate them under national funding, so the best efforts must be made, whatever it takes, and efforts must be made by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Indeed, there must be complete mobilisation and concern. I am asking the question, I am really worried and we are very concerned with the implementation of this operational programme and on this axis. The Managing Authority is in the MOEW and I hope that in this period the second one for us, we have learnt the lessons and mistakes that have been made and weaknesses so that they are not there and all of this will be foreseen in the next programming period. Naturally, all this has happened with full coordination with our country which be beneficiaries, how to work. It is evident that this mechanism is not the easiest and most direct way to implement these projects. But, unfortunately, it is a very disturbing situation and I hope that in the remaining time again, if we must, we will rise again in our own way, as they say, so that these funds can be realized. We will monitor this process because it is of great public interest to all of us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister's coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u133	Mr. Chakarov, I'll be brief, hopefully comprehensive. All the ministers before me who were in my opinion, it's a personal opinion, they're not to blame. They have provided the necessary funds. The funds are here. The mechanism has been created and we "Operation program." They applied for all kinds of beneficiaries. Whether it was supposed to be one particular political colour, another, in a third, whether there is no one in this city or another here. Those who have won haven't mastered their money. They went into court proceedings, they started lawsuits, they started a procedure again, they picked one contractor, they picked a second one, and then they complain to each other... This whole thing is outside the ministers who were before me and headed this ministry, including me. When I tell a mayor, what's taking so long? Go to court, do something about the justice system? Or should I say, get rid of this mayor, he's lazy, he's legally elected. All beneficiaries who do not absorb their money, the problem is not the Ministry of Environment and Water. She provided them. We have given the money, they do not absorb it, but we must be guilty. I will give just one example with the depots that is easy. In 2009, when it was 2009, problems.. 113 depots. The state is giving funding. And with state funding, and subsequently European money, to be closed down. The procedure is over. 2010 starts, 2015 court procedures and so on. Currently there are one, two, three, six mayors. Some of them say: I am soon chosen. They haven't started at all, they don't care, because they won't pay the fines. Tell me with which mechanism? Every day we call them, every day we talk to them, the funds are provided by both the SPOS and the OPS. They don't care, they don't pay the fines. Now, for these six mayors, no matter what color they are, some of them are brand new, tell me, what responsibility should we give to all the ministers first, giving them the money? Or I'm trying to help them, and they don't care at all: right here, well, yeah, it's not my land, it's not my land, it's not my land, I didn't fix it, it's a stranger. But you, if you want to finance it... And nothing more. Tell me now which of the ministers has been guilty since 2009 to say it from the stand? In my opinion, everyone within their competence has made efforts, provided the funds and done everything they could to make this happen. Right now we're going to teach them how to do procedures. Well, let's work them out, make an enterprise that builds these depots. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chakarov's second question is about criminal procedures against Bulgaria in the field of environment. You have the floor, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, I would like to say a few more words before I ask the second question, which will be shorter. In no case do I refer to subjective liability in view of the inaction of the previous ministers, but I maintain my thesis on the responsibility of each of us. And I've been a minister no one has ever been perfect, and maybe there are a lot of gaps that shouldn't be allowed. We need to analyse the first programming period, as I just said, to improve the second programming period and to have a more effective implementation of the Operational Programme. We know what a fairy tale there is, or as they say: when the facts speak... I repeat, I'm concerned and concerned about what's going on. I am very aware, and we do not need to study here, to say what happens to the judiciary when it comes to that. The judicial system is independent and decides independent court cases, but, unfortunately, it must be analyzed and seen why so late the start of procedures, naturally, in recent years we have risen and worked. My second question to you is: what procedures have been brought against Bulgaria for violation of Community legislation or infrechment proceedings in the field of environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, Bulgaria's full membership in the European Union against Bulgaria has launched 102 criminal procedures and 83 of them have been closed due to fulfillment of the country's commitments and removal of violations. At present, 19 procedures are still pending, with 11 procedures at the formal notice stage and this being the first stage of the pre-trial phase of infringement procedures. Six of these procedures are for non-transposing within the European Union directives, one of which we have reported to the European Commission that the transposition process has been completed and we expect the closure of the procedure. Three procedures are for the incomplete transposition of the directives and the Ministry has taken the necessary steps to remove them. Two of the procedures relate to the failure to comply with obligations arising from European Union law which do not require changes in regulations and on which we are in constant dialogue with the European Commission. Three procedures are at the stage of a reasoned opinion, two are related to the application of European Union law in the field of biodiversity, and the third concerns the construction of waste water treatment plants for settlements with more than 10 000 inhabitants. There are two procedures in the judicial phase in the area of atmospheric air quality and marine policy. Judicial proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union are still pending and there is no ruling at this time. In two criminal procedures, there is a decree with clear judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The cases for Kaliakra and the reclamation of the old depots, our country is in constant contact with the European Commission and periodically reports on the progress in fulfilling our commitments. In one of the criminal proceedings, a second case is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and is requested to impose financial penalties, namely the procedure relating to the increase in fine particulate values. You should bear in mind that the procedures that are at the most advanced stage and in which Bulgaria has already been convicted have started in the period of the first years after Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and require considerable time and financial means to comply with the requirements of European legislation. During the years under the Operational Programme "Environment" in the previous programming period as well as in the current period, we are provided with significant funds to meet our commitments as a Member State, including to remedy the committed violations. We are planning to continue this in the next programming period 2021 - 2027 - within the framework of the new Environment Programme. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, apart from Bulgaria in the sectors where there are the most severe criminal procedures, the quality of the air, the European Commission has launched criminal procedures against almost all Member States, some of which are at a very advanced stage. In practice, this shows a systemic problem with meeting the requirements of European environmental legislation across the European Union, and it is constantly changing, constantly increasing, we need to catch up with them, and we have less money and it is harder to do so. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Environment and Water is making every effort necessary and maintaining a permanent dialogue with the European Commission, which is with a view to finding working solutions to remedy the committed violations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. What's the line, Mr. Chakarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u139	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, unfortunately, in the field of ecology, our country has been delaying for a decade the implementation of a number of commitments that you have pointed out. It's a good thing the team's making an effort and the Ministry. I am convinced that there is very serious expertise, although we have also commented on it from the high tribune of Parliament and during a meeting of the Committee on Environment and Water, but our country is at risk of really imposing a financial penalty because there is already a ruling by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg on air pollution. In addition, it is worrying that Sofia and Stara Zagora are one of the dirtiest cities not only in the country, but also within the European Union and the risk of sanctions, including financial ones, is in a very advanced phase. The country is at risk of imposing sanctions for non-compliance with the commitment to terminate the operation of the old depots. You pointed out biodiversity and I have asked you questions before, but responsibility has been transferred to Parliament. What is proposed is that the ruling majority of GERB also did not commit themselves to considering it because they quite liberalise the regime in protected areas and territories, as well as the lowering of measures to protect these areas. A response from our partners from Brussels is expected, but efforts must generally be made to meet the criteria and overcome these possible procedures against our country. We should not be reassured that there are those taken towards other member states, and we should look to be exclusive in terms of protecting wonderful biodiversity and all that we have in our country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. One remark, if I may, Stara Zagora is not the dirtiest city. There were a lot of posters after that. We're talking about Stara Zagora, but then we can continue with you. Mr. Minister's coat? That concludes parliamentary control today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 20 January 2021 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
