ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting! [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I offer your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for 22 and 23 July 2021: "1." Draft decision on the election of the Temporary Commission for the preparation of draft Rules for the Organization and Activities of the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Importers supposed to Tosko Yordanov and a group of MPs. 2. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalata, Burgas. Importers "Albena Varbanova" and a group of MPs. 3. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as the investigation of facts and circumstances related to wiretapping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. 4. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state and municipal enterprises, companies with more than 50 percent state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last 5 years. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. 5. Hearing of Boyko Rashkov, Minister of the Interior, and Yanaki Stoilov, Minister of Justice on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, concerning a request for early termination of the term of office of Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev. Importers suppose Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. This is the project of a program based on the proposals received yesterday. Please vote! Vote 213 MPs: 185, against 18, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Capon, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest BNT 1 and BNR deliver today's meeting directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u3	Back-up procedural proposal? I won't. Please, voting mode. They voted 199 MPs: 163, against 19, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Please activate BNT and BNR cameras. Before we proceed to item one of our agenda, I will read you a few messages. Laws and draft decisions entered into force on 21 July 2021: Bill amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act. Importers - Maya Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Judicial Power. Importers - Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importers - Maya Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. It's a bill for old people. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. Draft decision on the election of the Temporary Commission to draft the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Importers supposed to Tosko Yordanov and a group of MPs. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2020. . 21 July 2021 Importer "The Commission for Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalata, Burgas. Importers "Albena Varbanova" and a group of MPs. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state and municipal enterprises, companies with more than 50 percent state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last 5 years. Importers - Maya Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs. Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as the investigation of facts and circumstances related to wiretapping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. Colleagues, the bills have not yet been allocated, as there are no committees to do so. At the first possible moment they will be distributed as well as uploaded to the website of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I am obliged to provide you with a reference to the authorities and members of the bodies whose term has expired or was terminated early, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: Election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army The selection of President and Members four of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Election of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council for the Prosecutor's College. Choice of Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The election of inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Election of the Chair and Member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Selection of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. Choice of Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. Reference to the authorities and members of the bodies whose term of office expires during this session for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: The choice of sub-governments of two, of the Bulgarian National Bank, head of management of the Bank and management of the Bank. Election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The election of a judge to the Constitutional Court. Election of the Chair and members of the Board of Fiscal Five, including the Chair. Report on non-constitutional bodies for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the current legislation: Election of Chairman and Members of the National Council for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. On 14 June 2021 an application was received by Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, with which on the basis of art. 34c, para. 6 (1) of the Special Intelligence Means Act has made a request for an early termination of its powers as Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. [[Reply of the National Representative Hristo Ivanov.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to make the following declaration. The meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council will begin shortly, at which will be examined the request for disciplinary proceedings against Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev. This is an extremely important political fact which requires the National Assembly to take note. The fact is that in normal circumstances I would not comment on this topic because it is a fact that it is a procedure that is going before an independent body of the judiciary. However, the Supreme Judicial Council is the body that must guarantee the independence of the judiciary. When we have a composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, which does not guarantee the independence of the judiciary, but is the chief contractor of its appointment, this requires that the other authorities in defence of the Constitution and the Republic do not stand indifferent. In this sense, what I mean is that we have no doubt about the justification of this request and we support the Minister of Justice's actions. We ourselves, as citizens, have wanted this from the Supreme Judicial Council and then it has ignored our arguments in substance, which is why we do not have high expectations that the Supreme Judicial Council will react in a more adequate way this time. What I want to say, and it must be heard in this Chamber, is that when I speak with such certainty that we support and believe it is justified, I mean a specific text which, I think, any person with common sense can answer the question whether it is applicable to Ivan Geshev, and this is the text of the Constitution which introduces as a basis for the release of magistrates, including the actions of the Prosecutor General, reading: I would like to ask you with my hand at heart as Bulgarian citizens and patriots what prestige, what prestige, my God, has the Bulgarian judiciary, especially the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, especially the Prosecutor General, that we have several pronouncements of the European Parliament, honourable Members, specifically for the omission of the Prosecutor General, that Bulgaria is under three monitoring and the last report reminds us again the problem of the non-violence and irresponsibility of the Prosecutor General. I will repeat again what I said yesterday that Bulgaria has become the subject of unprecedented intervention in our sovereignty, above all judicial sovereignty, because judicial sovereignty is the basis of any other sovereignty with the act of Magnite. Yes, that Bulgaria cannot broadcast and fill its quota by European prosecutors that our international arrest warrants and requests for mutual justice co-operation enjoy very low value and respect from our own partners. What prestige, my God?! It's time for us to end this situation. The normal order is for the Supreme Judicial Council to examine this request and to rule on it and to remove Ivan Geshev. We believe that the only thing we can say to the Supreme Judicial Council now is to realise the seriousness of the national interest with which it operates, and we call on it, if they do, to make such proceedings public because of the overwhelming public interest and the importance of what is about to happen. Let everyone see with what arguments one or another decision will be made on these facts. From then on, our actions will be here on this field. From then on, we believe that this situation is another argument for what we announced yesterday. It is time, colleagues, that we all begin an urgent, serious discussion on the necessity which I think is realized by all of us by a deep constitutional change in Bulgarian justice and especially regarding the prosecution. That is why we broadcast associate professor Atanas Slavov, associate professor of constitutional law, person extremely divisive, a person for whom no one can doubt his expertise on these particular topics, as a contact person. We will send you today a written invitation for each parliamentary group to broadcast such a contact person as well. If you wish, in advance, to discuss the organisation of a common public discussion where each parliamentary group will take its position on both the need to reform justice and constitutional reform the status of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office, with which to terminate Ivan Gesev's term of office, and on all other issues relating to justice, which also stand, because this is not the only topic. This one, however, is the sharpest! This one, however, strikes Bulgarian statehood and sovereignty in the heart! And that is why we will not agree that it will be blurry, but we agree that we need to discuss other topics as well. So let's start this debate and let's try to do this nationally responsible work for everyone. Let's find a dialogue on that model where no one will worry that when we finally change Ivan Geshev, and that should happen, no representative of any real or imaginary lobby in Bulgarian politics will be elected in his place. Let's find that model where we can really start restoring trust in Bulgarian justice. It is time for this, and I call on you, and in the meantime we support the acting of the Minister of Justice. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Hadjigenov? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u6	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u7	Mr. Tsonev, come in. Your procedure is from a group? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I also thank my colleague Ivanov for giving us the opportunity to talk about such an important topic with the declaration. Let's start backwards. The DPS Parliamentary Group will participate in any consultation and dialogue on all topics, including judicial reform. We have repeatedly declared that we are for the independence of the judiciary and have proved it with all the amendments to the Constitution recommended by our European partners through the monitoring reports that we have carried out at their request in this House, with the votes of the DPS. We have also taken into account the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and we have incorporated them into our legislation. A number of amendments to the Constitution have been made on the subject of the Court of Justice. "Perhaps, so the most unstable from a legislative and constitutional point of view system that we have made in relation to the monitoring reports. Here, however, two topics are opened. The first of them is.. do we want an independent judiciary, or do we want a dependent judiciary, but not from the Bulgarian state? There is such an example in Romania. Romanian politicians came and told us in a straight text, and there was enough evidence of manipulative removal of uncomfortable politicians from the judiciary. Secondly, if we want to talk about who undermines the prestige of the judiciary, where is the conversation about Lozanne Panov? Didn't he undermine the prestige of the judiciary? . [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Wasn't he and wasn't he politically engaged? Isn't he involved in political forums? Isn't he giving political reports? Isn't he involved in political events? Isn't he a party to the political process despite the explicit ban on... [[Dictionaries from DB: "Eee! "]] Well, well, well! And that's why there's a lot of evidence! [[Laughter]] Well, well, well, and your colleagues are laughing at you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u9	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u10	Let's continue for the "Magnitski" and for the sovereignty of the Bulgarian judiciary. Honorable lawyers, where is the principle of innocence until proven otherwise? Where's the Magnetsky race process? Where are the releases of evidence of guilt? Where's the protection in that branding?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u11	In the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u12	Our partners in the United States can accept whatever laws they want our respect for them, as partners, will continue in the future our partnership with the United States, as our largest NATO partner will continue, and in the future this is our policy. But why and who allows the Bulgarian government to transfer the legislation of the United States to Bulgarian territory when it is not transferred to European territory? Who lets that happen? And now I tell you, we're not gonna stop. Next week we will submit a request for a hearing of the Finance Minister and the Economic Minister for the lists on what basis are they made, on the basis of which Bulgarian law are these lists made on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and so on and so forth? When we are talking about an independent judiciary, you have our partnership and our consent when we talk about reading laws and independence, as the devil reads the Gospel, from the DPS you will have a very serious and firm opponent without any doubt, without any hesitation and without any hypocrisy. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! Yes, we are coming, supporting the opinion of Mr. Hristo Ivanov and the parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria." What is more, we are hard for publicity, maximum publicity at the Supreme Judicial Council meeting. Because when there's no publicity, there are secrets. Secrets give rise to tyranny, what we have lived in for the past 12 years. We won't let that happen! Next, I would like to draw attention to the honourable Mr. Tsonev and the DPS group. Independent justice system! Are you serious?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u15	Yeah, totally.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u16	Yeah, obviously. However, some of us know the judicial system well. We know it from the inside, we know how it works, not from the outside. We are talking about independent justice, ladies and gentlemen, not an independent justice system. Yes, I understand your desire to confuse the paint and the situation, but these are two different things. First of all, the Supreme Judicial Council, as well as the procedure under I'll ask again, are you serious? Rhetorical question, don't answer me. I understand the desire of the Prosecutor-General still Ivan Geshev, I understand the desire of all who support Geshev and the bat he represents is not an instrument of justice, to be brought into the criminal process. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a criminal trial, it is not, and if we are talking about independent justice, it is up to us. And yes, every single political force in the last 32 years has been confusing with its dirty hands in justice with one single goal.... to master the prosecution quite successfully, partially successfully in relation to the court. Partially, thank God, because the sense of normality is precisely due to the failure of the court by politicians. That's something we won't allow. The reason we're here is because we ordinary citizens who were in the squares are justice, and we won't allow it. And we will not let the Supreme Judicial Council in this Chamber continue to do the pigs they did. No, we won't let that happen! We will fight for it and do our best. And yes, we will participate in every debate as a start for judicial reform, and we will make the judicial reform together with each one of those who actually want independent justice in reality. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Any other speeches? There are no requests from the other parliamentary groups. We move on to item one of the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO SELECT A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR WORKING THE PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF FOURTHRIDESTE AND SIX PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers supposed to Tosko Yordanov and a group of MPs on 21 July 2021. Please have one of the importers present the Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Project! DECISION on the election of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of a draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the Forty-sixth National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He set up a Temporary Commission for Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-Sixth National Assembly in a composition of 18 Members of Parliament elected on a Parisian principle by three from each parliamentary group. 2. The Commission shall draw up the draft referred to in paragraph 1. 1 by 27 July 2021 inclusive. 3. Following the submission of the draft under point 1. 1 Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendments and additions to the project within 2 days of its submission. The Commission shall examine and discuss the proposals, draw up and submit an appropriate report. 4. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President: Members: 5. The Commission shall be elected for a period until the final adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-sixth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. You have the floor for speeches on the draft decision. Anyone? I can't see. Voting mode. Please vote. They voted 223 MPs: 223, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please, the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" to give its proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group There is such a people who are members of the Commission we propose Mrs. Iva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva, at the same time we offer her as President of the Commission; Mrs. Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva and Mr. Hristo Mihailov Dochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u21	Mr. Georgiev, I will only correct you that the President of the National Assembly cannot participate in the management of parliamentary committees. However, this is a Temporary Commission, but it is not right, so I ask for another proposal for the President of the Commission. There is a text in the Rules of Procedure in force.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u22	Then I propose as President of the Commission Mrs. Victoria Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u23	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u24	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we propose Mr. Dimitar Glauchev; Mrs. Anna Alexandrova and Mr. Hristo Gajev as Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, I propose Philip Popov, Todor Baychev and Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u27	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of "Democratic Bulgaria" for participation in the Commission I propose associate Professor Atanas Slavov; Dimitar Syarov and Nadezhda Yordanova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u29	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament, I propose Mr. Yordan Tsonev; Mr. Hamid Hamid and Halil Letifov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u31	Thank you. Get up! Get up! Get up! Get up! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u32	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose Maria Kapon; Rumen Yonchev and Meglena Guncheva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u33	Thank you. All the proposals have been made. Only one Member of the Parliament has been proposed for the chair, so we can proceed to the vote on the proposals so made. Vote 218 MPs: for 218 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item two of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON NON-CONFICIOUS ACTIONS AND INDEPENDENCES OF THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF THE LESOPACK TERRITORY IN THE RADIO OF THE CHUKALIA, gr. BURGAS. Please provide some of the importers with the project. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! The decision we offer to your attention reads as follows: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning unlawful acts and omissions of the competent authorities in the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalaya, gr. Burgas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of facts and circumstances concerning (a) the actions and omissions of the competent authorities, which should have detected, ceased operation and removed illegal constructions and sites in the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalata, the city of Burgas, including on the coastal strip and its adjacent aquatoria, as well as to seek the responsibility of the persons responsible for it; (b) the actions and omissions of staff of the National Security Service on 7 July 2020 on the territory of Lesopark "Rosenets" in the area of Cape Chukalata, Burgas, and the subsequent actions to seek responsibility of the guilty officials; (c) the actions and omissions of the competent authorities in and on the occasion of a peaceful protest against the lawlessness of the country, declared on 11 July 2020 under the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifestations. 2. The temporary committee shall hear representatives of the competent authorities of government and local self-government, collect information and documents to establish the facts and circumstances of the matter. 1. 3. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. 4. Selects the Management and Composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chair; Vice-President; Members. 5. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months. Colleagues, the establishment of this committee was...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u35	Mr. Ivanov, let me give you the floor for debate. To open the debate, first. Now you just presented the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u36	I'm opening the debate. I'm asking for a statement. Are you the first, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u37	When I'm biting, let's move on. Thank you, Madam President. The temporary commission for the whole complex of facts and events around. "Rosenets" was expected with great excitement, including by colleagues from GERB, and I hope now that they will support its creation. It is very easy to predict a nagging with one particular person the Honorable Chairman of the DPS, who has retired to a humble fork and looks at bio-beautifuls. It is very easy to predict in this attempt to return to an event that a year ago attracted great public attention and now try to reheat all of this. However, what we are trying to put to the attention of Parliament and the Bulgarian public is another question: the question of the actions and omissions of the Bulgarian institutions, which have allowed for years, years, the emergence of an enclave in Bulgarian legality, or as I said just now, in the Bulgarian judicial and legal sovereignty. This enclave, by the way, does not only include the villa of the honorary Doctor Dogan, it also includes questions related to the oil port. The relationship between them is at the very beginning of this mansion, provided that at some point the oil giant..Lukoil................................ is decided to alienate the most beautiful part of his territory there and eventually enter the use of Dr. Dogan. These are very important questions. The Genesis of this entire territory is an epicrisis of the state of the Bulgarian state. By the way, Mr. Tsonev, you just said something that the question is whether the independence of the judiciary will be guaranteed by the Bulgarian state or not. This is very important, but it is also important whether the Bulgarian state will guarantee understanding as a republic, public or deep state. And because the fact is that the members of the deep state, of the parallel power to exclude the application of the law, to provide the assistance of Bulgarian institutions, to ensure the closing of the eyes of the prosecution, to ensure that this really worthy of Ilf and Petrov fact in Bulgaria can be built a yacht port, which is claimed to be, firstly, that the 80s have arisen, given that there are pictures showing how it is built 2016, 2017, 2018, and to register it as land property because it cannot have private ownership in the sea, it is really remarkable achievement of parallel power. And the question here is not about these irregularities in themselves, because in Bulgaria, the spatial problems can be seen at every angle. You go to every block and you see problems with the implementation of the urban legislation is not the subject. The theme is: why is it possible for certain people to rule out the law? This is a plague that poisons Bulgarian legality in a very broad plan, it concerns a lot of people and many people benefit from it, part of them and we all pay; in fact we all pay a huge price for this condition. But its root is the political opportunity in Bulgaria for some to apply the law and for others not to open their eyes to some and not to others. Its root is political and its root begins here, as a fellow Member said yesterday. This is where it starts! And Rosenets is precisely the epicrisis of this condition. This is an opportunity for a moment of truth, to clarify the question why Bulgarian institutions closed their eyes, why Bulgarian institutions served certain people, including the Ministry of Interior. Including the Ministry of Interior, yes! And let this be clarified by the committee, Mr. Marinov, let us. Let us make it clear why the Ministry of Interior opposed a legitimate protest, let all this be clarified within the committee. We really want to give the opportunity for a moment of truth on this important subject and so that there is no feeling of any unnecessary politicisation, I will not be a member of the committee so that we can really look at these facts outside, at least at the leadership level, overpoliticisation. Let's get to the truth, whatever it is. I think it's worth it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u39	Thank you, Madam President, for your opportunity. Mr. Ivanov, let us be clear because you have addressed the question of the independence of the judiciary in terms of my speech. When we talk about independence of the judiciary, when we talk at all about political processes, which most likely by what you are referring to, affect certain phenomena in the Bulgarian society, me and in our exhibition, and now I will say, we are also......... to reveal facts and circumstances, but we are against hypocrisy, Mr. Ivanov, and we want from this tribune to state it clearly. It's hypocritical when you talk about certain things, and what you accuse certain people of, you exclude others who have obviously done it. So we're going to propose, I say again, and when it comes to independence of the judiciary, it's hypocrisy to talk about a magistrate, and not to talk about others, hypocrisy is to cover up some of the truth about addictions, and to try to direct public attention to other dependencies that you think exist. We from this tribune will fight against this hypocrisy, which clearly directs the processes in one direction and not in the right direction, in their entirety. And that is why we are going to propose here that my colleague will propose, extending the scope of this committee and with other cases that are also obvious, where there are actions and without the needs of the authorities, also under the Law on Structure of the Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! In relation to what Mr Tsonev also said and in relation to the proposal of fellow MPs for the establishment of the Temporary Commission, we of the Parliamentary Group of............................... the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.............................................. are proposing to extend the scope of this temporary committee........................................................................................................................................................ On this subject, honourable Members, we from the Parliamentary Group of "Action for Rights and Freedoms" have had a question to the Minister of Environment and Water in the last days of the 44th Parliament. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer to the questions we asked, and one of the questions was whether it was true on the last day of Ivan Kostov's reign on 23 July 2001, then Minister of Environment and Water Evdokia Maneva issued an order that changed the status in Zone 2 allowing construction in this protected area. We did not receive any answers as to whether there was damage caused as a whole to the environment and nature in the Budzhaka Peninsula in Sozopol municipality. We received an answer, unfortunately, almost in defence of a political OPG in Bulgaria and in defence of a well-known oligarch from all of us. And to be as precise as possible, from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose: 1. Within the scope of the Temporary Commission, we should include the Management Plan of the protected territory of Kolokita (Kolokita) in the Budzhaka peninsula, which falls within the territorial scope of Sozopol municipality. The Commission should check and establish which government, when and why it changes the Management Plan in the protected territory................................................................................................. 2. The Commission should establish all the facts and circumstances surrounding the legality of the construction in Zone 2, which covers the Budzhaka peninsula and falls within the territorial scope of the Sozopol municipality, and Zone 1, which is fully protected territory and covers the fjords and rocks of the protected territory. 3. The Temporary Commission shall establish all facts and circumstances concerning the unlawfulness and actions and the inactions of the competent authorities on the territory of the Budzhaka peninsula within the territorial scope of the Sozopol municipality. 4. The Commission to determine whether fecal waters are being poured from the house. Property of Ivo Prokopiev, to the fjords and beach in the Bay of Paradise. [[Noise and laughter.]] Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u43	These are all the answers we from the parliamentary group are looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u44	Mr. Ali, may I have your offer? Thank you. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems that there will be entertainment in the 46th National Assembly after we have heard about the fjords and the fecal waters of Ivo Prokopiev. How was it that you were kind to miss the white horse that rides Vasil Bozhkov, because we should definitely mention him as well? What do we do with his feces, even though he's in Dubai? [[Noise and lines.]] Isn't that an important question? If we have to get serious, the idea of this whole thing is obvious: it is to smear the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't pass. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u46	There's no hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u47	There's no hypocrisy. Mr. Tsonev, it is my pleasure to draw your attention to the fact that you are part of the people who left dirty fingerprints. Not you personally. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u48	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u49	Your dirty prints on justice... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u50	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u51	...in the last 30 years, Mr. Tsonev. Not you personally. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u52	Mr. Hadjigenov, you went out to make...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u53	Please excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u54	You went out to make a line for Mr. Ali, and you went to speak to Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u55	Please excuse me, Madam President, a misunderstanding. [[Heckling]] I believe that such attempts are not serious and should not be paid attention to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u56	Thank you. Second line? You're giving up. For the back, Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Hadjigenov, the truth seems to hurt. This is the political hypocrisy Mr. Tsonev was talking about earlier. Let's measure with the same arsin. Let the committee do its job and all the facts and circumstances surrounding this topic, which I have put on behalf of the parliamentary group, come out. I don't see what the problem is. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u58	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, what about you? You've already made your point. You have no right to rule twice. [[Heckling]] He spoke once in the beginning. The debate started with him, I think. The debate started with you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u59	What about a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u60	It's over, and it's over, and this procedure is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u61	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u62	In the manner of conduct, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u63	Madam President, I don't think you understood Mr. Ivanov very well. He spoke, but then on his behalf. Now he wants to speak on behalf of his mentor Mr. Prokopiev. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u64	Mr. Hamid, that wasn't the way to lead. Please follow the rules! A statement? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! I see you're enjoying the DPS, but we have a proposal for you. If you would like to set up a committee for Bujaka, for any protected zone, please do so in the official way with a proposal as a separate committee. [[DPS lines.]] No, no, no! Not in Rosenets.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u66	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u67	And now I'm going to tell you why we want a separate committee only for the Rosenets. Because you in DPS and you in GERB collected the model Dogan Borisov. What is happening in the Rosenets shows the following: how the institutions do not work, and one person - the Honorable President of the DPS - has taken over the Bulgarian coast. That's what we want this committee to investigate. That's one of the things we want her to investigate. We want to show how the Burgas mayor, who is from GERB, stood helpless while police and prosecutors were outlawed on 11 July a year ago. If you remember what happened there, colleagues. An attempt was made to have a clash between Bulgarians and Turks. But instead of doing that, and instead of interfering with our access to the beach where we wanted to go, we sang the anthem together and it didn't work out for you. The other reason we want this committee right now, fellow Members, is the actions of the NSO and the Ministry of Interior. This right here is the Bulgarian coast. [[Shows picture.]] Do you see him, colleagues, from the DPS? And here's the Bulgarian officer from NSO.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u68	But he's at work. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u69	Do you know what he was doing with the Bulgarian flag? [[Noise and lines.]] This NSO officer throws the Bulgarian flag into the ditch. And while we're trying to investigate this, you're talking to me about some businessman's feces. That's not gonna happen! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] No, no, no! Rosenets is going to be a separate committee, and you can make a proposal that you like to investigate all protected areas in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u70	Thank you. A line? Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! You still don't want to understand what we're saying. Nothing! You have no interest in understanding it, but we will be insistent. The theme is actions and omissions in your opinion of the authorities in the interests of people who exercise some power. Am I understanding you correctly? The media tycoon, media monopoly and oligarch Ivo Prokopiev has exercised serious power in the last 25 years in Bulgaria and this is no secret to anyone. It is no secret his political engineering over several governments, including your political project. Its almost 20 ministers in the three governments of Borisov are no secret, and we will prove it. We're not going to say: we're saying that, and we're going to prove it every day from here on because it was our fault that we didn't pick it up every day, and we didn't pull out the evidence we had. Now we're gonna do it. Since you claim that this commission will investigate this particular problem, are there actions and omissions of the Bulgarian authorities towards the deep state? I say that the most emblematic example of the deep country in Bulgaria is named Ivo Prokopiev. [[Applause from DPS.]] We DPS say it, and we'll prove it. Therefore, in the subject matter of this committee, and not in a separate committee, we need to see how the deep state, in your opinion, influenced these processes; has it closed its eyes; has it helped, what it has done? Here, we agree to establish the truth, but again we say, without hypocrisy, about all those who have influence on the media monopoly, about the political engineers, about those who hold the international network of Soros, its Bulgarian options here, its Bulgarian organizations. For them. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, straight text. You may not like it, you can say whatever you want. We'll talk about it. And one more thing about Rosenets. You know, or you turn a blind eye to the fact that on this side of the protest, on the sea, it was you who were peaceful citizens, politicians and so on, and on the other side of the barrier were the football players. Did you know that... [[DB lines.]] Excuse me? Excuse me? But we have evidence. We'll even tell you which one was there. Even in the course of the commission's work we will tell you which Bulgarian oligarch sent this campaign there. Yes, and the actions of the Ministry of Interior, and the actions of the NSA, which, by the way, in your favorite language, I use for a reason... I don't know it in Turkish, or I'll say it. ...is led by the President of the Republic. [[Reply.]] [[Laughter]] It would be good to ask Mr. President: these people from the service who obey him, why did they insult the Bulgarian flag, who ordered them to do so? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm not saying the president ordered it. I'm saying it's not us. So let's investigate everything. We're for it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u73	Mr. Tsonev, we agree that the facts presented by you should be investigated, that they be brought to light if you have them. We just think that procedurally it's not very appropriate to pack together. Because otherwise we have to pack all the protected areas and all the doubts about politically empowered individuals who, in one way or another, will become a mega committee. From this point of view, we believe that this would actually be an experience on your part, speaking of hypocrisy, drowning the process. In Shakespeare's language, which really is my favorite, along with Pushkin's language, there is a parliamentary term filibuster. I don't know, you as an experienced parliamentarians might know in Bulgarian how to translate this thing, I don't know, but this is the attempt by procedural catch to kill a solution. That's what you're doing right now. If we want there to be no hypocrisy, here I tell you to take, if you want all the protected zones, if you want Bujaka, collect signatures for a committee and we will vote for. However, because "Rosenets" - as you yourself said - is a complex of issues related to both the activities of the Ministry of Interior and the NSO - I agree with what you said - is "If you have proof of it, we will be very interested to learn it, let us leave this committee viable, Mr. Tsonev. Perhaps you will even be able to protect the name of your Honorable President, if you are actually fighting hypocrisy, let us not kill her. Do for Bujaka we will vote for. Here is a way for us not to have hypocrisy and to do the work, but let us not do filibuster or as you will suggest to hold in our common favorite language of Vazov and Paisiy. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u75	I'm very glad we're talking about hypocrisy. Finally, this topic came here, where it belongs, especially with "Yes, Bulgaria!" [[Reply of National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u76	Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u77	The place is in this committee, not in a separate committee, and the argument that this will become a mega commission that this will silence the other is not a serious argument. Because if it were essential, Maya Manolova's audit committee is super, hyper, mega. However, you vote it throughout its scope, and now you will do it again. So that's not an argument. This is about investigating the same theme, according to you, not in my opinion, the actions of the deep state, the influence on the authorities and their actions or omissions! I gave you an argument, our colleague from our parliamentary group too. I believe that the argument that one will silence the other is not meaningful and is once again a manifestation of hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! And as the Honorary Chairman of the DPS likes to say: "Yes, yes, well!" Ashkolsun, Mr. Tsonev! [[(Laughter and a line from GERB-SDS: It was to you.]] But there will not be two objectives in one committee because the Committee "Rosenets" is a big topic. One year and two weeks ago, Bulgarian citizens released the beach of Rosenets, made the Bulgarian beach free, placed the Bulgarian flag where it had a worthy place. Nothing like this has happened in the places you're talking about. Rosenets is an unprecedented symbol of what a conquered state means, what a territory means, where there is overlaw, what institutions that have been acquired and conquered for years have watched this saray and how this 200-meter marina is built. Apropo, this phenomenon cannot be investigated if there is no special committee to determine how the Bulgarian institutions claim that this pier is from the 1980s and satellite images show that it has been built and extended for the last four years. According to the Bulgarian institutions, this pier is also a land estate in the water, for it there are no documents, which is why the DNCC cannot decide what this construction is to begin procedures. A phenomenal situation that requires precisely this special committee. Yeah, the DPS tightens them up there. Yes, I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Karadayi here, who, when our campaigns met in Sarnitsa, said that we from "Democratic Bulgaria" are pouring salt into your coffee. No, we're not putting salt in your coffee. Perhaps we are pouring salt into the wound, into your long positions in energy, at the TPP, in the Cold Reserve and so on, for which there will also be separate committees, so as not to mention that someone here is hypocritical. So I call on my fellow Members in this House, do not please the Rachat of the DPS, there must be a separate committee... Rosenets.... which will really unravel the lack of statehood in this enclave. Because Rosenets is a special symbol for Bulgarian citizens as well as for Bulgarian citizens who were beyond the gate that closed this property and who were inside. For all Bulgarian citizens who sang together the anthem and asked for this coast to be free, this committee should be a special committee and should not be muffled by other topics. And yes, collect the necessary signatures, make a commission for Bujaka, and we will participate in it, but do not blurt out the committee. Because these aren't just greenhouses for organic tomatoes and cucumbers. "Rosenets" is the point from which Bulgaria began to change, the point where Bulgarian citizens said: "Enough! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bikov, come in for a statement. [[From the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's alternate the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u81	Mrs. Chairman, I'm getting goosebumps from this argument. I have a feeling that Mayakovsky will be out here in a few minutes to make a speech, and it's all become so dramatic. We will support both proposals, we even have a third one, which will make it informal for you What is happening today, to say it in a simple language, is this. This is the first fig leaf that will have to hide the support that DPS colleagues will give for your management, only it will not hide it. It's not that easy! You will need a whole bouquet of fig leaves now to collect, at least 10 more committees, plus several more such pathetic scandals to explain to your voters how suddenly the parties of change of three have become five, because while here you are arguing so harshly, you will go to consultations in a few moments to consult there. Because it was already acceptable to consult, and until three days ago it was not acceptable. So now you're the status quo. We were the parties of the status quo, now there is a new status quo. We are the party of change, and you are all here a party of status quo. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB-SDS.]] Because there's a new status quo. [[(Laughter at GERB-SDS and yelling: Bravo! Bravo! {\\cHFFFFFF}{\\cH00FF00}]] Thank you. That's funny, guys! Here is a date during which Bulgaria broke down, and the trajectory went elsewhere. There are very important dates in our history. You're going there to a fair last summer, to remind you of those people from NTAC, who here you show and the pictures they're still there, you know? But ask your president! Ask your president about it! Ask your caretaker government about this! Don't ask us! And the DPS is calling out to you, and Prokopiev is with you. We've become a universal culprit here. It's funny and funny to us, of course, because we know what's going on back there. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS]] . We know what's going on out there, and that's not gonna hide it. Do 40 more debates about the Rosenets, you will see what will happen in a few days. Because there, on this dashboard, you can see no matter how much debate you make, you can't make a single decision without your colleagues from the DPS. So be honest with the people and tell them we will seek support from the DPS and BSP, start to behave culturally, build a coalition culture and manage the country by taking responsibility, not by making jokes and here with some pathos explaining how much you hate each other, and then you will actually go to consultations together. Don't, it won't save you! You'd better come out honest! Rosenets is a Rosenets, let there, if you want a commission there, it doesn't matter at all. But I'm still telling you this won't help you hide from the eyes of the people who trusted you. Therefore, in order to continue to believe you, tell them honestly and clearly we changed our position a little bit! The others, they were confused, we will take them for consultations. [[Laughter at GERB]] And we'll watch the game with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u82	Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u83	And as he says, Mr. Dogan: Good luck to you! [[Radio and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u85	Mr. Bikov, you forgot your notes. I'll keep them as a valuable document. [[strong noise, laughter and applause by ICN, IBGNI, DB]] I always listen to your speeches with a lot of attention. You as a transfer player from our field to the field of GERB are valuable, where you are called, at least for two communities, and I understand that what you are talking about, including from behind, comes, how can I say, from a deep painful experience, conscious. [[Loud noise, laughter and applause by IBBNI, ICN, DB.]] We have carefully followed the history of GERB governments, and when you are calling us honestly to come out and tell us about our intentions, I see in this awareness what has brought you to this awareness now, so you must be a party to change, that is, the return, right? It's not gonna happen going back, but because we're really very careful in your story how you were gonna push the barbecue, not you, you weren't there then, but you were gonna push the barbecue. This was Boyko Borisov's moment, remember? Let's not laugh so much on the beach!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u86	They pushed him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u87	I don't know if he got knocked over by a barbecue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u88	He's been pushed!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u89	Well done. Bravo! Barbecue's been pushed! But that was the seblimation moment. Then Mayakovsky didn't come, I don't know why, but anyway we've made a conclusion. Since you say you can see it on the dashboard, do you know what you're going to see on the dashboard? You will vote with the DPS to extend the scope of the committee if I understand your speech correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u90	We'll support yours as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u91	Nothing. You'll support ours, but you'll support theirs. [[GERB lines.]] Nothing. You can see it on the dashboard. [[Applause from IBBNI, ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Hamid, are you speaking? No. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u93	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, now that you say we were in the same field, we really were in the same field, I don't know what the field was, though. Because one time we were in the same government, it was the government of Boyko Borisov I was an advisor there, you were a minister. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And Deputy Prime Minister, you were in the last one. Of course, this field had a hard time plowing. None of us have said that the demolition of Dogan's barbecue has changed the trajectory of the development of the Bulgarian nation. Right? It would be funny if we said it! It is just as funny your, how can I put it, an eccentric attitude towards a protest by the Rosenets, who had changed everything. It's in your heads, keep that in mind! There are a lot of people who have already forgotten it even happened. That you have such a religious attitude towards this subject and have made it a place of worship and martyrdom for some people who some policemen pulled them and rolled them over the dust and sand, for us it was rather strange. It's obviously a higher form of spirituality to you, not to us. We will support both proposals because we treat you as our children and we cannot share you. [[Laughter]] We are good people, and on this subject we will even broadcast colleagues who will participate in the committee. But I'm still telling you, it's strange to debate so long and so fiercely on this subject, given that you have great challenges ahead of you. It's the least you can do. You will enter to rule the state, and in some very serious and very critical moments. Waste of time in such celebrations as you do here, I think it will be at your expense, but also at the expense of the Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u95	I don't have my notes. [[Laughter, comments from GERB-SDS.]] Christo stole my notes. [[Laughter and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u96	Mr. Bikov, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Zarkov, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from BSP are not at all funny what is happening here, because while each group is enjoying the wits of its speaker, in fact the most common thing that has happened in the last 15 minutes brings us back to the whole transition. I will tell you in two words what this is, namely, when there is an attack on someone's integrity, the answer is not that you are wrong, but yours are the same, and each time this spiral leads to the next banter. And each time it finally comes to the stand where some people accuse themselves of hypocrisy or point to oligarchs, but always to the others, to get to a committee made for one thing, but who also deals with something else so that nothing can be done. And that's been happening for 30 years! If there is any change that is being talked about here, it is not exactly the question of which parties will be packed and how many analysts will discuss who is with whom, but the question is whether we can avoid this spiral. There's another danger. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, here we are called to defend the interests of the people, of our constituents, and not of one person, who we consider particularly important, regardless of whether he is an honorary president or another close figure, and because the Bulgarian Parliament tends to be emptied by the leaders, ladies and gentlemen, because most of them are fleeing to become a group of people who protect someone else. If you think this is the task of the forty-sixth parliament, you are frankly mistaken! This game will end as it always ends with a poor score to everyone! In this order of thought we offer you another approach from the BSP parliamentary group. "Democratic Bulgaria" has their initiative and we will support it. You, respectable of the DPS, have another initiative. Bring it in and we'll back it up, but don't mess up the game! And, honourable colleagues of GERB, between these two initiatives there is something common about all these outrage, if there are them, have happened during your time, so do not have fun too! [[Applause from IHN and BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will support the draft decision the way it was submitted. We'll support your project when you bring it in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u99	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, real, deep and serious is your statement and I agree with it. However, this is not about protecting one person, albeit with historical merit for Bulgarian democracy, nor is it about blaming another person to protect someone, but it is about exactly what you are talking about. It's about the whole transition being played the same game and we're trying to reveal it now a little bit brighter, because our mistake is that we haven't revealed it yet bright enough. The game is as follows: first, the game is stand up to sit under the mask of change and democracy. This game in our time began in the last parliament with the division of parties parties to the protest, the change of status quo. From this game you were most affected because at least you in the last parliament were not a party to the status quo. In order not to talk about DPS and our declarations, about our positions, in order to be as real as possible, I will talk to an example for you. This game is stand up to sit down throughout the transition a media monopoly accuses another of media monopoly because it interferes with it, political engineers accuse others of what they do. And now this trial is going on. By the way, IHN has suffered completely undeservedly. And now is the process that I sum up with hypocrisy. It's hypocritical because we're not telling the truth, we're not looking for the real change, but under the mask of change we're looking for a sit-down. It's hypocrite and what we're offered in the justice system. She needs reform, she needs independence, she needs a lot of things, and we want to participate in this process, but what we are offered is to sit down. It's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Another line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, if you remember, we have been talking about hypocrisy since the last parliament. However, this hypocrisy is increasingly escalating. While Mr. Bikov is changing Mr. Tsonev to rest, I would like to remind you and all the other Bulgarian citizens who are now looking at us that all of what you are talking about happened during the management of the gentlemen of GERB and all this symbiosis that exists between BSP, between DPS and between GERB is also seen by an airplane... [[noise and lines]] [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u102	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u103	I didn't make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u104	Dear Mr. Tsonev, if you wanted...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u105	Mr. Tsonev made a line, and you replicated Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u106	I have a line about Bodjaka, and about that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u107	You can't have a line about Bodjaca. You may have a statement about Bodjaka.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u108	All right, for a statement, Madam President. [[(Noise and lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u109	But let's finish the previous procedure and I'll give you the floor. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Learn the Rules of Procedure"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u110	We'll learn. We apologize for the confusion we've created. Mr. Zarkov, thank you for your support and for what you said, because there is really an attempt to turn everything upside down. However, allow me to say that Mr. Bikov is not my father, because it is important that we clarify this. And from this point of view, fathers here will clear up on the dashboard and see how you will vote together. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u112	Mrs. Chairman! Dear replicators, thank you for the line that gives me the opportunity to tell you how I and the BSP parliamentary group understand this act for this committee, and in fact in this way to agree in part with both of these. Are there areas in Bulgaria where there is no right? There is! Are there any people who are actually outlawed? There is! Are there people who have been put outside the law because of their political influence? There is! It seems to be such a thing, so it deserves parliamentary attention, and I agree with the importers here. What I don't agree with them is that they called it unprecedented, and unfortunately, they didn't. There are many others, because for years Bulgaria has been breaking down and people have been taking advantage of their connections, contacts, parliamentary groups, institutional burdens, snatching whole pieces of this territory. There are those who are very famous, and there are those who are not very famous, but who have areas where they do what they want and the Bulgarian citizens receive proof of this every single day. This has to end! If this is a step in the right direction, we support it. If there are others to be done, they must be done. And stop fighting so much about what it's gonna be and how it's gonna be on the dashboard! The Bulgarian citizen defined this parliament as it is and on the tray will write all sorts of combinations. But in the end, after all these combinations, there will be a result and it will show very clearly whether there has been a change or not. BSP was in the Forty-fourth, in the Forty-Fiveth and in the Forty-Sixth authentic change party, and whether you admit it or not is your problem, but we will prove it every single day! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Naydenov had made a statement. You're giving up. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u114	Hello! Yes, time is short, but it's important, and we need to clarify something. The Bulgarian Black Sea coast has been severely vexed over the past 20 years. I can mention many other places, and if we put them all together, this committee won't be able to do the job of three, but six months. I don't think that's essential. Here, let's stay on this subject and set up a separate committee, which I agree with. We can talk about what happened to Kamchiski Sands and the disappearance of the status there, we can talk about what happened to Alephu, Kaliakra and why there was a criminal procedure against Bulgaria and a judgment by the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. There are many topics related to the Black Sea coast. Let's not mix these things up. There's no point in prolonging time in my opinion. Let's finish with one vote. I think it's made sense who voted. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u115	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u116	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In order to put a final lid on this conversation, I would like to say that the voters of the second multi-mandated electoral region in the city of Burgas have replaced me with a mandate not to allow the topic "Rosenets" to be replaced. This is not a conversation about the Law on Construction, this is not a conversation about which media oligarch where there is a house. We are talking here about corruption, corruption, which has recently been seen from 8,000 km away, but for 30 years has not been seen by our home and own institutions, but has been under our noses. This is not just about illegal construction in Lesopark, it is about how a former president, currently the Honorary President of the DPS, has acquired ownership of land property in the Black Sea aquatory without any real legal basis. So we're not talking about illegal construction here, we're talking about someone who acquired property in the Black Sea aquarium without any prior documents! We are talking here, honourable Members, about corruption, and this subject cannot just be replaced by anything else being sewn to it. I hear they're calling colleagues to the gym. They will have their opportunities to speak, of course. We welcome the formation of any committees to investigate irregularities that have occurred in Bulgaria, but I would like to say: there are MPs here who, in their words, have been present in this Parliament for 25 years. I don't think that's a reason to be proud. For these 25 years, Bulgaria is what it is today in the first place in corruption, in the first place in poverty and in the last place in freedom of the media. If we are talking about parties on the status quo, the Bulgarian voter has determined very precisely who these parties are on the status quo. The parties of the status quo are the ones who anchored Bulgaria in this place. Again: first on corruption, first on poverty in the European Union and last on freedom of the media. This is the dividing line, ladies and gentlemen, which puts on one side the parties of the status quo and the parties of change. Which will be these parties will be shown precisely by our actions from now on, but let the representatives of parties and political formations that have defined the policies in the last 30 years not try to look like some bearers of change, because the Bulgarian voter has shown them that this does not accept it. I will not waste any more of the National Assembly's time with this statement. Thank you for your attention and I expect support for the Committee "Rosenets." [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u118	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm going to start where Mr. Dimitar Naydenov ended up, namely for wasting time. And I turn to you, Mr. Naydenov: why are you wasting our time? Why do you claim to be a change and not a replacement, when you yourself, as a councillor, voted for this outrage? [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and GERB-SDS.]] Is this the new face of the protest the people who, once, support the DPS, the people who, the second time, receive support from the DPS and eventually turn out to be the most ordinary ingrates, while political ingrates? [[Applause from BSP and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. For a second line? I won't. For the coat, Mr. Naydenov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u120	Let me just explain the joke of my vote as municipal councilman regarding Dogan's street. It is precisely because of the lie of the mayor of GERB here for the colleagues who are grinning who managed to mislead, note the figure, forty-two municipal councillors - forty-two - I will not explain the details, but I would like to say that the mistake and the lie shined the very next day. [[Noise and lines.]] Of these forty-two advisors before you, you see the only one who immediately made public the lie, took responsibility for his decision, apologized to his constituents for allowing him to be misled, and committed to correct the mistake committed by both 40 municipal councilmen. [[noise and lines]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that you are facing the only one of these forty-two people who has done so to this day. I have a colleague at the municipal council, Mr. Tabakov, and I will give him the opportunity to mention it by name, he has witnessed that so far none of these forty-two have apologized or taken any action. And it was I who, in my capacity as this man, took all the action that led to the release of the beach, to the preservation of the street. I am absolutely sure that fellow MPs in the Forty-sixth National Assembly that the mayor of Burgas and also those people behind him wish they had not misled me, because thanks to this momentary error I can now say that the distribution in the forty-sixth Parliament is exactly what it is. I hope that if anyone has any specific questions for me, not from the stands necessarily, in a private conversation I can give them very detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. For a statement? Mr. Dilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! We're witnessing a string of heroism. I would like to say that we are about to turn Mr. Hristo Ivanov's landing on the beach in Rosenets. In a more significant event than the landing of Hristo Botev near Kozloduy. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, any change needs its myths. They're important, they're national-forming, they're country-creating. We actually live in myths. However, the question, insofar as I have been able to navigate, is the Committee on "Rosenets" whether to expand its content or to remain a very practical and pragmatic committee dealing with actions and omissions of official bodies and with urban planning, as far as I can understand. And this question is really more complicated than it seems to us here, because in many words we bend the question: is Mr. Dogan entitled to have a villa in the equator of the former Ottoman Empire, or does he have no right? And therefore my colleagues from GERB-SDS ask the question: is Mr. Dogan entitled to participate in the creation of another Bulgarian government, as he has participated in the creation of all previous Bulgarian governments? [[DPS lines.]] Yeah... Remind me. I don't think you were directly involved in Mr. Ivan Kostov's government alone. And he, for his gratitude, allowed Mr. Dogan to build a villa, because that's when this construction started. This question is actually much bigger and it is very good that we are asking it in this building, which is located on a Turkish cemetery. You know? This question is from the early Middle Ages. Why is it still that King Marko eventually died fighting on the side of the Turks, and why is it that the DPS eventually participated in the creation of a next Bulgarian government? Well quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, we have 350 000 more, so many Bulgarian Turks vote, and they are quite real because they are more cohesive than us, because they are smarter than us, they participate in the creation of every Bulgarian government, so this topic cannot be extended, Mr. Ivanov. We will not be able to keep it only around the area of your personal heroism with the landing of the beach. It will just be wider and from now on it will see into everything we do. What will be the role of the DPS in the Forty-Sixth Common National Assembly and what will it be in the next Bulgarian government? This is the conversation we must have without hypocrisy. And even if I tell you, I feel a little relieved because there are no Patriots who would burden this conversation with a lot of volt rainbows. It's a calm and rational conversation. Mr. Dogan is undoubtedly one of the most remarkable and noticeable figures in the Bulgarian transition, with enormous merit, probably with huge merit for bad things. That's the question?! What are we going around in 7/8 bars around it? He's the question: what are we doing with Mr. Dogan? Not with his villa, but with the extraordinary influence that the DPS has and which we are again demonstrating to both ourselves and the TV viewers, dealing for an hour and a half with this topic. That is why my proposal, with which I conclude my speech, is to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Honourable Members, I suggest you do not participate in the vote of this committee, just do not participate. And this is a question to which GERB has rightly noted, Mr. Hristo Ivanov, have answered in the past government and have paid the price for it, and continue to pay it. Now that question is put to you gentlemen on the right, you must answer it, so the decision on this committee is yours. We will be happy to participate in it, but I suggest you, colleagues, do not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u123	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. For lines? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u124	Rather, this question is related to Mr. Dilov's statement. You said that DPS was involved in the formation of all previous Bulgarian governments with one exception. Does this mean that you officially acknowledge that DPS was involved in the formation of all three governments of Borisov and GERB? Do you officially admit it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u125	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u126	Mr. Dilov, it's wonderful that you're trying to unite some people again under some hat that's in your head. And I want to thank you, because who else, if you can't do something like that, given your life experience as a political butterfly in any party. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u127	Mr. Yordanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u128	Knowing your past, I expect you to land by the end of this parliament or in the Democratic Bulgaria. We're coming! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u129	For a third line? I won't. Mr. Dilov, for the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u130	Thanks for the attitude, guys. It's important that there's no indifference. I cannot officially answer the question you are asking me, I can answer as a journalist and an observer. Yeah, apparently the DPS was involved in the three governments. Yes, obviously the DPS is also currently representing important agencies in whole sectors. Don't make me embarrass you and tell you who they are. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And there's nothing wrong with that, there's no drama. I don't see what the drama is.! Since you all speak against hypocrisy, I suggest you stop this hypocrisy. We have nearly half a million Bulgarian Turks we love, we live with them, with whom we celebrate Kurban Bayram at the moment, and we hope that they will invite us to eat lamb, yes, that is normal. Just why are we hiding it and why are we masking it? And this whole conversation revolves around one name and it is Mr. Dogan's name with all the good and bad that it brings, as every Bulgarian politician does. Mr. Yordanov, Mr. Toshko, I have never appeared in any other way in elections, except as a representative of the George Day, which you were also the founder of. Never! Just check it out. I have never participated in this Parliament as a representative of another political party. I've always represented George's day. That's the theme. I don't unite anyone, I mean, I don't put anyone under a hat. Behind me is the result of this hat. Here are those people that were arranged here, they were produced with a single vote that we saw yesterday. What hat should I wear? All Bulgarians saw how the presidency of the Bulgarian Parliament was elected at the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Moreover, all Bulgarians will see how the next Bulgarian government will be elected, and it will quite logically happen with the help of the DPS, because it simply will not be chosen otherwise, right?! I'm not very good at arithmetic, but the voices don't come out. So I don't put anyone under any hat and I don't see anything embarrassing about it, let's face it. Mr. Zarkov made a wonderful call to stop hypocrisy. Yeah, that's the big question. The role of the DPS and the role of Mr. Dogan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u131	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u132	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! So far, we have understood many things because of the committee. We figured out who the change is, who the replacement is, we figured out who the parties of the protest are, who the parties of the untest, who the status quo is, who they intend to be now the status quo. We have understood Mr. Dogan's inner depths, what Mr. Prokopiev is like, for Mr. Borisov I don't know why no one remembers. At all, we have learned so much about the proposal of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria to have just one commission to investigate the case. You've turned your whole political life upside down for a committee, remembering everything, trying to figure out who's gonna vote, how they're gonna run. But you're unique. You've really been doing this for 30 years. We were bad dudes, but now we're gonna mess you up so they can see you're just like us, and then why go and vote? So 33 times to make elections, the same foam will rise from above. That's what I'm saying about the parties of the past and the parties of the future and the parties of the present, so with the mutual chick, we won't get very far. And yes, some colleagues like Mr. Bikov, with all due respect, that's no excuse for a line, maybe they were too young. But Sofia Mayor Boyko Borisov, pushing barbecue, wanted to do the same thing, claimed he wanted a law to be there. Then the other lyrical character we listened to just how talented he was and most likely, he said, if he had the guts to come. There's Google, knock, you'll see the lines. And he boasted of the shepherd's dog given to him for his birthday in 2004 and said, "It also makes a living as a security guard, which was given to him for his birthday by that other pusher." I'm not hiding that I'm dealing with business. I said Mr. Dogan then, but at least I'm not dealing with smuggling, racketeering and commissary work. So let's stop this nonsense and vote for or against the committee or else we could live here. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not know if I can be useful with the proposal I intend to make, but I voted against the agenda today. I even thought about getting an explanation for a negative vote, but there wasn't time then, so maybe now I'll share why. I believe that points two, three and four, colleagues, on the agenda today are items that are.. how do I say.............................................................................................. All these issues could have been resolved much easier with a single parliamentary request from any MP to the relevant ministers in the caretaker government who would have responded factually. The case would have been clarified and the National Assembly would not have become the arena of this debate, which we see at the moment, which is extremely unproductive and which bets mines under our work on the first day. Something we all said yesterday that we didn't want. Both the draft decision on a temporary committee for "Rosenets" and a temporary commission on disclosure of facts and circumstances under the Ministry of Interior, whatever is a rule, and the temporary audit committee. The caretaker government has all the prerogatives, all the information and all the facts to establish what you want. There is no need to make an inquiry committee on any issue that a committee of inquiry will eventually call the ministers, it has nothing to do but call these same ministers, ask them questions and become an arena of political disputes, political debates, scandals and cause these discords at the moment, which yesterday, again, we all said we didn't want. My suggestion is that these three points be diverted. I am really telling you that they should be diverted, because they bring a completely unnecessary conflict, mining the work of the 46th National Assembly, as the work of the 45th was mined. There is a caretaker government that can be asked these questions. In a week or two, God forbid, there will be a new government that will certainly devote itself to these topics and will be able to analyze them factually in depth. Let us not burden the legislative body with actions that may be carried out in a few days by the executive bodies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u135	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen, Vice-Presidents! Dear Mr. Babikan, I had no intention of speaking at all on this subject, as it is far away from me, but you were talking something about the Hastra. The whole point is that we are already going to tear it up in the end this lining and you see how far it has come to propose that all this become a question to ministers, to whom they will respond protocolly. Let us vote to end this discussion. The views of the political forces were seen. Let us not really break up the House of National Assembly with this discussion. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u137	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u138	Mrs. Chairman! I'll ignore the question, by the way, which is out of the context of the replica regarding masks in the room, because some people here are suffocating with these masks, and others are without them. You decide how you're gonna proceed. Here's my line. Dear Mr. Cholakov, after hearing just a confession that you were in continuous collaboration with the DPS, now we see from you a refusal to have parliamentary committees to investigate facts and circumstances. This thing is not foreign to you, to your parliamentary group. With your statement just now you have proved that you do not want to have such committees in any form, definitely, especially when these committees, Mr. Cholakov, will not be in your custody, will not be under your presidency, will not form the reports, will not replace the facts. This thing you are doing here again as another recognition of what you have actually done in the 44th Parliament and how you have smeared people's eyes on all the problems you have created for yourself to come to this corrupt environment and all the things that shape the majority in this House. That's the truth. I thank you for having confessed to a collaboration during your parliamentary group member, you now refuse to have such a thing again................ even the nerve to offer it to the National Assembly. I call on the other Members to vote on the draft decision as it is, then who wants to import what they want, but the truth can no longer be swept away anyway. You know it very well, and that's what you're afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u139	Thank you. For the third line please, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u140	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Cholakov! I did not really understand what the discussion of the three committees interfered with exactly in the work of the National Assembly? There are still no parliamentary committees that are drawn up, GERB have not tried to import too many bills so that we can hinder their bills. That is, Mr. Cholakov is likely to end early today because there is some urgent work or perhaps in these committees there will be topics that are not convenient for the parliamentary group of GERB. For example, the subject of the revision of power and government over the last five years. Perhaps this is a major major problem which aims to cover up and quickly complete the work of the National Assembly. Or, for example, the Committee "Rosenets" or, for example, the Committee on Police Violence, which will also investigate facts and circumstances that took place during the protests and during the reign of GERB. So instead of trying to push the National Assembly's work, let us return parliamentaryism. In fact, this building to become a ground for debate, a ground for clashing opinions and ideas and a field for revealing the truth, because the most important thing in politics is to know the truth and who steps on the truth, he steps on a solid basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u141	Thank you. Mr. Cholakov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u142	I didn't want any colleagues to have to do the duvet. I don't know why you're challenging him. GERB will support these committees, as supported by the National Assembly in the past. I have tried to make a constructive proposal that I do not know why it was adopted in this way. There is a service government to which all questions about Rosenetz or whatever you want can be asked and answered with facts. The parliamentary committee of inquiry has nothing to do but call ministers, that is, the same thing. At the moment, in these committees we are setting up, somewhere around 70 - 80 colleagues will at least be involved here. Madam President, before that, she read the draft laws submitted on social issues, on economic issues, and I cannot understand why you believe that 80 people of parliament should participate in committees on issues that can be resolved by the ministers of the service in a few days, rather than devote ourselves to social and economic issues, which we have committed to with Bulgarian citizens. I couldn't understand why my words, my proposal, were interpreted in this way?! GERB will support the committees with full awareness that nothing will come of them, as it did not come from the previous committees and the Bulgarian people will be disappointed again. I want results, not conflicts. That's it. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u143	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Sadakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u144	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! It seems to be understandable that this long debate on this very easy topic is not to include the proposal for two cases in the same area as an area in the same committee. It's more important that we think about why someone doesn't want to be on the same committee. Because one case is purely political, and the other case is purely legal, and when the committee does its job, it will become clear what we are talking about. If the issue had not become so public, perhaps a circle of people would still remain unofficially in power. And Rossenets "Sirec DPS" was a stepping stone to come directly into power, officially in power. That's the main thing. Therefore, someone does not want us to put the two cases together in a committee, which is absolutely logical so that the legal case does not burn the political issue in this committee. Let's think about it and then let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u145	Thank you, Mr. Sadakov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u146	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened carefully to the debate. Although the peak of the speeches has passed and everyone has said their thesis, I would like to draw attention to a fact the most severe and ugliest person of Bulgarian politics is when you take advantage of the tools of populism, especially populism, which is related to certain nationalist sentiments. I would like to say to my colleagues on the right: no matter how hard you try, as well as try to hide certain things, to pretend to be people with a desire to bring the truth out with the image of a multi-suffering Genoveva here in front of everyone, the truth is the same thing, there is simply no way to conceal it, colleagues. The truth is that you are taking advantage of the instruments of this populism, and every parliamentary group here will vote from the position of what political dividend from the point of view of populism this parliamentary group will receive and the way it will defend its political thesis to its voters. That's the problem. And this is already breaking the objective attitude towards every single issue that we are debating here. This is a big problem in front of the entire parliament for every case! That's why these committees are being made. And one more thing. No matter how much you try and in whatever way you try to explain why the topic of Buzaka-kun should not be mixed here with the theme of "Rosenets" I will tell you: you do not want to mix it, because from the point of view of populism about "Rosenets" much more clearly will exude the topic of "Bujaka"! You want a separate committee! That's why there won't be any interest. And you claim the right to look objectively at this topic. No, you don't want objectivity. You want to take advantage of the tools of populism. That's what you're doing! And when you do, I automatically... Every impartial spectator understands what this is about. This thing needs to break. You need to break it within yourself in order for Bulgarian politics and Bulgarian parliamentaryism to go forward. It's not gonna work with the theme of "Rosenets." This is not a theme of justice. This is a theme of populism. This tool must break here if we want to move forward. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. There has been a proposal from Mr. Ali to supplement the name and the scope of the Decision. Do you want me to read it to you again, or did he already present it to you and that's enough? [[Heckling]] Don't read it, okay. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr Ali to supplement the name of the decision and the subject of the Commission's activity. Vote 139 MPs: 28, against 52, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the draft decision as it is tabled. Vote 206 MPs: 193 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] We are now moving on to the election of Commissioners by two MPs from each parliamentary group. I ask for suggestions from "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" I propose for members Mr. Alexander Viktorov Rashev and Mrs. Zlatomira Dimitrova Mostrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u149	Thank you. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u150	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Coalition GERB-SDS, I propose Daniel Mitov and Zhecho Stankov as members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u151	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u152	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria I propose Mr. Atanas Zafirov and Mr. Manol Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u153	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I propose Kaloyan Yankov as President and Dimitar Naydenov as Commissioner on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u155	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u156	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose Mr Hamid Hamid and Mr Ramadan Atalay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u157	Thank you. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u158	From the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! We are coming!Svetoslav Kolev and Danail Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u159	Thank you. Didn't I hear a proposal for a vice-president? Nobody proposed. The Commission should consist of a President, Vice-President and Members at least this is how we voted just now. The President was proposed by the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. What are we doing, guys, now? [[Heckling]] No vice-president? [[Radio.]] Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u160	It's okay. We propose Svetoslav Kolev as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u161	Thank you. Colleagues, please vote on the proposals. They voted 209 MPs: for 207, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. That and this item on the agenda is closed. You guys want to take a break? [[Replys: "Yes! "]] Yeah. Time out for 30 minutes. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u162	Colleagues, time for a break is up. We continue on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF FACTS AND CONSTRUCTIONS FOR THE USE OF A FULL GAS, THE USE OF POWERS AND EXAMINATIONS BY THE Ministry OF Interior, WORKED ON 10 JULY AND 2 SEPTEMBER 2020 AGAINST RESTRUCTURING GRADES, AS WELL AS FOR THE INVESTIGATION OF FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO DISTRIBUTION AND FOLLOW OF PROSTITUTIONAL GRADES, OPPOSITIVE LEADERS AND MEMBERS OF POSITIONAL PARTS. Please have one of the importers present the draft decision. Mr. Hadjigenov, would you be the one to come in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The 10th of July 2020 The second day of the civil protest, around 11.00 p.m. uniformed and masked officials of the Ministry of Interior kidnap 11 people from the protesters, drag them behind the columns of the Council of Ministers, handcuff them, give them heavy beatings three of them were subsequently accepted into the Ministry of Interior, where they spend between three days and two weeks, making fun of the only girl among the 11 detained, filming him with their mobile phones, probably for subsequent use. This has come to us thanks to an amateur video of a protesting citizen of this kind. There was no investigation at all. As far as there was an attempt to investigate, it was made only to cover up police violence, a strategy of GERB management and probably under the personal leadership of Borisov, by order of the then Minister of Interior. The inspection, if it can be called that, found disciplinary violations, hiding the names of the perpetrators. All of them were punished between the....... and the ban on promotion for six months............................................................................................ We're talking torture, we're talking illegal arrest. For torture, damn it! We are talking about concealing the crimes committed by the Ministry of Interior because these are crimes, in collaboration with the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, led by Ivan Geshev. With one exception, each of the 10 children who have suffered because they are young students to one in Bulgaria or abroad, with one exception, each of them has been charged with committing a crime. I am not in vain saying "in cooperation with the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria." That is, we have an organized criminal group created by the Ministry of Interior, GERB and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. These could have been your kids! They're somebody's kids, somebody's grandchildren, somebody's friends. This was done for a single purpose the previous day the protest broke out, it was massive enough, and he shook the chair of the pachysha in a strange way until now the absolute power of his was beginning to see the end of it. The reason why, at the Commission's first point, we want an investigation to be carried out and no, this investigation will not concentrate on calling for a minister of the service. No. This committee will carry out all those actions that the Ministry of Interior has failed to carry out except for the cover-up, which means we will uncover them. He will do what the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria did not do, namely not investigate the crimes committed. He'll gather all the evidence he needs for that, they're there. Some of them to this day are still hiding from the head of the National Security Service, still hiding from the leadership of the SDU. Yes, we're talking about the CCTV footage of the National Security Service, which is above the columns of the Council of Ministers and which have directly filmed this. These recordings from these cameras were provided to the Ministry of Interior inspection. They're hiding to this day. Still the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office and the National Security Service. So the reason why we want such a Commission to be established is precisely this. Let's gather evidence, solve the crimes committed, do it, notice, as public as possible, because that's something you need to know. We owe such a thing to the MPs because of the lack of other institutions, we owe this to the Bulgarian citizens. And this, notice, is not a rematch. No. This is what justice should look like in a normal country. We are not yet, although we have taken slow steps in this direction. This is the only reason we want to set up a Temporary Commission for this purpose. At the risk of sounding petty, but we penalists are petty in the field, this committee is introduced for the fifth time in the previous National Assembly four times, now being inserted for the fifth time. The second issue that will address this same committee, as far as there is an obvious link, are illegal wiretaps carried out by all kinds of departments and departments of the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and in collaboration with the Prosecutor's Office and the Specialized Court of the Prosecutor's Office. Such evidence is already in place. We made them public in part. Investigations are being carried out. Here I would like to open a clamp for those who are not tempted by criminal law. There is a signature by a judge of the Special Court, probably the President of the Specialized Criminal Court, who, by the way, denied on television that they have done such a thing, does not make these wiretaps legal. By comparison Vladimira Yaneva, in this part of the hall is a familiar name, was sentenced by an effective sentence for signing an authorisation for specialized intelligence means. That's why. So they're illegal. We need to understand why hundreds of Bulgarian citizens have been tapped, notice, peaceful protesters? Why are opposition leaders being tapped? Why are members of political parties being tapped? Why? This is something the Commission must do. And no! Again, we will not call the Home Secretary, or at least not just. We'll collect that evidence again. We know where this part of them is stored, which they have failed to hide and destroy. We know where they're stored. We'll demand them in due order, we'll do everything again that wasn't done by the Ministry of Interior or the D.A. or anyone else. With regard to wiretaps, I would like to draw attention to each and every one of you. These eavesdroppings are a disgusting act that brings us back to the darkest years of communist, fascist and whatever. Because this approach of the secret services, of the notorious State Security, is not aimed at preserving the justice, life, health and property of the Bulgarian citizens. No! This is an act of gross, disgusting act that peeks under the sheets of each and every one of you for the sole purpose of preserving the illegal power of a tyrant. There's no other reason. The only reason for this is this one! I would like to make an appeal. You are not obliged to comply with it. With the previous Commission, we have had some pleasure. As far as the subject of this committee in its two main issues is not subject to pleasure, I would not recommend to anyone to mock the subject because Bulgarian citizens suffered, our children suffered on the subject. So my appeal to you is: let's not turn this discussion into a pathetic lowlife circus! None of the Bulgarian citizens deserve this. We are here to do effective work and show what justice should look like. It's nothing else. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u164	Mr. Hadjigenov, you have now presented the draft decision as an importer. So please present the Project itself as a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u165	Please excuse me, Madam President. Of course. The Commission shall be established for a period of three months...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u166	No, no, no. What you brought in. A decision to set up a temporary committee... Do you have it or should I hand it to you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u167	Project to establish a Temporary Commission for the investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020. The last known as the "Blood Wednesday" against protesters citizens, as well as investigating facts and circumstances related to wiretapping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition. Set up a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances under the cited topics, two members of a Parisian principle, three months' period of existence, President, without Vice-Presidents. That's our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u168	Mr. Hadjigenov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u169	Did I miss something?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u170	You made a mix right now. You read something that I didn't think was in the decision. I will read to you the decision as it has been submitted and then you will make your proposals, as the decision lacks a time limit and lacks a number so that it can be supplemented in the decision. Thank you, for now. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of facts and circumstances in the use of tear gas, the use of force and assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as the investigation of facts and circumstances relating to wiretapping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties of the opposition The National Assembly on the basis of art. Paragraph 86. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He established a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Force and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens, as well as to investigate facts and circumstances related to the eavesdropping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties from the opposition. I'm opening the debate for speeches. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, distinguished viewers, dear guests? The Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the request for the establishment of such a temporary committee with the scope and manner in which it is presented as a proposal for a solution. I also allow myself to say a few words on behalf of the victims because I was arrested on 2 September. A force was applied against me, tear gas. On this date, many Bulgarian citizens over 100 were victims of police violence, police arbitrariness, and the National Assembly should address this issue. Especially when my arrest warrant fell in court. The Court found that there was no basis for this. Moreover, when Bulgarian citizens, for the first time in custody, such as myself, at least our entire cell was such a witness to the behavior, the attitude of the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the humiliating conditions in which peacefully protesting citizens are placed. Therefore, I believe that in the name of democracy, justice and to a large extent, in order to make it clear to the Bulgarian society what happened then, in order not to repeat such shameful events of Bulgarian history, there should be such a committee and it should investigate all the facts and circumstances related to the actions of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the authorities of political power. Because I have no doubt that these were not only the actions of officers of the Ministry of Interior. These were actions dictated by orders from political leaders at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u172	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u173	Dear colleagues, Madam President! The study of facts and circumstances related to any incidents, events, violations or unexplained situations in Bulgaria is in the prerogative of the National Assembly. And there is nothing wrong with making committees, proposing. It sounds a little strange in the Chamber of Parliament and in the platform of parliament to confuse two concepts such as examining facts and circumstances and handing out sentences by committees, for which it was appealed by the importers. However, it is comforting to me that, in the proposal itself, these words, these words for the delivery of judgments and the doing of justice, which were in the statement of the importer, are gone. It's a sedative. I went out before you today to say that there is no harm in having such a committee, but it is good to start talking in this Parliament and so. From the experience I have with the other such committee, in the previous Assembly and knowing how what I voted in the plenary of the National Assembly in a revolutionary rush is being trampled, retorted and redirected, I suggest in this decision that we simply include two sentences specifying the work of the committee. The proposal, which I present to all my fellow Members in this Chamber, in no way, I believe that it does not diminish, destroy, blame the objectives set by the committee. On the contrary, it will simply enable all the facts and circumstances proposed for the Commission's work to be sanctified. If you'll let me, I'll tell you what this is about. Simply after the protesting citizens to be charged with abuse against the employees of the Ministry of Interior and because if someone has committed a crime against peaceful protesters citizens and this is proved by the Bulgarian court or even to be collected in this commission facts and circumstances to be given to the court and to take a decision thanks to the work of this commission, none of us should forget that some Bulgarian citizens performing their duties were subjected to attempted murder. They were tried to set fire to the same employees who guarded colleagues here from protesters in the previous National Assembly, who guarded other colleagues at many national meetings. They're just citizens, too, Mr. Hadjigenov. Isn't that right? The fact that they're following orders, that someone might have given some order that we don't like, doesn't make them the target of murder. So, let's get this straight. Was there an arson attempt there? Let me get this straight. That's fair, isn't it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u174	In GERB, is that fair?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u175	I suggest to you this topic to discuss it both GERB and honesty, and Manoil Manev and honesty, and Hadjigenov and honesty, but this is not to happen from the stand of the National Assembly. In the second part of your proposal, there is also one thing I hope my colleagues will understand and approve it, a proposal: after the end of your sentence to drop the word of the opposition and to be added to the period of the election campaign for the Forty-sixth National Assembly. I won't even bother to explain it, to justify it. Is the office implementing the SRS illegal, and should we add it, because in your proposal the word "illegal" is missing? If you don't mind, let's add an illegal wiretap to the text, not in conversations, not in pre-cambules, but in the text "illegal wiretap." Because let's see if the Minister of the Interior in any way during the entire election campaign had not used illegal SRS. How legal were they, to whom were they used, and how much? All the facts and circumstances just to get them out into the open and get it over with. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u177	That's my offer. [[The National Representative Manoil Manev shall forward the proposal to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u178	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u179	Thank you, colleagues. I hope with reason, without theatrical emotions, we will proceed to the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u180	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For lines? A line? Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, for purely principled reasons, I reject any proposal from GERB. Next, make a proposal for the Commission to investigate the creation of the world. The idea that we will blurt out the Commission with something else will not pass! I'm telling you now! Too primitive. And as I have already said, we penalists are petty to disgrace, because we live by this, do we really live by the Ministry of Interior, with all our power and with the hand of the Attorney General, when it is not the hand of God, is not able to detect murder or attempted murder? But you, as an expert in criminal law, may have established one, I would like to be useful to you because you are obviously not doing well enough. There was a huge volition by one of the senior management of the Ministry of Interior, who spent two days dealing with a crushed testicle, which ended up as an officer of the Ministry of Interior... That's right. The testicle was crushed, which finally turned out to be GERB, so... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: There is no such thing!]] Yes, make such a committee in due order I will be the first to vote for it. Thank you. [[Private applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As in the previous paragraph, we are again witnessing an attempt to dispel the subject, the Commission as a scope. As far as there has been violence by a certain group of people against police officers, I think it is clear to everyone, but this in itself was a violation and the Ministry of Interior could apply all these techniques to identify who the persons are and make it clear that they are not part of the protesters. And to make it clear that perhaps the same order was given by the same persons to justify violence against peacefully protesting Bulgarian citizens, including, as I said, I was, and to a duly organised protest with a notification regime, followed by a procedure brought out of the place that constitutes numerous other violations committed at that time. So let's not mix the range of this. Another question is why the Prosecutor's Office does not want to press charges, does not want to launch an investigation into the violence that has been committed, whether against law enforcement bodies or against Bulgarian citizens expressing their right to protest. In this sense, I suggest that we remain within the scope of the importer, and the other issues have ways to deal with them, including you can ask the Attorney General Ivan Geshev why he has not ordered a check of this...................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u184	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. For a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u185	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Manev, I think you're trying to misplace the subject. Yes, Bulgarian policemen were performing their duties, which, I would say, one bow before them! However, the question is another: have the aids been properly used? Was there an excess of rights and, above all, who issued these orders if there was no need? And as the Bulgarian court has decided for those who are detained, whether they are guilty or not, whether they should be released or not, so the Commission will decide whether or not there is an excess of rights and, if there is, the Bulgarian court will rule on these heads of police whether they gave orders correctly and whether these orders were at all from their competence. So there's nothing wrong with the scope of this committee and, as colleagues say, let's not blurt out, let's see what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u186	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. It's for the doppelganger. Mr. Manev for the dot? No, you don't. Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Capon, did you want to speak? Okay. Which one of you goes first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u187	Madam President, just in order to state the speeches. Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we will support the draft decision as presented to the National Assembly to all of us. It is important for us to say that we, when drawing up this Temporary Committee, will also ask other questions which we have put in the past the National Assembly, which we consider to be extremely important, because whether there has been an action or omission by the Ministry will also establish the Commission. But it is important to know the Bulgarian citizens and whether private security guards, such as photographs, were involved in ensuring the safety of the buildings of the Bulgarian institutions? It is an extremely important issue, in our opinion, because many of the protesters have suffered, I would say, by the actions of people who have neither been legitimized nor there is a clear picture of whether they are employees of the Ministry of Interior. So this is an extremely important issue and if so, what did they do at this protest and what order did they provide after there were beaten Bulgarian citizens? Yeah, also who gave the orders for tear gas and everything else? I think the whole House is okay with this truth coming out because it is in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, all the more so that even in the past the National Assembly when asking the questions we have received answers that there are sanctions, but, notice, only by the protesters. We have not received an answer as to what are the sanctions regarding the actions of specific officials from the Ministry of Interior? We didn't get those answers. And I think we should know what measures and the relevant actions they have taken at the Ministry of Interior in this regard. So these questions we are going to put in the Commission and we believe that this is a very serious committee that will also give a clue to what actually happened in these protests with a view to presenting in full a draft decision as it is. Again, BSP will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. For lines? I won't. Mrs. Capon, for speaking. First you stated, then said Mr. Ivanov and then Mrs. Manolova. Okay. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u189	Madam President, honourable Members! It was really right to alternate groups, but still, when you give us the floor, we'll talk about it. To remind colleagues that an attempt to set up such a committee was made in the previous parliament, and in the midst of the protests the main tribune that was given here was by our parliamentary group and we are quite aware of what was happening and what was not happening. A few things happened. Apparently, there was violence on both protesting citizens and police officers in the squares. It didn't happen that we wanted to and didn't get answers from the relevant minister exactly what was happening. This committee is timely and, in addition to specifying all these facts and circumstances which are recorded in its subject matter, it must give an extremely important direction. What should not happen from now on in the Ministry of Interior; in what way the employees of the Ministry of Interior should not be used, because those people who work there under a pagon do not deserve to be qualified in one way or another because of their leaders, because whatever happened there, it was as a result of the issuing of an order by someone and it is very important that this committee clarify and clarify who issued that order. The appropriate measures in quotes, if I may call them so, from the previous manuals of the Ministry of Interior regarding clarification of this situation do not think that they answer the questions that have been asked at the moment and which have been asked in the past. It is extremely important, as a result of the work of this committee, to give the way of work to this ministry in the coming years. It is precisely its total depoliticisation, total non-participation in all political games, because people are tired of both the Bulgarian citizens and the employees of the Ministry in the way they are used in one situation or another. Because this isn't an isolated case. Absolutely not an isolated case! Rightly said colleague Chenchev that this committee we will support and participate actively because we really know what happened, we have a number of questions that we will ask there, along with those recorded, because the things that we expect to come out are much more than those that are recorded in the scope of this committee's work. So, colleagues, all those who will be proposed in the composition of the committee to be aware that they are expected not only to clarify what is written there, but also to give a clear signal that the Ministry will no longer be used for such pressures on the Bulgarian society when it expresses its views and disagreements against certain policies of the state, it is very important to know. And this must be one of the statures of future policy that will govern the future Minister of Interior over its employees in order for them to receive the attitude they should receive from the state. Colleagues, I really hope that this committee in very short time and with very hard work will reach the necessary conclusions and results for which it has been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u191	Madam President, honourable Members! I use the opportunity for a reply to remind you something else very important about the speech before me that there are often protests in Bulgaria. I'm a representative of the Green Movement. We are one of the authentic bearers of this protest culture, which is for the best because we have managed to win important topics for Bulgaria that have not been supported by the parliamentary majority and have often come to change. But something very important has been said that it is the political protests that give rise to a similar reaction by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and here I would like to remind of two other cases. One from January 14, 2009, when I was once again one of the victims, I was also organizer of the protest and another from which tomorrow is eight years old, namely the white bus incident. We have a colleague of ours who had a bloody head the other day. Obviously, it is so that these authorities of the Ministry of Interior, and the employees of the Ministry of Interior, whether out of fear of their leadership, whether because of orders issued by their leadership in political protests, act outside the law and lead to police violence, use of methods that are not allowed. That is why it is very important that this committee is going to work. I see that perhaps there will be support for such a proposal of colleagues from.............................................................................................. We're coming, and I welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u192	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sandov, I think you yourself know very well what the scope of work of this committee is on this particular topic. Historically, we can go back to 1934, and further back for police violence, right? It is important for you, and for your political power to become clear precisely this essence, which I have tried to explain to you that the result of the work of this committee is precisely from now on the non-interference for political reasons in the work of the Ministry of Interior and no longer to meet such committee to clarify such facts and circumstances for what happened a year ago. That's all that matters. Everyone here in this room to understand it and all those involved in this committee. After all, the result that must be given to society and the signals that we will give to the employees of the Ministry of Interior must be very precise and clear that we, more as politicians here in this Chamber, who we are at the moment, will not use them and there will be no harm to Bulgarian citizens as a result of such use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Manolova, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our parliamentary group has evidence of illegal wiretapping of civil society activists, opposition politicians, journalists over the last year. We are talking about dozens of citizens who are mainly participants in the protests that have been tapped, monitored and to whom special intelligence means have been applied. The most cynical and outrageous thing is that most of the implementation of these special intelligence means has been done in pre-trial proceedings under art. 95 of the Penal Code of State coup, mutiny, armed uprising. These texts provide for some of the most severe punishments for more than 10 years in prison for life without replacement, and ordinary citizens are being held liable for this text. This is practically the whole office of Stand up. БГ!............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These citizens, along with journalists, have been monitored, tapped and requests to extend permissions have been made several times. So here's the question: are these wiretaps against the civil platform legal? And opposition politicians don't really make sense? The Specialized Prosecutor's Office has made a request for authorisation to the Specialized Court, presenting the participation in the protests, the request for the overthrow of the government of GERB and Borisov as a coup! In whose twisted brain a political protest, which, of course, wants the resignation of power, can be translated as a mutiny, as a coup d'état, as an armed uprising? And since we have the data from these SRS, there is evidence that the most heavy weapon that has been mentioned, with which we insurgents wanted to overthrow Borisov's power, is a water sprayer!? So the question is, are we talking about a legitimate wiretap? They're sorted out the whole office of Stand up. Some of the people are here, look at them, is this OCG? Because they went out on the street and took part in the protests, they're the OPGs, who want to mutiny! So I suggest that we don't put the question at all, whether it's legal or not, let's not put it into question. On a formal basis, perhaps, but on a factual point to ask in pre-trial for a coup d'état, without evidence, without facts, without any fact, is that legal? And here, because this temporary committee will need, in addition to investigating the facts and the wiretapping, the monitoring, the SRS, to hold another debate about what changes should be made, what legislative changes about this no longer happening. Because you or at least the lawyers know very well that the means of protecting a citizen against the prosecution's actions to set up pre-trially are impossible, in practice these acts are non-violent. So tomorrow my conversation with lawyer Hadjigenov of the bank here can be presented by the prosecution in any way, to make any crazy requests that we cannot object to, we cannot request judicial review, we cannot say: why against us, why in this text? Two other questions will be raised here, besides the reform of the prosecution, and the lack of control over the prosecutor's acts, which forms pre-trial proceedings on insane grounds. Here is also the issue of the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, because the Special Prosecutor's Office wanted to listen to all civil society activists of The General Court and the Specialized Court have authorised, reading that these people are in proceedings for a coup d'état without even having the impression that there are no facts and no evidence, no information, I merely claim that you want to blow up the state and you are forming. And this application of the SRS has continued for months, a multiple extension has been requested. Now here is, of course, the question of whose desk the data from these SRS went? Is it not the one against which the protests are translated as a coup d'état? Do you understand what the problem is? And indeed this should never again happen to protect power from political protest, such as the request of a prime minister's resignation to be interpreted as a coup d'état! Perhaps, not perhaps, we are witnessing this, and I think that in the interests of GERB it is precisely in this way to adopt this committee. That's it! That's it! That's it! To see the truth and to make changes. Changes are necessary both in the services and in the control bodies: what does the Bureau of Control check on the SRS? On a formal level, I'm sure, yeah. Over here, there's a request for a coup d'état, there's some authorized SRS, and everything's fine. There is no problem listen to them, the political opposition listen to them, and bring us what they say. This was also in the election campaign before the April 4th elections. In terms of police brutality. Why should we remain the wording we have asked of..................................................................................................... We're coming! Because in this case, it is a matter of refusing an effective and impartial thorough investigation by the prosecution. That's one reason. There are dozens of cases of police violence that have just been covered, not investigated. I can give examples and as the most fragile is with the journalist Kenarov, who was beaten while doing his job, and in the end the prosecution found no reason to start prosecution for it. In this sense are also the judgments of the Strasbourg Court against Bulgaria: The lack of an efficient investigation of police violence. You know better than I do that you come from this area, that usually the violence of a police officer, the investigation of violence is given to a police officer from the same precinct...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u196	Mrs. Manolova, would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u197	I want a time extension. Finally, I would just like to express my gratitude to the lawyers who pro bono, free of charge, defended the hundreds arrested during these protests both on 2 September and on 10 September, who carried out the cases to the end, fell orders for illegal detention. I want to thank them from this stand: lawyer Polina Velcheva, attorney Rosen Rashkov, attorney Mincho Spasov [[Applause from IBBNI and CB]] , lawyer Kristian Grigorov, lawyer Grozev, lawyer Dino Bozadzhiev, for defending people free of charge from the protest, young people educated, literate. The color of the nation was in the cells of a police station, so it needs this committee. After it, we need to make changes if we have to turn with the Hastra out and the services, but no more abuse of the law, the highest right of the Bulgarians, the right of expression protected in the Constitution, in political protest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, I think you wanted the floor. There was a request before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to add an important question to the subject. There was, of course, police violence against peaceful protesters, which is unacceptable, and the purpose of this committee is to clarify those responsible, to be held accountable and no longer to allow such a thing. This is important, this is the ultimate goal. But one important detail. My colleagues "Peter Slavov and Albena Belyanova" file a case with which they ask the Minister of Interior to reveal what substances were used against the protesters citizens. It's not working, notice, no answer. There's a silent refusal. This silent refusal is attacked in court and ultimately comes to an answer because, in parallel with this effort, I bring a question to the Minister of Interior and he responds. It is, of course, about the former Minister.................................................................................... However, colleagues, the fact that this issue has been difficult to answer, it has taken a long time, the truth has been hidden for a long time, it is worth checking what substances have been used against peaceful protesters citizens; why have provocations been sought by certain individuals to enable law enforcement forces to use such substances against peaceful protesters citizens, to intimidate them, so there will be no more such protests? So in the subject matter and the work of the committee, it is right and proper and this issue should be clarified, since it had to be conducted a whole case in order to clarify what the police were doing, what substances it used against peacefully protesting citizens. I strongly support the subject of the committee's work, as of course, all colleagues from the "Democratic Bulgaria" but we hope that this issue will be clarified with our participation as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u200	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u201	Mr. Dimitrov, I was one of the people, along with Adelina Benakieva, with Valentina Vasileva, with Tony Boycheva, with a bunch of random young women and men passing by, and we made this field infirmary. They had a clear order to spray it in their eyes. It wasn't just tear gas, it wasn't just gas from which you had to see the bodies and faces of these young people. Over 100 people have gone through this and we will never again allow us not to know what there is, what the substances are. I want to know personally on behalf of all those women who with Coca-Cola, with water, with all sorts of options of what we were taking from the pharmacy. We want to know what it was and who gave that order? And the last thing I'm going to say is that I never want to see anyone kick our kids in the kidneys again, because what happened on the 10th, what caused every day, here's Hadjigenov, and Babikan, and I'm sure Minekov listens to it, I know that Hristo Ivanov knew it, neither of us from the next day could afford not to support and not to be in the square because of these kicks in kidneys, in lungs and everywhere the children. That I as a mother never want to see him again. I want to know who they were, I want to see the video cameras, I want everyone to know where these people are now. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Second line? There aren't any. Mr. Dimitrov, the back? I won't. Okay, thank you. Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u203	Madam President, honourable Members! Good luck to those of you who will be members of this committee. I think you should look at another aspect of the problem. Violence isn't just physical, it's verbal. You need to report, remind and show the Bulgarian citizens the attitude of that self-loathing authority to the protesters, who were called by representatives of this power, the apes, the bums, the drug addicts and so on from the stands of national media, the media bats, the brown and any other instruments available to that compromised power. Our parliamentary group will be actively involved in the work because we have something to help. While these events were evolving, not only were we, I was personally at the protests, but we used the instruments of parliamentary control to put all those questions. Personally, I've put a few on the Home Secretary. I remember a specific one in which I asked: how many employees, for what violations, what sanctions were sanctioned, and the minister's response was how many protesters for what violations were sanctioned. This is the tearing away from the reality of that power that we asked for one thing, and they answered us quite another. However, this committee also believes with another government, and other ministers already have every chance to bring reality out, and we will help with all our might. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u204	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? Mr. Babikan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u205	You know what I'm afraid of today? I'm afraid of you laughing. I don't want it to happen to your children! I do not want Bulgarians against Bulgarians! I don't want to hear the sad silence in the truck because the boys were embarrassed to arrest me and stare at the ground. Let us end this so that this does not happen again in Bulgaria. This really should not happen anymore in Bulgaria. Any cheerful intellectuals will listen, who will tell me how they beat in Paris, how they beat in London, how they beat in Istanbul. That's not what I'm talking about. The cops didn't beat the cops here. They beat the ones who told them to. And they know these people aren't terrorists. You're not imagining some 18-19-year-old students who, walking down the street, just decided to kill some cop, and they thought they were getting beat up? You can't imagine that, can you? Don't laugh at the past, it shouldn't come back as a future. Please don't laugh at this past, it's very embarrassing! Let's at least wash our eyes after we've barely washed the hot eyes of our children. Let's not feel this shame in front of everyone. Thank you. [[Single applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u206	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Are there any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bojankov, do you have one? No. Mr. Yordanov's statement. [[Heckling]] He hasn't spoken. First Mr. Yordanov had stated, otherwise I wrote it down Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u207	There is such a people that we will support this committee as it is proposed. I would like to address the group of GERB. If you had any shame and dignity, you would now be silent when this committee is being discussed. And secondly, we of "There is such a people" we believe that the mutro militia imposed in the Ministry of Interior by GERB should not only be consecrated, but also those who are guilty of this must receive their retribution. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u208	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Marinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Hadjigenov, I see in you a serious progress in rhetoric. Since you attacked the police in the previous National Assembly that they were parishioners, now I see that you have changed the subject.. You are more favorable to the police and have already addressed their leaders. You, even more so as a lawyer, a good lawyer, at least so you claim, should not issue sentences from this tribune, should not say results and make suggestions before the commission has carried out the relevant checks and come up with the relevant findings. Otherwise, we make suggestions that have not been proven yet, and this should not happen. At least you as a lawyer should know that and the people who do the law profession. Because if this is how a trial goes, where is justice here and where is the racing start, where is the presumption of innocence and so on? But these are topics I'm not going to explain to you. In terms of police brutality. I, at least as a minister at the beginning of the protest, and as a citizen who followed the process on television and on the media, constantly watched broadcasts of not peacefully protesting citizens, and there were peaceful protesters, but not peacefully protesting citizens attacking police officers. And throughout the world, when no police order was executed and apparently police officers were attacked, so either with a water cannon or a water pistol, but these weren't certain water pistols, but were flammable substances, straw was lit, were stones, metal pipes, however, police officers were allowed to use aids and physical force. And this use takes place by certain legal procedures, certain instructions, including instructions that say tear gas... This is the general concept of tear gas, but they are different gases with different uses, which are accepted by armed forces in the Ministry of Interior and are only allowed to be used. It's all over the world, I say. I didn't see cops beating up a peaceful protesting citizen. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I saw beat-up cops. [[(Noise, applause and cheering:]] All right, gentlemen, you have the opportunity, right now the caretaker government can carry out all checks. Let's not say guilty before the check is done. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And with regard to... [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u210	Quiet, please! Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u211	And as for what you said about going back to the dark times, do you know who brings us back to the dark times? Brings back the caretaker government and its actions [[crowd cheering and chirping]] because thousands of GERB members were called in an election campaign on anonymous signals. Who was yelling at anonymous signals in the past, we all know here. Anonymous signals and alerted, detained. By the way, the mayor of Bata condemned the police's arrest warrant, but you obviously didn't mention it here, because only the condemned in your favor, as you believe, should be mentioned. So be objective. We're also on the same page. We are also to participate in the verification of what the national representative and colleague Manoil Manev suggested. Let us objectively consider the situation. The colleagues on the left most probably remember 2014 as well. I was then director of the SDVR and after the Oresharski government fell, such a commission was also made. There's been a check-up. We must have collected thousands of copies, pages, suspected wiretap, wiretap charges. In any case, the result was that the police acted according to the law, according to the situation, in defence of their privacy and in defence of democracy and public order. So a policeman, when using aids, of course, you call him "boys," "torture" and so on, but it has a legal definition, and these are "physical powers and aids" under the relevant circumstances. Yes, whenever there have been violations by police officers, appropriate checks have always been carried out, appropriate findings have always been made. The penalties provided for in the Act on the Ministry of Interior are always imposed as disciplinary penalties. Where there is evidence of crimes committed, you know that the prosecution is competent, not the National Assembly, to say who is guilty and who is not. [[DB lines.]] I call on you to preserve the dignity of the Bulgarian policeman, already in the context and of your speech to preserve the dignity of the leaders, the Bulgarian police officers holding the leading positions, because I think that the Minister of Staff Rashkov appointed as Director of the SDVR one of the employees who directly led the actions of the police. I don't know what kind of reasons you changed him after that, but it's a fact that he was hired. He may also be called to the committee and will explain to you who made the decisions, how they were taken and on what basis. As an ex-cop, I'm telling you that we've been through a lot of these situations, and the police have always been used for political purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u212	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u213	And you did it! And you allowed yourself to be used for political purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u214	Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u215	Used for political purposes by those who...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u216	Mr. Hadzhikenov! [[Loud noise and shouting from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u217	...through it they want to enter the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Let's listen to each other! Used for political purposes to enter the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u218	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u219	What's good? [[INN lines, DB.]] So let the committee carry out its checks and let them be objective. But let checks be carried out also on why anonymous signals in the course of the election campaign were pressured and humiliated members of GERB, mayors of GERB and what was the goal. Aren't you going to ask the question and check it out? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. For lines to Mr. Marinov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u221	Mr. Marinov, you are one of the reasons that led to a violation of the dignity of the Bulgarian police officer. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because when there are protesters who are aggressive against the police, yes, they can defend themselves, but we all remember the footage of the handcuffed protesters jumping on their heads. And they didn't jump on their heads because that's what one person or another has decided, but most likely because people like you ordered it! And we will never forget this thing because you bloody Bulgarian protests. Something that didn't happen at my place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u222	What didn't happen?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u223	And when in the past the National Assembly we called you here as Minister to explain who and why you allowed this thing, you fled here and did not answer. You didn't want to answer, because deep down you knew that you and Prime Minister Borisov were guilty of all this, as your former boss Meto Ilienski ran away, but you should know where he is best. [[Laughter]] Let's not forget this thing! So, Mr. Marinov, you have no right to come out of this tribune and talk about these things! [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] Because you are one of the culprits for turning the Bulgarian police into a repressive body against the Bulgarian citizens who went out quite peacefully to protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u224	Thank you. For a second line? Mr. Sandov, come in. Then Mr. Stanev wanted a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u225	We're taking turns!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u226	We're taking turns, we're taking turns, and we're taking turns.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u227	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Marinov, there are now two things I need to replicate. The first is that before there was any aggression by unidentified individuals, clearly no part of the protest against Bulgarian police officers, there were already arrests and there was already the use of police violence. My arrest was at noon, shortly before 12:00, the footage you're talking about happened in the evening hours. This one, first. Secondly, when we talk about the presumption of innocence and the fact that we are not here to issue sentences, there are sentences from the Bulgarian court and they are that the arrests were illegal. And it's not just my arrest. There are still at least a few arrests like this. I have a direct statement that it has been so, and I am sure that in the course of this commission's work, it will be established how high the percentage of the arrest warrants issued that fell in court. So there are two irrefutable evidence that contradict your thesis. But I also want to say one more thing because I have known you from the time when you agreed with the notifications of protests and I very well remember those times when you told how the Bulgarian policemen started consulting psychologists so that no more forms of aggression on their part could be allowed and that they would know how to react in such situations. So, what happened after all? If this happened the way you presented it, why did it come to what we're talking about today? I think the answer is clear: these people have been ordered to do so and in the course of the committee's work I think this will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u228	Thank you, Mr. Sandov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u229	In the manner of conduct! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u230	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u231	Colleagues, just to say in the manner of keeping procedures can be received as soon as you want them. I'll be brief, the chairman gave me the floor. [[Heckling]] I'll be brief! The rotation of lines is so that we can all say something. Obviously, however, on this point, it is absolutely irrelevant who will say what the verdicts and the guilty, and what happened, everything is clear to you, but why are you making this committee? Why are you making this committee? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't call me "baby." In Stara Zagora, we are educated people and we talk to you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u232	Mr. Manev, I must answer you. With regard to the lines, they shall be given up to three Members of Parliament and shall not be alternated by Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall be alternated with regard to the speeches in a clear procedure with a request from the parliamentary group. At the moment, there are requests only from MPs, so I don't take turns taking them, but I give them in order. [[Applause from IBBNI, ICN, DB.]] Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the first time in the history of the Bulgarian National Assembly, we hear a former head of the Ministry of Interior say that the police were used for political purposes. [[Applause from IBBNI, ICN, DB.]] There's a thought of Mark Twain my father Thomas Bikov certainly knows it, he's an intelligent man. [[Laughter]] Dad, I want to tell you this especially to you, but not personally to you! That thought reads: "If you keep your mouth shut, someone might think you're stupid. [[Laughter loudly from ISN.]] But when you open your mouth, you can confirm those doubts. " - That was it, thank you. [[Burning applause from ICN, IBGNI, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u234	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Mr. Marinov, will you take advantage of the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stanev, not the first time I said it last time, and I will still confirm that the police have always been used for political purposes for those who through it want to get into the focus of society and come to the National Assembly, and I will always stand behind this thing. So that was my line to make it clear so it wouldn't come out of context. We know how in a show something out of context comes true, so thank you for giving me the floor to be clear from here on out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u236	Thank you. Mr. Bojankov, for what? You've already spoken on that point! [[Heckling]] Mr. Tafrov, you asked for the floor before Mr. Atanasov. Okay, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u237	Thank you, Madam President. I, because this is the first time I take the floor in this National Assembly, will allow myself to call on all my colleagues: let us work for what the people have sent us here! I have an editorial amendment that I will propose relating to the implementation of the SRS, but before that, I was tempted by what I heard about the protests. You know, back in 1987, it had happened that as an intern at the Ruse District Court, I fell into the protests that the Russians were making against the dirty air. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] Then I have not seen such outrage since the then militia, as we have now seen here in the center of Sofia. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The editorial amendment, please, is stated in the text:.. and circumstances related to eavesdropping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties. Since under the Special Intelligence Means Act, the methods that are applied are much more accurate to record:.. and circumstances related to the implementation of special intelligence means in relation to protesters citizens............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There are others that are even more interesting and should be visible how they were used. And a few words in that direction. I will also be a member of this committee if the House votes this. It is very important how all the facts and circumstances related to this verification will be collected. Because look what happened in the public domain in the last week. The Office's Interior Minister said that the rules regarding the application of special intelligence funds were brutally violated and the next day the Special Prosecutor's Office said: "There is no such thing! " There is no such thing because the prosecution, using its powers, or, more precisely, abusing its powers, apologize for the expression that I will use, has sucked all those facts and circumstances that incriminate the authorities that apply special intelligence funds and have taken them back into the cash register. That's why they say there are no violations. It is therefore necessary to require, in the order of parliamentary control, all the facts and circumstances of all bodies, in order to be able to, except to establish whether or not there has been any misuse of special intelligence means, and to violate the legislation, that this committee should finally have reason to provide and propose relevant proposals in the legislation to close certain loopholes which, during the management of GERB, have been inserted into the Special Intelligence Means Act and allow for abuse. For example, when it was adopted for the first time in the distant 1994, the first Special Intelligence Act, the prosecution was not foreseen as an applicant authority for special intelligence means, it was absolutely correct. Because the prosecution is a supervisory authority, not to implement operational methods of the executive. Now they say, "Well, there's no violation." Well, because it's from the D.A.'s office of pre-trial proceedings under art. 95 for a coup, they wanted special intelligence to be applied to uncomfortable people, and now they've hidden there, but we know which cases they're in. Yeah, we know them! So, among other things, I am telling you right now that I am going to propose to remove myself from the circle of authorities who are entitled to make requests for the implementation of special investigative means of the prosecution, because it is not her job. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u238	Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tafrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u239	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor to remind you that the victim of police violence during the protests became not only protesters, unfortunately, but the victim became Bulgarian journalists. The case of the journalist Dimitar Kenarov, who tried to legitimize himself very clearly, but was hit and kicked with Cubans, after which, as the police said, he was invited to a conversation at the police station, as a result of which he returned with bruises, bruises and was appropriately certified by the medical authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty as MPs to defend the right of Bulgarian journalists to work, including when there is public tensions. That is why I propose to the members of the Commission to invite the journalist Dimitar Kenarov and other journalists who were beaten during these protests, because otherwise Bulgaria will continue to fall into the ranking on freedom of the media and, if I am not mistaken, we are currently 112th place. We must put an end to this process! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u240	Thank you, Mr. Tafrov. [[Applause from DB.]] Line. I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u241	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to return the debate to our proposal from the GERB-SDS Group for this to be added to the topic of this committee to the violence against police, because we also want all the facts and circumstances related to the protests. I don't see what could prevent us from investigating facts and circumstances of possible violence against protesters? What could prevent an objective and complete examination of this case and of this if we investigate the violence against police officers? On the subject of wiretaps, I would just like to add that this is indeed an extremely important topic for our society, to which it is extremely sensitive, but we must not forget that individuals with multiple criminal charges, who are hiding from justice, tried during these protests to enter politics and make political sacrifices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u242	Thank you, Mr. Terziysky. Here's a line, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u243	Dear Mr Terziyski, with your speech you outlined three trends. The first is everyone's fault to fall into the stands. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's obvious we're on the day of revelations when you admitted that you first ruled with the DPS. Thank you. Secondly, that the Ministry of Interior has been used for political purposes and that is clearly in your norms and in your value system. The third thing that is particularly disturbing is to hide behind the back of a regular police officer. Your strategy during the protests was to overwhelm the protesters verbally, and in the end to make them violent. There's a big one, and that's why we were there and we saw what happened. On the night that gentlemen the government pulled out the water cannons against the protesters or against those who were provocators, I was there and I saw with my own eyes that these were no more than 50 people, and in their rear there were hundreds of policemen who were passive. This cannot happen without your orders and you will not hide behind the back of the officers. You will not hide, and by trying to add something else to a committee once again and thus to divorce the committee. I hope that you will not destroy this committee by coming in a staff of 30 MPs and try physically and verbally to ruin its meetings. I don't think you'll be able to hide this time! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u244	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you go for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u245	I wonder why the gentlemen of GERB so insult the police, insisting on the subject of the investigation of violence against police officers to be included in this committee. For these officers, you claim in practice that they are incapable of investigating this violence against themselves. That's how you insult them, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u246	Thank you. For the third line, Mr. Babikan? Mr. Babikan, you don't have time, unfortunately. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge? Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u247	Dear Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to have the backrest. Dear Mr. Bojankov, we are going back to the beginning that sentences are already being issued and to what the Commission will reach before it starts to work "who is guilty and who is not." Yes, if I am guilty, let me take responsibility, and if any police officer is guilty, let him take responsibility. But the police, who have been involved in the security of all protests, matches, events, guarding state institutions since the dawn of democracy, defending the honour of parliament. For the first time, eggs, tomatoes were thrown at the Ministry of Interior and I still don't know what the Ministry of Interior is! [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, the Interior Minister may be guilty of something, but throw the eggs at him and not at the institution. That's why I say: let's respect police work. These people have families, they have to go home at night and pet their children, and maybe some of them were at the protest!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u248	You beat up their kids!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u249	Please be quiet, Mr. Hadjigenov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u250	Because I have fellow policemen who said, "Yes, and my children, the young children were at this protest. We're guarding the peaceful protesters. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u251	Thank you. To speak, Mrs. Naydenova, would you like to speak? No. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that if someone humiliated the people who work at the Ministry of Interior, these are the government. These people were forced, including those brought against the peaceful protesters, to perjure themselves in a court of law. A police officer with the appearance of Mr. Manev at a hearing because he exhaled at the prosecution's thesis, the gentleman said he was mentally and physically abused by a lady meters and 50 feet high because she had pushed him, only to continue the terror with all the insolence you had against the protesters. Stop going out like Mr. Bojankov said, because it's funny! Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u254	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I'm tired of telling you I'm not laughing how you're all competing here to be a bigger protestor. And I have been involved in protests against Oresharski and against the Triple Coalition, and I have never acted as a protester, as a bit of a bitch, and almost how the state has crushed me, but I have simply protested and expressed my free will. However, colleagues, as MPs, remember something else: we have sworn to defend the Constitution, the law and the laws of this country. There are always two sides to the coin! [[Laughter]] It's very funny to you, but you might find yourself in this situation tomorrow, right?! So let's not forget this debate. The right is to be able to protest, but the duty is to respect the order and laws of this country. I'm sorry, but you've charmed the whole of Sofia. If some people have been dissatisfied and protested, among which I have had many friends of mine, I do not live in a pot, I have friends who support my policy, my party, but there are people who do not support GERB. I communicate with them every single day, and they're my friends, they've been to the protest, and we're arguing about it. I'm sure those people I know didn't throw tomatoes, fish, eggs, pavement and all kinds of material in there, did they? So when we talk about law, we have to respect and look at both sides of the coin. The other day in the United States, there was a first conviction that one of the protesters, who was a protester, broke into the Capitol. How do we respond to this news?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u255	Is it the same?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u256	I'm very interested, and the biggest question I haven't heard an answer to in over a year since summer is: what if the police hadn't been there? [[Replying: we would have swept you away!]] Here is the answer you have heard, fellow Members, from the Chamber we were going to sweep you away, I have nothing more to add. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u257	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u258	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Nenkov! Madam President, can you make a remark to this man with weak nerves who sits right there all the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u259	Mr. Hadjigenov, take your place!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u260	Either take your pills or leave the room! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u261	Mr. Bikov, don't get into an argument with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u262	Dear Mr. Nenkov, you neglected to add the following to this House there are very few protesters! Yes, there were some people who put in a speaker, took some microphones and declared themselves guides to some cute young people who came out at first to express their opinion and they were really nice. They were the ones with the speaker, where they put it in front of them and made themselves leaders. There are people here who are in parliament because of the protests, Mr. Nenkov, not because they participated there! I didn't see Stanislav Trifonov or Mr. Toshko there. [[Noise and lines.]] I saw some other people who took a little walk there...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u263	You couldn't have seen them!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u264	Mrs. Vassileva, don't get into an argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u265	...and managed to enter parliament because of these protests. Those people who were there, they're not here. [[(Noise and lines from ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u266	They go to work. Who came in? For example, was the chief of the cabinet of Boyko Rashkov protesting, who is the founder of the party of Vasil Bozhkov? Was she part of that protest? Was Vassil Bozhkov part of this protest? I want one of you to say here because we heard some recordings of you leading 10,000 people there. Was it part of it?! Mr. Hadjigenov, for example, is he a lawyer of Vasil Bozhkov's family or not? Is it Vasil Bozhkov's family's lawyer? [[IHN lines]] I don't know, you tell me. Did you defend Tsvetan Vassilev by any chance? And Mrs. Doncheva is also the lawyer of the family of... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u267	Mr. Bikov, your cue time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u268	Here they can make personal explanations. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u269	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u270	Well, I'll tell you: yes, they are lawyers. They're lawyers! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u271	For a second line? I won't. Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u272	A brief answer to the question: what would have happened if the police hadn't been there? I would like to remind you that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have law enforcement functions. [[Noise and lines.]] In this sense, it must be clear that the authorities of the police have never been involved in this opportunity to beat protesters citizens. I can rhetorically ask one question: after there have been such attempts at coup, there have been vandalized cases, how many convicts have entered into force, supported by good evidence, of course, with maximum protection of the citizens there are decreed by the Bulgarian court a year later? I can tell you: I won't. There are no proven accusations like this, but the beaten man was beaten.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u273	Thank you. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u274	Dear Mr. Nenkov, in your speech you give the appearance of a well-informed person who has thrown eggs, which fish, who bakes, but I ask the question: Have you actually seen this and whether you are so well-informed because the only memory I have of you personally at the protest is your legendary picture of you hiding behind a pot, a curtain and a window peeking with one eye on the protesters. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u275	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u276	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bojankov, you're too low. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As far as the other line is concerned, by the way, look, outside the bad play that just played with the Rosenets, and how you want to play at some big protesters, haters, you'll pass the time, the time will come when people will take responsibility for what you've done will come. The fairy tales, the Facebook, the social networks end next week, the next week ends! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] On the subject of violence. I said before: the coin has two sides. I'm not defending anyone, I'm not defending police violence. If there is one, responsibility should be borne, as for any other topic, even for corruption, it is a personal act, and whoever has done something wrong must bear responsibility, including the police. But you have to bear your responsibility and not pretend to be blind, for there were people who did so that the peaceful protest and the people I told you about, who I know, and I'm sure they didn't participate in these things, they also have to bear their responsibility if we want to live in some normal, democratic, rule of law. If we want to get on the streets and off the streets, it is heavyò and Gorkò of this country. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u277	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. For a personal explanation? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u278	It's a personal explanation. My daddy, my darling, I can give you pictures and videos, and in this part of the room, there are people in this room that we were together at the protests and who can under oath say who was there. But you weren't there, Dad. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u279	Mr. Hadjigenov, will you use a personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, when militiamen and unsuccessful actors speak of law, it looks like this. So it happened that you came into my office yesterday because I really am no lawyer, another decision about beaten and detained children right under the columns. The only girl whose shirt was torn by your employees. Your employees, quite legally, apparently, were filming with their phones. Quite legally, notice, they were handcuffed, they were beaten afterwards. And quite legally, according to you, the two militiamen were sprayed into their eyes, tied to the ground, tear gas. It's legal, isn't it?! Is it legal?! Guess what the court has decided: this is all illegal, gentlemen. Welcome to my world to the weak lawyers in which the militia doesn't matter. And yes, on the occasion of the line on both sides of the coin, it is good to learn that the police baton has two sides as well, and we were on the long side, and they held the baton. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u281	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Mrs. Vasileva, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u282	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'm making a procedural proposal to extend working hours by two hours. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u283	A counteroffer? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] There's no such requirement. In which text of the Rules? Can you refer to the Rules of Procedure? [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] There isn't one. There is a requirement for the breaks, but for the extension of time... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Oh, okay. A counteroffer? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 165 MPs: 114, against 36, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Mr. Balabanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Dad. [[noise and lines]] I'll tell you what the truth was about these protests, because while they were going on for almost a year, you, leaning into the bunny shop, pretended they were gone. Right, Dad? Every night we were at these protests for 200 days from day one, if you do not understand. Personally, I talked to the protesters every night and we covered them on our television. My colleagues Mr. Yordanov, Philip Stanev, fellow writers, attended these protests. My general impression of the people's opinion of these protests was that they hated you for free. They wanted your resignation and, in fact, whether by their actions or de facto, they have already received it. Yes, these protests were beaten and humiliated people................. Bulgarian citizens.................................................................... And when Mr. Marinov says that there is no evidence that peaceful citizens were beaten at this protest, I can remind him of what happened to this 20-year-old young man who was beaten and humiliated on the second night, the girl too. Colleague journalists have also been beaten at these protests, because you, except by force, have been unable to counter these protests, and that is clear to everyone in this House, so please! The protests were carried out with one goal only to make you go away. And you're gone! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u285	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. A line? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u286	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Balabanov! Son, I hope the other groups will accept this address to me, not only yours, I would be honored to be the parent of such promising children. Secondly, I will make you an offer. You will enter the management.. set up an institution of active fighters, and all who have been there, take a photo and make you active fighters, so that you do not have to explain everyone when you go out on the stand, say: I was there. It turns out that after 9 September, the guerrilla movement was over 100,000 people, and it wasn't that much. Sons and daughters then became and they active wrestlers, so to this day and some grandchildren continue to be active wrestlers. At least let's institutionalize this concept of who was there, who wasn't there, and it doesn't matter what is important now that everyone is declared, and then who has gone, who hasn't walked doesn't matter. But you turn this topic into something that people who really got hurt on both sides, because there were cops like that, and they were on TV all the time, and you could see who was throwing what there. There were people throwing bombs, and the police were standing under that canonade. This is a fact, and this fact is also remembered. The revolution, my colleagues, is yet to experience a collapse and you will be eaten by those you have appointed yourself to be leaders. [[Voices from ISN: "Dad, Daddy, Daddy! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u287	Quiet, please! Anybody want a second line? Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u288	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam President, fellow Members! I think that, as we have started, we will at all solve all the issues that the committee has to resolve. In fact, we're here right now to decide whether or not to have such a committee. We will support the existence of such a committee, as we all know that there has been violence, there has been violence against police officers. Another question is by whom and how this violence against police officers was organised and for what purpose it was done. The truly respected Mr. Manev made the offer, so I would say that I expected a little more from him. I expected him to know that when we have an assault on a police officer, it's attempted murder and so on, it's a felony that should be brought to justice to investigate. But when we have committed violations and crimes by authorities of state, such as the police authorities, when we have a doubt about hidden checks and hidden facts in relation to these things, then a higher authority in the state should be dealt with, namely this is the National Assembly, and with the methods that the National Assembly has, it can actually establish what the truth is. Regarding the wiretap. The colleagues have been comprehensive enough and I have nothing more to say about them, so I also believe that we should vote on this committee as proposed. Mr. Manev, you can refer to the Attorney General as long as he is still the Attorney General and if his diploma is valid, that some information has come out that it is not valid. We don't know that, we just read the Internet. I am convinced that the Bulgarian police and the Bulgarian investigative bodies will do their job well and if there are citizens of the protest who were police and put their lives in danger, they will be punished, believe me! And we, the committee, let us do our job....................... the state authorities have done their work? When we vote on this committee, let her do her job. Otherwise, we'll do the job the committee has to do. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u289	Thank you. Mr. Manev, we have to run out of lines first. Do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u290	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u291	It's a personal explanation when you're affected. You were only mentioned. [[Heckling]] You were mentioned personally and by name, but you were not affected personally and by name in my opinion, but, well. I'm giving you the floor for a personal explanation if there are no other lines to find out what you're affected by. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u292	Madam President, I'm not going to report this to my father. I felt only one thing concerned by my colleague's claim that I did not know the law and so on and so forth. In fact, I went out to take advantage of my right to a personal explanation for one single reason. Colleagues, here I started with a first speech this debate to ask you to add to a committee that we believe should exist, two sentences that extend its scope only to the extent that it is also the police. So let's hear if there are illegal uses of the SRS, Mr. Atanasov, against people and during the election campaign for the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Nothing more! But the debate that you have developed, all that has happened in this room and in this stands, shows only one thing to none of you importers, you don't need this committee. You exploit it here, you exploit it on the committee, you hand out your sentences and charges, without any interest in facts or circumstances. Believe me, you're not coming, you're going. Your time is up! [[Laughter, noise and lines from ISN and IBGNI]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u293	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u294	Honourable Members, Madam President! This extremely important item on the agenda has been turned into some kind of circus for paternity, contestation, paternity claims. [[Laughter]] . In this regard, I shall quote Art. 69 of the Family Code: The Father's Origin can be settled by a claim determined by the mother within three years from the birth of the child or by the child up to three years from the age of the child. I ask the subjects who believe that Mr. Bikov is related to them to make them known within the appropriate time limits. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u295	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. For a line? I won't. Statements? I won't. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. Mr. Hadzhigenov at the presentation of the draft decision proposed the basis of the decision to be: "The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and in the operative part to be established. 2, 3 and 4, as follows: "2." The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by two MPs from each parliamentary group. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President Vice-President and Members 4. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u296	There are other suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u297	There's, I know, then we'll vote them out. Mr. Manev has a proposal and Mr. Atanasov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Hadjigenov made the proposal when he imagined the draft decision. In the decision itself he presented a composition and title in his anthetical of the accompanying letter and not in the decision. Vote now Mr. Hadjigenov's proposal. Vote 208 MPs: for 199, against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will now read you the proposal made by Mr. Manev. In the name of the decision, etc. 1 of the decision, the text shall be as follows: "Project for a decision to establish a Temporary Commission for the Investigation of Facts and Circumstances in the Use of Tear Gas, the Use of Power and Assistance from the Ministry of Interior, carried out on 10 July and 2 September 2020 against protesters citizens and violations against officials from the Ministry of Interior, as well as the facts relating to illegal wiretapping and monitoring of protesters citizens, opposition leaders and members of political parties, including for the period of the election campaign for the Forty-sixth National Assembly. Please, voting mode. They voted 211 MPs: 77, against 130, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. And now Mr. Atanasov's proposal: The words in the name of the decision, etc. 1 of the decision to replace eavesdropping and monitoring with the use of special intelligence resources. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 136 against 16, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I now vote on the draft decision together with the proposals so adopted. They voted 199 MPs: 188, against 1, abstention 10. The proposal is adopted with this and the draft decision. I ask each parliamentary group to make their proposals on the composition of the committee. There's such a people. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u298	Mrs. President, honourable Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "There is such a people" we propose as members of the committee Professor Nikolay Radulov and Svetlin Stoyanov, as Professor Radulov we also propose him as Vice-President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u299	Thank you. From GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u300	On behalf of the Coalition GERB-SDZ as members of the commission we propose Mladen Marinov and Toma Bikov. [[Noise and lines from ISN and IBGNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u301	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u302	Dear Madam President, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u303	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Atanas Atanasov and Mr. Nikolay Hristov are offered on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u305	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u306	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we propose Mr. Ahmed Ahmedov and Mr. Guner Ahmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u307	Thank you. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u308	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of Stand up BG! We are coming! suppose Nikolai Hadjigenov for Chairman and Arman Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u309	Thank you. I give you my word, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u310	Madam President, honourable Members? I am making the procedure for Mladen Marinov to be voted separately because during the period which will investigate this commission, he is one of the guilty ones to happen and is in conflict of interest [[Applause from ICN and IBGN]] So I personally wouldn't support it, and I'm just asking that it be voted on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u311	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. A counteroffer, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u312	Madam President, my opposite proposal relates to the fact that, under the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, firstly, any Member of the National Assembly may be proposed for any electoral position within any temporary committee, permanent committee or in the management of the National Assembly. And in these cases, since it is not proposed in the decision to vote separately, I believe that it should be voted in whole. Secondly, I would like to say that Mr. Mirchev, despite the repeated notation that this tribune of the National Assembly should not become a tribunal issuing sentences, again allows himself to declare someone guilty or innocent, and I think that you should make him the slightest remark. I therefore believe that the procedure is irrelevant to the composition of the Commission and that its composition should be voted in whole, as has always been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u313	Mrs. Atanasova, at the moment the decision lacks the text that the composition is voted in whole and only the parital principle is recorded. So if Mr. Mirchev makes a proposal for a separate vote of all members...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u314	No, just this one!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u315	Just this one, okay. I put to the vote Mr. Mirchev's procedural proposal for a separate vote on the proposed candidate by GERB-SDS. Vote 195 MPs: 136 against 55, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please, voting regime for the candidates proposed by "There is such a people"...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're coming for members of the committee. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I mentioned all the groups. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm calling off the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of GERB-SDS as a member of the committee for Mr. Mladen Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u316	What happens if we don't accept it? It's a complete disgrace! Whatever you want to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u317	Vote 215 MPs: 79, against 135, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from IHN.]] I shall put to the vote the other proposals made for members of the committee, including the Chair and Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u318	It contradicts the decision... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u319	There's no obstacle. Vote 178 MPs: 152, against 20, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS there is no obstacle to proposing a new candidate according to the so-called decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u320	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u321	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u322	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u323	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing procedure in the manner of conduct. I thought that the forty-fifth parliament had reached the bottom, which could mark the presence of certain MPs to give their contribution to the legislation, and the decisions that were taken with the moratorium on which we still expect the Constitutional Court to give a ruling on whether it is unconstitutional or not. Today, however, I notice, colleagues, that you keep digging. Breaking our own decision about the money principle in drawing up this committee is indeed further from the bottom. I'm ashamed of you for making such a decision! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. In this case, it is not a violation of the paradigm principle. The parietal principle is in the solution, it is respected and may be respected. There is no obstacle to the decision GERB-SDS so adopted to propose its candidate, but a procedural proposal has been made in the room for a separate vote. The decision lacked the way to vote, so I had to put it to the vote. Once there are obstructions and the MPs express their attitude towards the candidacy of a candidate proposed by you, it shall be decided by votes in the plenary. That's the result. So if you want, you can make a new proposal for a member of the committee. Thank you. Mr. Nenkov, what is your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u325	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Look, we've offered a colleague or two, it doesn't matter. None of the other parliamentary groups have the right to support him whether he likes it or not. Madam President, this is to you, you have made a mistake in making such a procedure at all. Never in this parliament, at least since I've been here, has anything like this happened. This means that if I do not like a colleague, for example, from the BSP for Bulgaria, who will be my colleague in the committee, not to support him. I'm sorry, but this is really a rude violation of parliamentaryism, and there is no way that you would have such a decision to humiliate our parliamentary group because this is humiliation. That is precisely why GERB-SDS will simply not propose other members of this committee. Do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u327	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. [[Replications between the MPs Nikolai Hadzhigenov and Alexander Nenkov.]] Once again, this is the way and will of the Members of the National Assembly. If it wasn't for a vote, and every group has the right to propose this is a fact, yes, we can't do obstructions. But when it comes to voting by the MPs, that is the vote. Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u328	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, it is ultimately unacceptable in a committee that will deal with the investigation, or as you wish to understand it, of the facts and circumstances that happened last year, a member of this committee to be a person responsible for the behaviour of his subordinates at that time! He's an interested person! It has to be impartial... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You have the right to propose another person! No one deprives you of the parietal principle! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This man was Minister of the Interior and is responsible for what was happening in the squares last year in Sofia? You want him to go inside to investigate himself! It's unacceptable! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u329	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u330	Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u331	Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. We are not going to explain now that this is a precedent that parliamentaryism must be respected. These are absolute, meaningless to you, dear colleagues, words! For you, I repeat, it is important that you practice, that you have PRs, that you have campaign campaigns. Just one thing I'm going to tell you is the humiliation, your attempts to humiliate individual MPs, how someone here said it, are a two-end baton, something like that. Everything comes back to this life, only what is happening now determines that from the organizers of these protests that are here in the Chamber, one will become the chairman of this committee, the other stands behind it and is proposed, and the elected May I do not know if the vote has passed, for a member of this committee... [[(a line from the National Representative Nikolai Hadjigenov: I'm looking forward to it!]] [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]] Don't tell me, please. So these people, who put the Bulgarian citizens to what happened a year ago, had nothing to do with the research of all the facts and circumstances of what happened, and the political director of the Ministry, who did not make the decisions about the operations that were being carried out during all this, but took them the Secretary General of the Ministry, who was what at the moment?! [[Heckling]] These people had nothing to do with it, and he had something to do with it! And they'll probably call him on this committee to want to hear it, I guess! Well, I'm not coming if I'm him! I don't mind him, but I'm not coming! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u332	Thank you, Mr. Manev. I'll answer you too. In accordance with art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is explicitly stated that the heads and members of the Standing Committees shall be elected on a proposal from the Parliamentary Groups or Members of the National Assembly with a clear vote in full, unless an objection has been made against any of the proposed candidates. So this is a procedure in the Rules. The rules for Standing Committees under the same Rules shall also apply to Temporary Committees. Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u333	Madam President, I would like to draw attention to and say on behalf of our parliamentary group that our vote against the election as a member of Mr Marinov's committee is not related to his personality and in no way do you take this vote as an act that expresses a lack of respect for a Member of the National Assembly. We believe that his participation in this committee will put him in conflict of interest for several reasons, as this committee, apart from police violence, will also deal with the implementation of special intelligence means. However, the services that are committed and involved in the illegal wiretapping of protesting journalists and opposition politicians were precisely under his authority................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, the reason why we do not agree to include him in the committee without putting his person under discussion here in any way - he is a MP, he was elected by the Bulgarian citizens, but especially in this committee we have no way of not remembering the reasons with which your leader Mr. Borisov removed him from the management of the Ministry of Interior. One motive was because of over-police violence during the protests. So we think that it is better for Mr. Marinov himself not to participate in this committee. Offer another member. Otherwise, I agree that these are extremely rare cases where Parliament does not comply with the will of a parliamentary group that broadcasts a member. But at the moment we really believe that it is also in the interest of Mr. Marinov himself not to participate in this committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Bikov, and you in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u335	Madam President, first of all, we refuse to accept such criteria here some are being created: I think that you should not suggest I do not know who you are. There is no such criterion and such a criterion has never happened!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u336	It's a conflict of interest!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u337	Conflict of interest has the people who protested in that case. [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]] There's no conflict of interest. By which law is there a conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u338	Under the Act of Dramaturgy!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u339	There's no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u340	Mr. Bikov, what is the specific violation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u341	Just to say that there is a parliament in order to hear all points of view, this must be known, this is a fundamental issue. If you are not able to listen to the points of view, not even to understand them, but to listen to them, to accept that there can just be another point of view, then you have entered into a very heavy movie! [[SIGHS]] You're in a very heavy movie! That's not the way to deal with it! And here I turn to "Democratic Bulgaria" and not to another, to "Democratic Bulgaria": all the stories of pluralism, for expression of opinion, for freedom of speech, for human rights, for legality ended here with this vote. Any Member of the National Assembly may be a member of that Committee. Everyone! [[Noise and lines.]] Is that right? Yeah, the revolutionary people's power might think so. Only that the people's power, colleagues, will at some point fall. And it will fall because you will tear it down, not us! Have a good time, along with the five parties of change. Thank you. [[Noise, lines, applause by IBGNI, DB, GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u342	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. This item has exhausted this item from the agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Babikan, what you just did, Mr. Bikov, it wasn't the way you led it. [[Noise and lines from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u343	That is precisely why I wanted the floor, because this speech was not in the way of conduct. And it's not about anyone coming here to read morale. Let's not kid ourselves. In return, Hermann Goering would have participated on the other side of the Nuremberg trial. Maybe there's a reason?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u344	Who's Hermann Goering?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u345	I'll explain later. [[Noise, lines, I.T. laughs]] From then on, let's understand what this committee is about, what is it intended for? And let's just remember something simple, yeah, maybe some of the rulers are standing here, others probably aren't standing. And no, this committee doesn't pronounce sentences! But don't try to wipe your dirty shoes with the uniforms of the regular officers and explain to me that one was wrong, the other was holding the baton and the third was guarding the building! Our police guard us!Song was played in a song, but who protects the power or the people? Who is this policeman protecting?! [[Noise and lines.]] You kept the power. We insist on protecting the people because we pay these taxes. And you've got to understand...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u346	They Communists have been guarding for 45 years!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u347	Talk to the Communists about the Communists!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u348	Mr. Babikan, in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u349	I want you to be aware not to abuse this, because our women and children...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u350	Mr. Babikan...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u351	...guarded the police...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u352	...that's not the way to keep it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u353	...not you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u354	You partisans!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u355	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE REVISION OF VALUATION AND DISCLOSURES BY THE MINISTER COUNCIL, MINISTERIES, STATE AUTHORITIES, STATE AND GENERALS, COMPANIES OF MORE THAN 50 OF THE WTO STATE, STATE AND GENERAL PARTICIPATION AND LOCAL POWERS IN THE LAST 5 YEARS. Please provide one of the importers with the draft decision and the reasons for the decision. [[Heckling]] What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u356	With just one sentence. I'm taking a reprieve from this committee. We won't be part of it. Have a good meeting! [[Applause from GERB-SDS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u357	Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u358	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise and lines. The MPs from GERB-SDS are leaving the hall.]] Wait a minute...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u359	Wait, there's some noise. Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u360	Sorry, I waited for them to leave. Madam President, honourable Members! We promised the Bulgarian citizens in the 45th Parliament that we proposed the establishment of a Committee on Revision, which was established with the support of all parliamentary groups and which, as a result of its five meetings held in the previous Parliament, gathered huge public support. The establishment of this committee and the participation of citizens and representatives of small businesses in it was a step towards opening the parliament for citizens and starting the return of trust in this highest institution in Bulgaria. In addition, the Commission's work has shown that the power that institutions can have the same agenda as Bulgarian citizens and that as a result the citizens win. The checks that were carried out on the alerts, including the personal involvement of citizens who testified to unfair pressure on them, for the use of institutions such as....................................... have led to the light of various corruption schemes that exist in different sectors of public life and the truth about the spending of billions of people's money has been seen. It is good that the caretaker government continued the themes of the starting list in the work of this committee and through the efforts of the ministers of the service part of these corruption schemes from the violation of the Public Procurement Act, from the way they had given advance hundreds of millions of levs, from the way in which millions of levs were literally wasted, all of this eventually came out and people were able to see the truth. In fact, the themes for the Bulgarian Development Bank, for the Automagistrals, for the Montage, for the Sanning Program, for the Reservoir Management Company, for the Turkish Stream. The topics that were previously raised by the opposition were highlighted and the truth about them was presented to the Bulgarian society. Here the question was asked why, since the executive government in the caretaker government is committed to revealing the whole truth on the main topics on which the Committee on Revision worked, why, after this has happened in the caretaker government, why, when, most likely, there will soon be a new, regular government, which will continue to illuminate the truth, must also be set up a parliamentary committee? Our answer to the parliamentary group Stand up BG! It is because this way we will give the Bulgarian citizens, the honest business, the small entrepreneurs, the small companies to find their tribune to come here in the center of Sofia, in the center of Bulgaria, in the highest Bulgarian institution to present the problems, to present the pressure, the crushing, the extortion, the racketeering to which they have been subjected. This is really the way the voice of citizens and businesses can be heard. This is how a state body, such as the Commission, will become an institutional body, to become a platform, support and protection of people and businesses, entrepreneurs who need it. Therefore, I expect, as the signatures for this committee were quickly collected, that it will receive support from all parliamentary groups, because this will be a test of which parliamentary group supports and where it stands to illuminate the truth about corruption practices that have sucked millions, billions of leva public money. And yes, today in Parliament on the occasion of the vote of the Commission on "Rosenets" it was said that there are places in Bulgaria, people, sectors that are absolutely untouchable, which are untouchable and inaccessible to ordinary citizens. There are other places like this, and there are very few of them. For example, hunting farms with hunting lodges in them that are inaccessible and forbidden to the Bulgarian citizens will not be listed in the "Vitoshko" "Studena", "Palamara" and others in which we, as civil activists, have tried to see whether it can be entered and how the Bulgarian elite is actually entertained. These are absolutely inaccessible places for ordinary people. Or, for example, parts of Bulgarian territory at border crossing points, which are dedicated to private companies and have been turned into gold crates for certain close-to-power businesses. I also mean the great gourd of the border. There is such in a large part of the border crossing an activity from which instead of the state to profit benefit private companies. I am also referring to the Golden Laboratory there, and I am referring to the anomalies why the state does not make parking lots at the borders, given the intensity of movement, has left this entirely to be an activity and monopoly of private companies. There are many topics that could be added, and therefore the list of proposals in the Project for a solution is indicative. For example, we have said that any other topic that is important to Bulgarian citizens can be put on the table. Every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of where he has encountered corruption practices or the racketeering of the institutions, will be able to come, complain, seek and find protection. That's why we left free theme to be raised. I am sure that also the Commissioners to be proposed will be elected, we will show maximum tolerance for everyone to be heard and everyone to be supported. Finally, I would say that I very much agree with which political formations are of change, which are of the status quo is a matter which should not be subject to prior labelling. After all, in the cases, in the decisions, in the votes of the various political formations, people will make their own conclusions about who chose the change and who decided to defend the status quo. I think the vote on this committee will also be such a kind of stress for the formations in the Bulgarian Parliament, and we are already seeing the first party that did not support it, which left so that it would not participate and not vote in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mrs. Manolova, would you like to read the Project Decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u362	Does it have to be long? Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Audit for the Establishment of Abuses and Disruptions in the Spending of Funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state bodies, state and municipal enterprises, companies with more than 50 per cent of state and municipal participation and local authorities over the last 5 years The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He set up a Temporary Committee on Revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state bodies, state and municipal enterprises, companies with more than 50 percent state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last 5 years. The Temporary Commission shall examine the appropriateness and legality, such as: - the allocation of state budget funds by decrees or decisions of the Council of Ministers; - the implementation of the activity, including the revenues and expenses of the state companies.Authomagistrali, Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture and Industry, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of - the activity of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. - the spending of the funds under the National Program of Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings, under the project "Energy renovation of Bulgarian homes", by the International Fund of Kozloduy (non-nuclear window), by the Fund of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources and by the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria (Fund of Funds) ; - the implementation of the activity, including the revenues and expenses of municipal enterprises and companies, as well as of local authorities; - the financing of measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic by means of the state budget, the amount of aid and compliance with reasonable deadlines for support for those affected by COVID-19 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; - the conclusion and implementation of concession contracts, as well as the implementation of effective control over concessionaires in the protection of the public interest; - the award, execution and control of the execution of large public contracts; - the implementation of the activities of the Bulgarian Development Bank; the participation of offshore companies in the absorption of public funds; pension companies and their state; the trade attaché; the Road Safety Fund of the Ministry of Interior; the funds given over the years for electronic management and e-government; the National Railway Infrastructure Company; the provision of Bulgarian citizenship; the programs for modernization of the army; the renovation programmes of the dams; the water sector; the heating and water companies; the means for the construction and repair of roads and highways, hydroelectric power plants and their property; the means for overcoming the consequences of the COVID crisis and the reasons for the highest mortality noted in the Republic of Bulgaria during the pandemic, the activities of NHIFK related to the treatment of children abroad; - forestry farms and enterprises; - the payment of additional remuneration in the administration and of remuneration for participation in boards of civil servants, including a public announcement of the persons who have authorised and received them; - the authorisations, means and costs of the use of special intelligence means; - control and security activities at border crossing points. 2. The temporary committee shall collect information and documents for the detection of abuses or infringements of the activities of the abovementioned authorities and undertakings and shall be obliged to examine all alerts received to the Commission as well as publicly available data on infringements. 3. The temporary committee must examine and analyse the financial statements, bank and cash returns, expenditure and other accounting documents of the state and municipal authorities, undertakings and companies, with more than 50 per cent of state participation, on which it finds that there are unregulated costs, whether the counterclaims due and duly collected are state, municipal and corporate claims under contracts, penalties and penalties. 4. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the results of the work, findings made, detected infringements and proposals to take appropriate measures by the responsible institutions. 5. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by three MPs from each parliamentary group. 6. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President: Vice-President: Members: 7. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of six months.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u364	Time me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u365	No, you introduced, you were in the time of an importer. Can I just have the Project? Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Kadyev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u366	Dear colleagues! I hope that if we're less, we can go back to professionalism and not be so clever. I will support the establishment of this committee. Colleagues from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria will also support, even though there is a resonant in the fact that the caretaker government and every government should do this job, but there is a resonant in that there is more publicity. The voter assigned us to build the model "Borisov" and the model "Borisov" are defined relatively easily. If you are close to me, you have business and work, if you are away from me, you have no business, there are some bats that beat you. And our task, again, is to decorate this model, and I look at this committee as part of the breakdown of the model. The Commission has a very large scope, goes through identity documents, power plants, power plants, BEH, whatever you think, extremely ambitious, hopefully manage at least partially because this is work for many years. However, there are two things, even three things that I think should be outside the scope of the Commission. The first is pension companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u367	Are you proposing to drop pension funds?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u368	The Commission deals with abuse of state funds and municipal, pension companies operate by means of natural persons. I don't know why he's in there, but if they're in there, then it should be banks, insurance companies and everything. It's all or nothing. The second thing is permission, funds and expenditures for the SRS. Perhaps you should explain why it was inserted, because the subject of the SRS endorsements is the subject of the previous committee that we have been discussing. I don't see much point in looking at SRS clearances here either. The third topic that I had asked myself as a question is the activities of security and control of the border crossing. Thank you, I understand from Mrs. Manolova what she means, I agree it should be investigated, so once again, you have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u369	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For lines? [[IHN lines]] Yes, he made an offer, Mr. Kadyev, I get it. - What's the line? Mrs. Manolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u370	Since Mr. Kadiev asked a question, I use the line to answer his question regarding the funds used to implement special intelligence means. As we are among the victims of their illegal implementation over the last more than one year, I have information, including that for the implementation of the SRS, wiretapping, tracking, external monitoring, tracking of correspondence many employees who have worked both Saturday and Sunday have practically worked continuously, which also cost an extremely serious financial resource to secure this activity. On the other hand, it is always possible to identify and implement special intelligence means through funding. So this is the reason why this activity is added, I explain. However, in principle, since we have included inexhaustiblely every other topic, which is of interest to both one of the MPs and individual branch organizations, as well as to the Bulgarian citizens, can be included in the work of this committee. The subject is without restrictions because we certainly cannot predict all sectors and all the pressures that citizens and businesses have been subjected to. Of course, we can't handle all this volume. Ultimately, representatives of all parliamentary groups will enter, so that together we can decide on the topics with which we should start and where to end in six months, given that we have the truly ambitious task of proposing concrete changes in the bodies that should be monitored in a normal country for the failure to run public resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u371	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Any other lines? I can't see. Do you want to do that, Mr. Kadyev, or are you not going to take advantage of it? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u372	Madam President, honourable Members! We from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria will support this committee. There's a lot of motive. And yet we have to realise that 12 years of our total money has been given to a concession of the SIC group. This money has been stolen, drained, it has come to the point that the state has also been scattered to other friends of the prime minister of the SIK group. The Black Sea coast has been given to the Margini brothers, the port of Varna has been given to Maggio, just all building their friendships.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u373	And he's Michalev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u374	He's not my relative. He's not my relative. But look, when you spend total money, you need transparency, you need to follow the schemes. Look for the money. You have to see exactly where it was spent, how it was absorbed, because it's not random to have houses showing up in Barcelona, this money is taken from somewhere. Filling lockers with gold and dough is no accident, this money is taken from somewhere. These funds need to be tracked down how they were used, how they were distributed, so people wouldn't say they had no money for pensions, no money for health care. When we stop the leaks, when we stop the thefts, there will be funds, there will be funds for education. Change means transparency of the management of our common funds. It is important to illuminate all these schemes, it is important to understand who and how he spent the money without government contracts, how they happened, to whom they were given. The Bulgarian citizens sent us to this Parliament with this demand for us. This money has to reach us all. This money must be involved in creating a modern, free, European state, which Bulgaria deserves to be. That is why we will support this committee and participate in it. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u375	Thank you, Mr. Mihalev. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Replys: "No. "]] Mr. Delchev, for a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u376	Madam President, honourable Members! If memory serves, in the 45th National Assembly, it was the audit committee that marked the work of the National Assembly. And it is no coincidence that today we have, on the second working day in practice of this National Assembly, suddenly three committees that come up on the agenda at the same time and should be adopted. Because the Audit Committee two months ago proved that this is a legitimate, appropriate way to conduct checks, investigations and, of course, a public debate on the extraction of the truth. And although it is the last one today in today's sitting, I think that we should vote today on the Revision Committee and continue its work from the 45th National Assembly is one of the most important things we can do today, namely because people want the truth. Bulgarian citizens want to understand why and how this dirty sock, called government over the past 12 years, has become entangled, they want to see the unravel of this dirty sock. And the Committee in Revision is a way to illuminate precisely these dark corners of power over the last 12 years in all sectors, starting from healthcare, where there are currently scandals precisely because of corruption, going through the checkpoints, which have been added to the decision to set up the Commission, even the SRS are an extremely important part of the subject of activity of this committee, because, as we have seen, no one wants to take responsibility for proven listening to protesters. Nobody wants to say who leaked the wiretap permits. It turns out that the Specialized Court denies issuing warrants for eavesdropping and, at the same time, Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev comes out and says: "There is no illegal wiretap, but he doesn't say if there is a legal wiretap." Finally, by drawing the line, through the Revision Committee and through the Commission, which we have just voted on, I hope that we can point to the one who has made Bulgarian citizens to be tapped and there is no result in the state institutions not standing by their actions and not taking responsibility. So, colleagues, we have work to do and I hope that today this half-empty hall will be filled and tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, although it is a holiday period, we will work because after revision, after truth, after justice follows building. Thank you. [[Applause from IBGNI and GB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u377	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Mr. Kadiev, do you support your proposal to drop out of the Project for a decision of: the permissions, funds and costs for the use of the SRS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u378	Thank you, Madam President. After Mrs. Manolova's explanations, I withdraw my proposal for dropping the text: the permissions, funds and expenditures for the SRS. I support my proposal to drop pension companies from the scope of the verification.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u379	And their condition. Isn't that what you want me to say? The expression "retirement companies' and their state.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u380	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u381	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kadiev on the second page of the Decision, the seventh indent, to drop the expression of the pension companies and their state. Vote 141 MPs: 137 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I am now putting this decision to the vote with the proposal already adopted. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, no objection, no abstentions. We are moving on to proposals from the parliamentary groups for Commissioners. I ask such a people to make their proposals to three MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u382	Mr. Vasil Georgiev, Mr. Georgi Georgiev and Mr. Rosen Dimov, we propose Georgi Georgiev as Vice-President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u383	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u384	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am a little worried because I do not know how you will react now by proposing colleagues from our parliamentary group and I do not know if I should have discussed them with you in advance. Because you fought a lot for democracy before the elections, for pluralism, for hearing the opinion of the incoherents, yet with a shy heart and risk to reject them I will suggest Alexander Ivanov, Hristo Gajev and Anna Alexandrova. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u385	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u386	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria "Our proposals are Professor Rumen Gechev, Yavor Bojankov and Hristo Prodanov." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u387	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u388	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Borislav Sandov, Vice-President of the Committee for Revision, and Commissioner Ivan Dimitrov and Vladislav Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u389	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u390	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I propose for three members Mr. Petar Chobanov, Mr. Bajram Bajram and Mrs. Adlen Shevked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u391	Thank you. And stand up BG! We're coming!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u392	Madam President, colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, stand up BG! We are coming!.... we are proposing Maya Manolova for Chairman, Dimitar Delchev and Julian Nenchev for Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u393	Thank you. That's exactly what I was going to say. They became two vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u394	Thank you. We withdraw our proposal for Vice-President for Mr. Georgi Georgiev. Only a member of the Commission remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-07-22.u395	Thank you. In such a case, I shall put to the vote the proposals made for Members of the Commission, including President and Vice-President. They voted 153 MPs: 153, none against, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. And we're done with this item on the agenda. That's what we've run out of agenda for today. In view of our adopted Programme, tomorrow we continue with a hearing of Minister Yanaki Stoilov and Minister Boyko Rashkov. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
