ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2021 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Svilenski for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. As we continue to examine the state budget, it is my procedure to turn on again the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television Channel 1 and the Bulgarian National Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Please vote on the proposal so made. Vote 150 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. For procedure, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, the Minister is here. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. We'll continue the debate. According to the requests made, Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u4	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! This procedure for updating the budget submitted by the office, I believe, needs a slightly deeper analysis or, as it is said, to raise the curtain of this draft budget, which is tabled by the office, if not otherwise, at least because of the fact that it is quite unusual for the office, although it has the right to update the budget, but given the circumstances and the huge media pressure, even the President has included in it with a threat to the National Assembly that if we do not update the budget, he will not fulfil his constitutional obligations. Thank God we got scared and decided to update it. What is this Budget Update Project about? Without any doubt, there is a need for such an update, at least because two consecutive parliaments in a crisis cannot broadcast a regular cabinet, which means that if this third term fails, we will have at least two more months, two and a half months of governance without parliament. In such serious crises as the pandemic and its derivatives, economic, political, perhaps financial, may not be reached, there is no such indication so far, rather such an update is needed. Although if you ask people who are more deeply engaged in the fissure, they will find you at least a few opportunities to cover the additional costs in the current budget. I won't dwell on them. Maybe I'll just tell you that, let's say, for pensions there is for the first half of the year, I think that 430 million more raised from contributions, if memory serves me right, that is, there are more than the insurance contributions envisaged, which has its explanation, of course, in lightening the economy of the business, as a result of the pandemic and the support measures, because if you don't provide, then you can't use 60/40 and so on. My point is that there have been such opportunities for this to happen without this update, but we do not need to exert ourselves fully in the financial capacity of the state once we have the opportunity to make this update. In an update whenever there are costs to be covered additionally, the issue of revenue always pops up first. In our case, we are lucky to predict that tax revenues in particular in the budget will be much higher. This follows from the implementation of revenue for the first half of the year, also from the recovery of the economy. I would like to disprove here immediately the first false statement that the revenue portion of the budget is being accelerated because of some measures taken by the revenue administration. Such a thing, fellow Members, there is no such thing as talk of gullibles. Not everyone is obliged to know, but those who know are obliged to explain to those who do not know, the particular things, the subtleties of these processes. Inflation increases VAT revenues, in this case we have inflation of energy carriers, and not only, growth in the economy also increases, so the more VAT revenues provided, natural persons tax and corporate tax are generally realistic. It is strange, however, why there is no increase in excise revenue, given that his first two appointments were to put his own people at the revenue agencies..................................... and the National Revenue Agency................................................... There can be no raging in the economy, there is no way for tourism to mark such a growth. We are talking about this summer, and there is no increase in excise revenue. This is ridiculous! I just want to remind you that some businesses' savings of excise duties usually go to the election campaign. Let's not distort the political process. So we will propose an increase in excise revenue and, respectively, an increase in costs for people and businesses. This one, first. As soon as this budget was put in place, we at the DPS said it was developed a little bit older custom by the SUV model. Under the model, we point out that for many years the budgets were drawn up by leaving reserves both in the revenue and in the expenditures, which can then, by decrees of the Council of Ministers, internally, be restructuring for other costs at the will of the Council of Ministers or at the will of the Prime Minister, or at the will of the one who drives the SUV in this case. In this case, someone else is driving it. But let's see why this is so in this budget, and why did we say that this budget was drawn up in the same way? Dear colleagues, in art. 42, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act provides for an opportunity in the budget to create a reserve for unforeseen and urgent expenditure. For this reserve we are offered almost a billion and 200 million. Is that correct, Minister, or am I mistaken? This does not have an analogue, as far as I remember, in the last 30 years such a colossal amount directly to go into this reserve. You'll say: pandemic, unknowns, et cetera. No, there's no missing persons, there's nothing unexpected about the expenses offered by the cabinet and nothing urgent. They all even have a calendar graphics plan when they will be executed. And if they are unforeseen, I ask: why are they provided here? Why, though, is this being done? Because further down, another member says that this reserve is being spent by a decree of the Council of Ministers. Now do you understand why this budget is the same as the previous budget? It is worth tearing it up and returning it to the Minister, not because it is not right, but because there is a request for a new morality, for a new budgeting, for a new path on which we will go, for transparency of expenditure. I'm not saying they won't be transparent. By adopting the decree of the Council of Ministers, we will see them all, but the principle is for the National Assembly to approve these costs. How could this happen, and why hasn't it happened here? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 2 points 2 and 3 say how the expenditure of chief authorising officers is structured by means of budgetary means, i.e. 2 are given for each authorising officer on the main indicators or items, as the budgeters call them, etc. 3 are given by policies, or this is the so-called programming format. Here they are given under policies, but they are not given in the budgets of the senior officers. If they were given there, they wouldn't be on reserve and there wouldn't be a need to spend with a decree of the Council of Ministers, but they would be spent as we sign them here. I appeal to you to do between first and second readings. It is possible that the minister as new in this field has been misled. We do not necessarily have to doubt that this is some deliberate budgetary tactic in order to be able to restructure some costs, and there are objective arguments - not all costs can be accurately foreseen, there must be an option for restructuring. I'll give you an example. For example, the Ministry of Internal Affairs.45 million, this could have gone to art. 12, where the costs of the Ministry of Interior are; the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy 14. Why should it be given in such a format? So, if you don't mind, let's not repeat models that we swear here from morning to night that we're gonna go scooter. Let's do the budgeting as possible and is given in the Public Finance Act. We will, of course, offer this to happen. From another point of view, we must at all costs try to expand the scope of the measures, because there is such a possibility. I think that revenues are realistically foreseen in implementation, I think that there are reserves and, by the way, one of the things that requires an update and one of the things that we have an option to increase revenue is the vicious model on which GERB has constructed the budgets in the last 7 years after the adoption of the Public Finance Act in this form since 2012. There are hidden buffers, first, in the revenue section, being underestimated by revenue. The proof is this budget, I can give you evidence in the previous one, but now we have proof in front of us. Who could not predict that revenues would be first due to the revival in the economy and inflation? It has been predictable since the pandemic crisis. Several trillion dollars were printed in dollars and in euros that they could not help raise inflation. Why are we now saying that we can safely predict a billion and two hundred more, and we couldn't say it last year? That's why the SUV. The other buffer is in cost. More capital expenditure is always foreseen with the clear awareness that they will not be implemented.. at least the co-financing of the projects from European funds will not be met and hence some capital expenditure will remain, and hence they will start restructuring with a decree of the Council of Ministers. This is the vicious model we are talking about, and you are now continuing this model, and you are talking about some new developments in politics. If that's the latest, frankly, I'd advise you not to make a party. [[Exhilaration and laughter by ISN, IBGNI. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] That was a prank. We have to have more sense of humor in the morning to make the day easier. [[Radio and applause.]] We are not worried that anyone else will come to the political field. Christo's worried there... [[Radio, lines and applause.]] Dear colleagues and honourable Minister, we will respect your efforts to secure the means to meet the crisis in the context of a pandemic, in the context of a lack of parliament, but we will change this form, we will try to at least propose. Our representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in the committees, voted for the Commission to give a clear sign that we want to launch the procedure. Here, however, in this House, we will give another sign - we will vote abstention - to make it clear that we do not like this format and we will make our proposals between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u5	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to wait a moment to see if there are any lines, and then I'll give you the floor right away. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u6	Mr. Tsonev, thank you for your comments on the budget. Jokes and pranks, maybe out of this room. [[Noise and lines.]] As far as excise revenue is concerned, we have found significant delays in excise revenue over 3%, mainly cigarettes and fuels. The budget is set to make up for this lag. At the time of the budget, it seemed that we would be able to catch up with him within the year. I am happy to say that especially the excise duties from fuels in July and August are moving much better than we expected, so, yes, some additional income from excise duties can be foreseen. We can give you information about what's been going on in the last month. Revenues from excise month over month jumped by more than 20%, and you know that this cannot be due to inflation, as these are revenue based on volumes. Why are the expenses put in reserve? They are placed in reserve, but they are placed on separate feathers, which means that the Council of Ministers, however much it wants, must actually spend them on the purposes for which these costs are set. Some of these costs, such as the measures for the business, have always walked through a decree of the Council of Ministers, because there you have to say exactly what scheme they will be spending on. For the moment we have the 60/40 scheme, but both employers and trade unions want some changes in it, and other business support schemes are still being developed. So the most appropriate is the decree that tells exactly how to spend, what is the scheme, it also determines the amount that will be spent. That's why this 430 million income is at stake this way. The other reason to bet on the reserve is to not form a revenue base in the ministries, so next year everyone will say: uh, but I had a lot more money last year, give me more money next year. I mean, there's... [[Heckling]] This happens every year, you know that very well. So this is one reason that allows next year to make a realistic budget, without these one-off revenues, which are for fighting the crown crisis, to enter as a basis in the budget of the ministries and become permanent, which would in fact be very worrying for some of the revenue. To extend the scope of the measures, what we propose is the most conservative business and trade unions would accept and which would help the country to go through the crisis. The idea here was together with the trade unions, together with employers' organizations to discuss the scope of the measures, to discuss exactly what to be and this is actually set in the budget. That's what Tristrakka thinks. If you think there should be additional measures, of course, you have the right to bet them, and as I said yesterday: The National Assembly decides what will be in the law. My only request to you will be: discuss it with the trade unions and with the business, so that we do not then go into conflict in the implementation of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u7	Thank you. Now under the Rules of Procedure, when there is a discussion, there is no explicit procedure for the importer. At the same time, we accepted an addition, you know, when the minister spoke or a member of the Council of Ministers, to have the parliamentary groups within two minutes to express their attitude. So, Mr. Tsonev, on that basis, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u8	Thank you, Madam President. By the way, we need to foresee this practice in the next parliament after a speech by a minister, if it concerns a speech by a member of parliament, he should be able to speak because the primate is still the National Assembly and not the ministers. Coming out of the minister to speak and then not being able to answer him is not very serious and it is not very parliamentary. But thank you for giving me the opportunity. None of what I have said has been disproven, but what you have said is even more necessary to make things more transparent because of the fact that the base is going to be raised, it doesn't matter. The ministers always ask a lot, the minister always gives little, and the National Assembly finally in the role of arbitrator. That's no problem at all, that's first. Secondly, with regard to excise duties. Abandonment has been caught up since the half-year. In the half-year, the plan was better implemented than last year's plan. We're not going to look at the causes of lag, it's temporal, so it moves the first half of the year if you look back years. But as long as we're catching up, there's no reason why we shouldn't predict, since we're predicting an increase in all the other costs, there's no way the excise duties can leave them that way. You know what I mean?! If you're fighting for an image, know that you're giving us an edge from now on, let's just talk about customs. Be practical! We will help you by raising costs. So all the things I did as notes, you actually confirmed them, and I thank you for that. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Bikov, you too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u10	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I will start with the political part of this procedure that we are looking at today. This is one of the most important political procedures in the work of a National Assembly. It ranks after the election of a government and after the vote of confidence or distrust comes the procedure for adopting a budget. In the rules of democracy, it is accepted that if a budget is rejected...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u11	Mr. Bikov, I'm sorry, you wanted to be concerned about the previous procedure with the Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u12	No, no, I...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u13	There were others before you for a statement, but go on. You should have made it very clear. I asked you, are you in the same procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u14	Sorry, we didn't agree. The rules of democracy provide, they are unwritten rules, but they are usually respected if a budget is rejected, then the government resigns. This is seen as a vote of confidence or distrust of the government and its ability to promote any policies. After yesterday's speech by Mr. Asen Vassilev, who said that the responsibility is in parliament only in parliament, the government is some kind of executive that performs, I will state that this is not the case. Firstly, responsibility is always in the parliamentary majority and a number of questions are already coming here. What is the parliamentary majority in the Forty-Sixth National Assembly? In the forty-sixth National Assembly, the majority is the opposition, as strange as it may seem. Colleagues from "There is such a people" are opposition, we are probably opposition, if you ask each party one by one, it will turn out that we are all in opposition. How do we broadcast a parliamentary majority to adopt a budget? How do we do that? Of course, there is no vacuum in politics and what will happen next week between first and second readings. Due to the lack of a parliamentary majority to be responsible, no one will be responsible! And you said here yesterday on behalf of the government that you wouldn't be held responsible. And to accept the budget, and not to accept the budget, and to make proposals, and not to make proposals, the responsibility is in the forty-sixth National Assembly, notice, which will not exist in about two weeks. Who will be responsible for what will happen between first and second readings at a time of election campaign? Let's face it: we're all in an election campaign! Between the first and second readings, there are already requests that there will be a series of proposals that risk taking the first step towards the financial crisis in which the country may fall because you will not have control of this process. You may have good intentions, you may have some technical problems that you want to solve through a budget update, but you will have no control in the process between first and second reading, when here all the parliamentary groups will fall into a situation of election campaigning, will start offering all sorts of things, and eventually all these things may be adopted and then the update of the budget that will be adopted will have nothing to do with the update that you have proposed. On top of that, no one is responsible for this?! The bill will be paid by all Bulgarians, especially those who work because they give the money for the expenses you have provided and in an update which we have also provided in the budget for 2021. Unfortunately, this whole procedure is wrong because it is wrong at all to take the various actions and acts in this Parliament. Under the rules of democracy, a government is first elected. First a government is elected to make it clear which is the parliamentary majority! The forty-sixth National Assembly, as well as the forty-fiveth National Assembly, have failed parliaments because they cannot broadcast a government. A parliament that cannot broadcast a government is failed. He's stillborn. This Parliament must now adopt a budget, provided that it is unable to do its main task, and we want it to do some further tasks. The update of the budget, although it is for three months, has consequences, and it will certainly also have consequences on the 2022 budget, which is currently not clear when it will be adopted due to the political crisis that we are in, but it will have a reflection. If we accept some proposals here between first and second readings, which may or may not be able to imagine what they are right now, it will turn out that we have committed the next government to what it is, for years to come or subsequent governments in the coming years, and in a very difficult situation of a health crisis, of economic challenges, we can enter into a spiral that will finally end with a financial collapse. This winter, which is coming, will be very difficult, but my forecast is that next winter will be even worse. It will be even heavier, because then we will begin to harvest the fruit of inflation. We must therefore think a little and in perspective, not only about how to get to the presidential elections, which will probably also be combined with parliamentary elections. And what do we tell our constituents more beautifully and more wonderfully so that we can win their votes? No, we'll be honest and say the obvious. The country is in a very difficult situation, in an extremely difficult situation. In this situation Bulgaria cannot afford both the Bulgarian political elite in parliament and the government cannot afford irresponsibility. Irresponsibility! It cannot be said here: we will not be responsible, we will do what you say. What if we set you up with unfulfilled tasks next week, how will you perform them?! There should have been talks between the different parliamentary groups before the adoption of this budget, to understand where we are in this update. Can an update make deep strategic reforms? You can't. It may, but the price will be very high and, I repeat, it will not be paid either by the caretaker government that has been appointed and will be gone as soon as there is a regular government, nor will it be paid by the 46th National Assembly, which will be dissolved in two weeks. That's the bigger question. Finally, we will not support and vote against the budget update because, firstly, we do not trust the caretaker government that proposes this update, and this is also part of the rules of democracy, and secondly, we will not support because we do not participate in the ruling majority. There is no way to support the budget from an opposition position. For us, both the update and the budget itself are not technical issues, but political issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u15	Your time, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u16	We will therefore vote not abstention, we will vote against. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u18	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Bikov, I'd like to remind you of a few things. Firstly, we are not a prime minister's republic, we are a parliamentary republic, so Parliament decides what happens to the budget. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]] Secondly, we are talking and discussing budget issues all, including your representatives in the Committee on Budget and Finance and other committees, so you are not isolated. And, thirdly, Mr. Bikov, I think that you are doing election campaigning, you are making sure that Parliament cannot work quickly and effectively. Who's responsible? We are all responsible for the decisions we will make with the update of the budget. So you can either support or not support, abstain, but you and I in the Committee on Budget and Finance are having a conversation, and that is meaningful. I think you're wrong. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u19	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u20	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr. Bikov! The line is an expression of dissent, I will start with an agreement. You are not part of the ruling majority and this is a good first step. Now it must be made so that it is stable. In terms of responsibility. No one is holding you back, dear Mr. Bikov and honourable ladies and gentlemen of GERB and the DPS, so that those who will not support the budget can be met with responsibility so that the crises you have described can indeed be met. No one prevents the MPs from being responsible in their second reading proposals to really improve the budget and not to bid. This is a matter of parliament, of parliamentary groups and of each of us. The caretaker government has done its job by updating the budget, because the procedure that you do not accept is described in the Constitution and we would not have had the opportunity to lead this debate if the caretaker government had not introduced a budget because we have no right to this legislative initiative. Even in the past, the National Assembly of BSP has insisted on such an update because let's be right, Mr. Bikov, we do not forget the political part of the budget is a mark of a policy, and the budget that we are now changing is the last footprint of the policy led by GERB. I point out the last one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Third line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u22	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zaykova! The decisions are made in parliament, but in terms of the Constitutional budget, Parliament has no right to propose a budget, so it is offered by someone and is made by someone. And in the normal situation, the one who makes and offers it, he also bears some responsibility for it. You can't leave this trial unaccounted for. The reason why there is no parliamentary majority here, Mrs. Zaykova, is mainly in your party because it is the first political force. Its responsibility around it is to form a ruling majority, not to give up your candidate for Prime Minister for personal reasons for the first time in the 130-year history of Bulgaria, and at a very difficult time when responsibility should be held. You refused to take responsibility. That is why Parliament is working in this absurd way, because we are looking at all sorts of ideas that have nothing to do with reality and reality. Mr. Zarkov, we have developed this budget for 2021 with full awareness that it will have to be completed probably by another government. That is why we have placed expenses in it, in its first part, for which we are responsible. Then, of course, we would be constructive. But the slogans about how this was the last step, the first step, leave them for your party meetings and the election campaign. Here I say that the risk to do, I will repeat it once again, to take the first step towards a financial crisis is very great, and to drive another winter, to name it after some prime minister who, ironically, almost always turns out to be BSP. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. To speak, Albena Simeonova. [[National Representative Maya Manolova wants the floor.]] You're signed up, Mrs. Manolova, but there's been another recording since yesterday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u24	Thank you. Dear Minister, honourable President, honourable Members of the House! I, since I am a farmer chosen by Dobrudja, will talk about the sector........................................................................................ The state of the sector is now rather worrying. As I followed the discussions during the Dobrich Fair online, I saw the disturbing comments of colleagues dealing with the sector. In fact, agriculture is also a business and this is about helping people who do business in the field of agriculture. The proposed update of the agricultural budget was sent to you on time by the Ministry of Agriculture, but, unfortunately, it is not covered by the general update of the budget. I suppose this has happened perhaps because of the misunderstanding that it is only about compensation for livestock, and it is about feeding animals. No, these funds are necessary because primary production producers, I speak both of fruit and of vegetables, of course, refer also to the business sector, which also suffered from a horse, especially small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. Closed restaurants, markets, fruit and vegetables producers, flowers, despite the fact that in any way the state is trying to restore the previous state, in no way could these people be compensated for the closed external markets, the lack of exports of this type of production. So one feather of the requested funds is really to compensate those people who suffered from the pandemic of COVID-19. However, farmers also suffer from continuous drought, from heavy rains, from hails, so the second feather you are offered is to compensate for this part. If these farmers, if we do not get adequate support from the state budget, if the budget is not updated, believe me, this sector is really doomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Valchev for speaking. [[Relations from the National Representative Krasimir Valchev.]] You said yesterday. Krasimir Valchev, you made a statement yesterday. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u26	Do we have time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u27	Yeah, well, you don't, I'm sorry. Mrs. Manolova, you have two minutes and 53 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u28	Can we extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u29	It's prolonged and exhausted, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u30	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up, BG! He will support the update proposed by the office because we believe that the money collected by the Bulgarian citizens should be returned to the Bulgarian citizens. We're talking about $2 billion. BGN, which according to the estimates will be collected in more by the end of this year. We believe it is also thanks to a rise in some sectors, and to inflation, but also to the good work of the revenue administration, for which we congratulate you. However, we believe that the ambitious task with some of this money to reduce the budget deficit to 3.6% does not match the expectations of Bulgarian citizens and the situation in the country. Now is the time for the National Assembly to stand next to every Bulgarian citizen, every pensioner, every small company, every farmer, every medic on the front line, and to support them. People are worried about the coming four crises and therefore the behaviour of the parliamentary group of GERB, for example, seems like a simple sabotage, as a boycott for normalizing people's lives, to be supported in a crisis after the chaos and draining of public money, which we have seen for the past 11 years. We from the parliamentary group stand up, BG! However, we are going to insist that the sectors that are most hit by the crisis are also supported and for which there is not enough money available. This is the industry "Tourism." The whole industry, the transport, which is related to it, are also farmers. It is vital for vegetable producers, fruit producers, potatoes, farmers to receive this 70 million. BGN, which they requested in the update procedure and which are imposed because of the increase in feed prices, because of 30% higher fuels, and their production of both vegetable producers and potato producers and livestock farmers, is frozen as prices, even falling. They have a vital need for support to continue their businesses. So we will insist and show how this will happen with revenue in the budget to get 70 million. lv. support. We will also insist on the support of border police, the people we expect to push back migrant pressure, for equipment, for missionary and also for those who are struggling with the elements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u31	Your time, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u32	For firefighters and for forest workers, for the people of......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u33	Your time, Mrs. Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u34	They fight the fires that burned thousands of acres of forest. They need support from the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament and I suggest we give it to them between the two readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. For other speeches? Here you go, Georgi Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in our proposed version of an updated budget there are planned funds for capital expenditure on the budget and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On Wednesday, however, which happened after the proposal of the Budget Project, at a meeting of the Committee on Revision, which, Mr Minister, thank you for attending, was also attended by Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the new management of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the new management of the state company. There were presented some facts that are directly related to the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I think it's appropriate to introduce the MPs as well as the public to these facts. We have been given some methodological instructions by the Public Procurement Agency, which clearly say that contracts concluded under the Public Procurement Act with a type of In House procedure, where it has been found that the contractor has no capacity to perform, must be terminated within one month. This means that contracts worth about 3.4 billion. BGN, in so far as I have a memory, contracts for capital expenditures, which have been awarded in this way and which are already very clear that the state company or state construction company (s) has no capacity to fulfil, according to these instructions, should be terminated. The second thing, which is a fact, and what we have to say, is that it has been confirmed that construction works have actually been carried out by means of veiled contracts for the supply of materials or veiled lease contracts for mechanization, i.e. construction works have been carried out. What happened? In fact, we have to say this: there are built sections of highways that are not a highway on documents. We don't have quality, we don't have readings, and we don't have acceptance of construction. We have created a very difficult situation within a few billion leva. In this regard, we believe that it is correct for the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, within this short period of time between the two readings to analyse how many of these contracts are legal, how much work has been done legally and how much has to be paid, because business representatives have absolutely no fault at all for having concluded these contracts. The construction business has done its job. Of course, it is very clear here that there are also some companies that are, to say the least, privileged to be chosen in this way to build, but we believe that those who have done their work quality and respectfully must be paid. So we call on you, if possible, even though I am aware that it is hard work, to do this thing in order to be able to seek a way for the construction business to be paid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u38	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! There is such a people that we will support the budget update at first reading simply because we need to do so, because the budget needs to be updated, in which there is nothing wrong. The problem of this budget is that it was made, unfortunately, on the terms of GERB, by giving the government the opportunity to spend uncontrollably huge funds or to redirect them to sectors where there is no wonder to have friendly companies. This thing, thank God, can be fixed by the parliament between the two readings in the Budget Committee. So the experts from "There is such a people" will work right in this direction so that the cabinet, whoever it is, can spend people's money any way it wants, claiming that it is fighting the crown crisis, and benefiting some people. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u40	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! As several colleagues from our parliamentary group of "Democratic Bulgaria" have already said, we will support the budget update at first reading, as we supported the changes in the budget for the National Health Insurance Fund and the National Health Insurance Fund. Why are we doing this? It is obvious that Budget 2021 also needs an update due to the problems with the pandemic crisis and because of the need to deal with the new wave of COVID-19, which is already becoming stronger and with the possible problems due to a possible refugee crisis in Bulgaria. We now see that there is a need to strengthen our borders, create a good organization to prevent our society from being shaken by such a crisis. At the same time, the problems of the people of socially vulnerable groups, who are currently about 40% of the residents of Bulgaria, are experiencing exceptional problems and they are at the level of the existenz-mime for survival, for the possibility to continue a normal existence. The same applies to the socially vulnerable groups of the problems of young families, the need for funds for health care, for education, for all spheres. Why did it come to this? Many times we have spoken and a lot of colleagues said. "In fact in Bulgaria there is no problem with lack of funds, there is money in Bulgaria. The problem is that they are spent in an absolutely ineffective, inefficient and in many cases criminal way. I can't help but say that, as a person who still has considerable experience and has been seriously involved in construction, that you assign 8.7 billion in house, provided that in public procurements made fair, average prices fall between 20 and 25%, i.e. in fair, transparent and legal procedures for carrying out certain works, services or any activity, the probability that these 9 billion will fall to about 7 billion is too high. That is, when we talk about a lack of money, if these public procurements were legally made, it is likely that 2 billion would remain. These 2 billion could go for both pensioners and health care and education and other areas that are suffering chronic shortages. So the big problem from now on I would like to thank both Minister Vassilev and Minister Petkov and other ministers who began to very carefully control the details of the spending of Bulgarian money. Turns out there are a lot of leaks, it turns out that in many cases the control system does not work or work purposely with the idea of hitting a political opponent or some mayor who is not one of ours. In fact, as a former mayor, I can't help but say that in Bulgaria, if we have to give a good signal to society that something is being done, the first suspects are the mayors. Surprisingly, when billions are spent on high levels of power, without being clear whether they are legal or on the brink of law. So the main thing, and what Minister Vassilev did, Minister Petkov and the other colleagues, is that the control mechanisms began to function, that we started to look into the details and try to spend the money effectively and by law. Now a few words about the Bulgarian municipalities. It is obvious that the Bulgarian municipalities have a chronic shortage of funds......................................... which vary in hundreds of millions. He had problems with his own income last year, especially. This year, these problems have been addressed to some extent, but they still exist. There are accumulated deficits and it seems to me that it would be good, although we will support at first reading this draft budget update bill for 2021, to make adjustments to the Bulgarian municipalities. We are prepared to submit a proposal, quite meaningfully, without wanting to disbalance the budget at all costs. On the contrary, we just want to give the Bulgarian municipalities, who are also on the first line in dealing with the crown crisis, a chance to be more effective. They do not have the means to cope with this extremely difficult task. Mrs. Simeonova has just motivated the proposal for agriculture, there will probably be others. People involved in the cultural sector.. whether on a state budget, on a municipal budget, or self-employed, are experiencing huge problems related to the very serious lag of the salaries of the people in this area. In fact, investment in man is the most important investment in his health, in his education and in his culture. If we don't have an educated, cultural and healthy society, we probably have almost nothing, because we can build all the highways and all the infrastructure projects, after all there must be people who can realize their potential within this territory. In the end, I hope that those who will continue and prepare the budget for 2022 must make serious decisions for bold investments in Northwestern Bulgaria, in Northern Bulgaria, for serious consideration of the problem of the highway "Hemus" with the speed routes from Botevgrad to Vidin and Veliko Tarnovo to Ruse, with the tunnel under Shipka and Petrohan, because at the moment in Northern Bulgaria a quarter of the country's gross domestic product is being created. 40% is created in Sofia, as we discussed with Mr. Minister in the Commission. However, the question is: how do we ensure that the bold regional policy reduces sharply the disproportions between the Bulgarian regions? Not to fight the consequences of a huge part of the Bulgarian population moving to Sofia, but to make sure that people can stay where they were born, where they want to live, where their root is. We need to think very seriously about this. In the final, I will say that this goes through financial decentralisation, which we are talking about for almost a quarter of a century, so that some of the money remains where it is created, as is the modern approach in the countries that we aim for strong cities, strong regions, deconcentration of power and financial decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Abrovsky, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I don't know if you are aware of what situation Bulgarian agriculture is currently in? For twelve years the management of GERB Bulgarian agriculture was made dependent on subsidies and not on the market. During the last few months during the elections, the political party GERB spent all the money that was planned for Bulgarian agriculture. For the first time in history, since we are members of the European Union, the de minimis resource has been spent. Before the last election, absolutely irresponsible was spent everything that could be given. Now I don't know if you realize what signal you are giving to Bulgarian agriculture with the budget you have proposed, with the fact that you refuse to update and predict some 70 million, which are extremely vital. Yesterday from this tribune, you said: between first and second reading, if possible, to update the budget for defence and internal affairs. Yes, this is important, but at the same time you remain silent about agriculture. Against this background, your colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, says he will ask the State Reserve to give grain soon before autumn. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. For lines? I can't see. Mr. Shalamanov, you made a statement, but you only have sixteen seconds. [[Heckling]] I think you'd better save it for lines. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u44	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This update of the budget was announced with the need to address two possible crises, one related to the Kovid disease that is expanding at the moment and the possible migrant crisis. Yesterday you said that the budget of the Ministry of Interior should be updated. This is the topic we've been chewing on here for a long time and not since yesterday. The caps in this budget, which has been updated, are laid down as early as the adoption of budget 2021. They have been discussed for very long and very wide. I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that the funds invested in this budget update of up to 45 million per employee are not what the Ministry of Interior needs in general! Yes, the Ministry of Interior needs these funds for staff, but you may know that there is a bottomless pit that needs to be reformed. Obviously, this Parliament will not find the time needed to reform the sector. Maybe you should take a look at it. We will make between first and second reading our proposals, which result from really objective factors, from things we have observed over the years relating to capital expenditure related precisely to the reception of a possible migrant wave. This partition facility, which was built in the most outrageous way and with frank thefts, I have said it from this tribune, should be maintained, and we do not see funds for it in this budget. We do not see any means of clothing for the employees of the Ministry of Interior, because in the autumn-winter season, when they should possibly be at the border, I sincerely hope that this wave does not come here to us, and GERB's previous cabinet has taken away the means of clothing from the Ministry of Interior and have been transferred to other directions. [[GERB lines.]] You know that very well. Mrs. Atanasova, if it's funny to you, you can sign up as a volunteer at the border. So, honourable Members, I hope you will all understand the need for a more detailed and broader update of the budget of the Ministry of Interior in the coming days between first and second readings. We have clearly stated that between first and second reading we will support it, of course, but current needs I think are far greater than what is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For lines? I can't see. For other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u46	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A lot of specialists and budgeters spoke here, and everyone pulls the rug to their portfolio. The most important thing we have to do now is to take care of the people who are standing and thrilled in front of the TVs - 944 500 people who will not only not receive an increase in their pensions, but will lose 12 levs after the recalculation. [[(Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova:]] So the pensions for which you were opposed must be on the poverty threshold plus the supplement. [[(Replication by MP Desislava Atanasova: 100 BGN) We're gonna give it to you.]] Plus the addition of even 100 leva. Plus the supplement! You said that maybe next year the poverty threshold will become BGN 450. Let it work! We'll update them again after all. More important are these 944 500 people who are currently wondering whether they will lose those 12 levs, which are vital to them, or will take them after all, which they expect. Last but not least, we must not oppose social spending with economics, and that is why we at "There is such a people" support the increase of the 1.8 billion part of the expenditure to be used to provide social payments, to update pensions and to fully secure the health system in the event of a possible crisis. The crisis will not only be a single crisis, there will be three, four, even a refugee, political, economic crisis because of the high prices of energy and resources and a kind of crisis. We must not allow the balance between social payments and aid to the economy to be distorted, which has been a practice in previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. Popov. For lines? I can't see. For other speeches. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would still like to congratulate you on the courage to submit this budget update, because I believe it concerns, above all, the people outside this House. I'm sure the responsible MPs understand it well enough. However, I would like to say that in the update of the budget that you have proposed, there are actually funds provided to help the Bulgarian business, but as I have had the opportunity to tell you in the Commission, it is worrying to me that the specific measures to reach the Bulgarian business have not been described. I understand that this gives a greater freedom of action to the government in a particular situation, but still the main criticism that we at BSP have always had with regard to the measures that apply to the Bulgarian business is their timeliness and their predictability. When a business closes and he doesn't know what he'll get, what kind of support he can count on, that's a problem for him. Therefore, I would suggest that you accept between first and second reading concrete proposals, sign the measures that will help the business if 75/0 for closed businesses, or 60/40 with specific funds, with specific sizes to enter into force and into effect in a specific situation, I am sure that this will give a calmness, a predictability and a security to Bulgarian entrepreneurs. However, BSP will support this update at first reading. Of course, we reserve the right to propose these additions to your proposal between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. For lines? I can't see. Statements? I don't see any other speeches. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] The Minister wants the floor, and I can't help but give it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to thank you for this debate and for the constructive proposals. There were proposals here to specify the measures we would love to do. Perhaps with employers and trade unions we should sit down within this week and see if this can be done. There have also been many calls to help agriculture. There very specifically to see what needs to be done. We are open to this discussion and will assist it expertly as far as this can happen within this week, and we would love to work in this direction. The same thing applies to culture, as there are some initial measures proposed there, but they do not seem quite adequate at first glance to the situation and need to work more seriously to become adequate. With regard to the issue of pensions, what kind of update is to be made, it is regulated by the budget of the DEA. What I can tell you is that as the Ministry of Finance we have been led by providing sufficient resources to remove all Bulgarian pensioners from poverty. At the moment, as I said before, thanks to the good work of the NRA and the Customs Agency, thanks to the better economic environment thanks to the well done work done by the Bulgarian companies and by the Bulgarian workers that they have been correct to the budget, we have the resources to do this. Not only do we have the resources to do it this year, but it will in no way jeopardize the country's future budgets. That is why I would like to call on you to vote for the update. We take the responsibility between first and second readings to actively work with MPs who are willing to adjust so that these adjustments are adequately valued and if Parliament decides to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're closing the debate. We move on to a voting regime at first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46 102 01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. They voted 195 MPs: 135 against 45, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Mr. Valchev, you couldn't speak. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this House remembers the adoption of many annual budgets and update.. Mr. Ananiev must have participated in the last 24 years in the discussion and preparation of more than 30 such ones, and Mr. Tsonev in the adoption of 30 annual laws and updates, but this is different. It is different not only because it is offered not so much and only by a caretaker government, but because it is approved by a parliament that does not have a ruling majority. Here is the issue of the deficit of responsibility, which Mr. Bikov stressed, and I will partly agree with Mrs. Zaykova. Yes, the National Assembly is the body that approves the budget, but the Constitution regulates a committed responsibility because, if we are all responsible, and we are all responsible, some are responsible for pensions, others like Mr. Zelenogorski are responsible for municipalities, third as Mrs. Kapon to culture, I will make those for education. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u53	Quiet, please! Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u54	The question is: who is responsible for the stabilization function in the country, who is responsible for the stabilisation function of the budget? In charge of the Minister of Finance and for him this is not only a priority task, it is a mission he must be a firm, he must convince the government, the prime minister, the ruling majority, but there is no way to happen in a National Assembly, which is in an election situation in which everyone is interested to show his voters how responsible he is to them, the principle of this service government is also in a pre-election situation. All this is a prerequisite for collective irresponsibility. It will be seen in a week.. hopefully we are wrong, again I say all the proposals will be very well justified and all the proposals will be wonderful, responsible, but with this budget you risk the budget stability of the gambling table, open the box of Pandora. The other thing you're doing is that with a significant size...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u55	Your time is up, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u56	...unnecessary spending commitments oblige the next regular government. In principle, long-term policies are made by a government with a political platform, a management programme that binds all priorities into one. There's no money for farming, I heard, but there's no money for education.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u57	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u58	Mr. Valchev, your time is up. Thank you. For a second negative vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u59	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! I voted against it for several reasons. Perhaps the one that concerns me the most is the attitude and the number of which we have seen in the transfers to municipalities. Several times the topic has been commented by colleagues, but I would like to draw attention to your disrespect towards the Association of Bulgarian Municipalities, because there is no contact with them for their opinion. You have seen in the Ministry a good budget implementation this year of municipal revenues, but in fact for municipalities you are looking at some overcrowded indicators, you do not see each municipality separately. Municipalities are on line one and they constantly continue to take and take measures that have anti-covid focus, including the Municipality of Plovdiv on Monday there is a session of the Municipal Council, which will give up 50% of certain fees, investments in a kind of compartment. So what you're looking at as overcrowded indicators, that the revenue of municipalities is currently good in some of the paragraphs, that doesn't mean that municipalities are generally good. They need support. Madam President, if you had resolated this important law in the Committee on Regional Development, you probably wouldn't have had so many colleagues from all parliamentary groups commenting on this zero that stands in your update. I seriously doubt that this is because of the fact that a large part of the mayors are from GERB, I seriously doubt that what you are giving yourself the opportunity with PMS to direct funds from somewhere, then there will be support for certain municipalities or not, you should have made a dialogue and you should have made a meeting with the Board of the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria at least in order to obtain one information that is quite different from the one they will give you from the Ministry, which they gave you from the Ministry, which you have in your possession. So between first and second reading I advise you to make such meetings. We from GERB will also hold meetings with the Association of Municipalities, we will do with our colleagues here is also the chairman of our committee, and I hope in the Commission that we can discuss this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u60	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u61	...to come up with something in common.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u62	Your time, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u63	That disregard you're showing...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u64	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u65	...to the Bulgarian municipalities, does not speak well of the government, although it is official.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u66	C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u67	With this proposal with these long-term commitments that you want to make, you seem to want to be a permanent government, but it has a certain order in which...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u68	Thank you, Mr. Totev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u70	And for a third negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I voted against for several reasons, three are the main reasons, the first being that there is no money in this budget to deal with the migrant crisis, although such should have been provided by the importer. Firstly, because as early as mid-July, it was clear that the crisis was coming before us and all the centers were almost incomplete. That was when the budget was already being drawn up. On 28 July 2021, the Deputy Prime Minister of Government Mr. Rashkov confirmed that the crisis is ahead of us. This happened before the adoption of the budget by the Council of Ministers, of course, but rather you did not care, or you expected a regular government to come to rob the hot potato. Only after it became clear that there would be no government with the first term, the caretaker government decided to use the money to deal with the migrant crisis as a baseball bat to parliament and to blackmail: Now that's irresponsible behavior from a government. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Secondly, now we all expect you to give some money, offer money to guard the border between the two readings. And in the meantime, as far as we can tell, the operation itself starts from September 1st. So how is it going to start from September 1st when the budget hasn't been adopted? Secondly, you have also done nothing to provide support from the European Commission for border guards. Thus, the entire burden of guarding the border will fall on the shoulders of the Bulgarian taxpayers. For comparison in 2016 in the previous crisis, Prime Minister Borisov in Bratislava provided 320 million. lv. European solidarity, which helped and shared the burden on the crisis. But, unfortunately, this isn't happening right now, possibly since January 1st and possibly if anyone ever manages to negotiate any money, but, unfortunately, you don't have the authority to deal with it. I'll make a suggestion if you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u72	Your time, Mr. Gadget!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u73	...to help you. I'm done. The person who can do your job to call the former Prime Minister Borisov to use his personal contacts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u75	Not to you, but to Bulgaria. [[Laughter]] And the last sentence I would just like to say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u76	Mr. Gadget!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u77	Last sentence. With the budget planned, it's strange why the defense money wasn't provided...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u78	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u79	...that you have plucked...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u80	Mr. Gadget!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u81	Time! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u82	...with PMS number 157.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u84	Thank you, Madam President. The standard deadline for changes between first and second readings is seven days, which is 3 September 2021. Since 6 September is a holiday, let all colleagues work in depth until 7 September for the changes so that we can submit them in time and not until 3 September 2021, Friday. So I'm making this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u85	Is the deadline for proposals until September 7th included?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u87	Okay. Please vote on the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes until 7 September 2021 inclusive. They voted 145 MPs: 122, against 22 and with Mrs. Atanasova's vote 23, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this and this point is exhausted. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u88	Yes, Madam President, in the manner of conduct. As President of the National Assembly, you are called to defend the parliamentary form of government. Therefore, I think that you were obliged to react when the normal procedure for adopting an update of a budget in Parliament was qualified as a gambling game, as Pandora's box, as an act of irresponsibility. Also, pay attention to the MPs who have not yet understood that in the rule of law and constitutional state someone's personal relations cannot replace the work of the institutions, and when we talk about responsibility, it is high time to take it, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, that you begin to think and decide for yourself, that is why we are called here! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I will start strictly following what you are telling me, and I will especially start from the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] Thank you. I'm calling a break till 11:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u90	Moving on, fellow Members, with parliamentary control. Written answers to questions and questions received for the period 20 August 2021 from: - Deputy Minister Andrey Zhivkov on questions from the MPs Velizar Shalamanov, Ivaylo Mirchev, Stella Nikolova and Martin Dimitrov, and Temenuzhka Petkova; - Deputy Minister Andrey Kuzmanov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister of Staff Asen Vassilev on a question from the National Representative Kiril Ananiev; - Minister of Staff Assen Lichev on questions from the MPs Borislav Sandov, Zornitsa Stratieva, Ivaylo Mirchev and Kiril Simeonov; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Service Boyko Rashkov on questions from the MPs Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Maria Petrova; Ivaylo Mirchev and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Staff Velislav Minekov on questions from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev and Maria Kapon; - Minister of Staff Violeta Komitova on questions from the MPs Kiril Ananiev, Krum Donchev, Maria Kapon, Martin Dimitrov; on two questions from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev, to a question from the National Representative Hristo Terziyski and Mladen Marinov; - Deputy Minister Georgi Panayotov on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister of Staff Georgi Todorov to ask the MP Ivaylo Mirchev; two questions from the MPs Ivaylo Valchev, Christian Todorova and Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and two questions from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Service Galab Donev on a request from the National Representative Tsetska Bachova and Katya Paneva and a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister of Staff Kiril Petkov on a request from the National Representative Tsetska Bachova and a question from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev; - Minister of Staff Nikolay Denkov on a request from the MP Mukaddes Nalbant, Velizar Shalamanov and Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister of Staff Svetlin Stoev on a question from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev, Mustafa Karadayi and Hamid Hamid; - Deputy Minister Stella Baltova on a question from the National Representative Ivaylo Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister Stefan Yanev on a question of the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Minister Stoycho Katsarov on questions from the MPs Galina Tavalicka, Ivaylo Mirchev and Kiril Simeonov; - Minister of Staff Hristo Bosukov on questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Bürhan A Base; and Zornitsa Stratieva; - Staff Minister Yanaki Stoilov on a question from the MPs Ivaylo Mirchev. We begin with the first question to Stefan Yanev "Office Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria." A question from the MP Mincho Hristov Kuminev on the policy of the Bulgarian government regarding the dangers of a new migrant wave due to the processes developing in Afghanistan. Mr. Hristov, you're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Prime Minister, I will not talk about Bulgaria's participation in the adventure of Afghanistan, in the adventure of Iraq. 15 years ago, I explained to one of your predecessors what was in store for us. My advice is clear! Mr. Prime Minister, it turns out that the United States abandoned their partners and armed the Taliban with the latest weapons. From what I can tell, there's a serious and bloody civil war ahead in Afghanistan. Yesterday they started, unfortunately, the first suicide attacks with dozens of victims. What action does the government of the Republic of Bulgaria take to stop this overhanging refugee wave of Bulgaria? We are talking about several million people who will be heading towards Europe? Do you prepare the police, the military, if necessary volunteer troops to protect our border? Keep in mind that the people who come to Bulgaria are young men between 18 and 35 years old, with combat experience I do not say that they are Islamists, but that is obvious. This is an extremely dangerous contingent. I'm not saying they're all like that, but... I'm not gonna politicize, I'm not gonna talk politics...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u92	Mr. Christov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u93	I'm just finishing up. ...of the European countries that have found their borders, but again I say, what is the Bulgarian government doing to stop this refugee wave?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Yanev. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I will refrain from commenting on the geopolitical situation and what led to the situation in Afghanistan. At the moment, the situation is as it is. What the Bulgarian state, the government and all the involved services are doing is constantly monitoring the situation, evaluating it and preparing the national system for protection of national security, responding adequately to the potential of increasing the migrant wave. As you know, since the beginning of the year and to date there has been some increase in migrant pressure against the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, including before the dramatic events in Afghanistan develop in mid-August. In this sense, from the point of view of the executive, I can tell you the following data and facts. First of all, the protection of the national border, including with regard to additional migratory pressure, is a continuous process that has lasted the last 7 8 years with a different amplitude, a different degree of pressure. The situation is currently being controlled by the Ministry of Interior and its respective structures, with the management of the Directorate General of Border Police and the personnel he is patrolling, which is equipped with the necessary additional means of monitoring and the necessary material resources, including high-pass vehicles, being increased by about 60 people. All existing plans have been reviewed, literally over the past week additional coordination has been carried out, including with representatives of the Ministry of Defence, and the coordination in question is based on the need and readiness to increase the necessary patrols, including with support from the armed forces, whether by land, by air or by sea, if necessary and such type of patrolling. In addition, with my order in the Council of Ministers, with the participation of almost all ministries, with the participation of security services, agencies, including non-governmental organisations of the Red Cross type, a coordination group has been established in order to continuously monitor the situation, assess all factors, both external and internal, so that the analysis on a daily basis is available to the senior government to take immediate measures and react where necessary. You know, in terms of protecting the border, we have two, so to speak, the subject. The border with the Republic of Turkey is of paramount importance, where are the main crossing routes, but at the same time the border with the Hellenic Republic is also not to be underestimated. In this regard, the respective coordinations with the neighbouring countries of Bulgaria along the migration line were made within both borders, on the line of the Ministry of Interior, which is mainly related to border guards. Both at national level and at international level, such an organisation has been made, and I repeat, the existing national plans are being reviewed and, if necessary, updated. We are ready as a government, including planning in the coming days to bring together the Security Council to the Council of Ministers, where we can discuss and adopt specific ideas and proposals that we already have, but when the time comes, we will discuss them and announce them to the public so that it is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Hristov, you have the right to reply for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u97	Prime Minister, Greece has built a wall with Turkey, anyone can see the differences between our wall and theirs. They sent me pictures of our great fence wall, and it turns out that in many places it's just gone, it's fallen out of its own weight. In this sense, my question is: do you do specific checks on the state of this wall, on strengthening it, on building posts with thermal cameras and other possible technical means to limit the migratory flow? Another: if a Bulgarian citizen crosses the border illegally without documents, he will immediately be arrested and tried. If an illegal migrant crosses the border of Bulgaria, it is provided with food, a place to sleep and is released. I think everyone in our country should be equal before the law! I don't know how long our parliament will last. In such a critical situation, leaving the country without parliament is really irresponsible. I sincerely wish Cornelia Ninova the success of forming a government and wish our colleagues to be more responsible here in this Chamber. In this sense, I ask you specifically: is it necessary for you as a government any decision of the Bulgarian Parliament, if not for God's sake, to relax to assist the actions of your or the next caretaker government to stop this migratory flow? Again, it's about colleagues, hundreds, thousands, some analysts say millions...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u98	Mr. Christov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u99	...who will cross the border of Bulgaria? I think we should really be responsible for this. And I say again: what could I and my colleagues of all parliamentary powers do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u100	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I agree with your assessment that a temporary obstruction facility along the border is not in good condition. Indeed, there are sections that need urgent repairs and additional efforts to be in the form in which it is designed and which is supposed to best assist the work of the Border Guard. In this context, yes, checks are being carried out by both the Border Police and the respective regional managers in the districts of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo. We have a very clear picture. I'm going straight to the last line: what can Parliament do to help? First of all, with the necessary additional budget, which estimates have already been made by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. I just received the assurance from Mr. Zafirov that the Defence Committee is ready to support this type of proposal in the process of updating the budget between the two readings. Perhaps the other Internal Affairs Commission will have a similar attitude, so this is one. The other thing that we are considering and are facing a decision is to centralise the activity of the responsibility of the state border entirely on the Ministry of Interior, respectively the Border Police. At the moment there is one thing, let's say, mixing of responsibilities. The district managers have a bearing on the maintenance of the facility, while the border police are guarding, of course, with all kinds of sensors, additional equipment, there are permanent posts, there are mobile posts. This sort of organization is done. But with regard to maintaining the facility of the so-called fence, it is necessary centralisation to be able to use these months before the time is spoiled, to make the necessary repairs, the corresponding cleansing where necessary, because, including the plow, there are already grown trees. So this organization we are doing it and I suppose we will turn very soon to Parliament, including this type of support that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. That concludes the first question. Let's move on to the second question. He is from the National Representative Blagovest Kirilov Kirilov on the conditions for remote work and guaranteeing the rights of workers to Galab Donev. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in recent weeks we have seen a rise in those who have suffered from CoVID-19 in anticipation of the next wave of the pandemic. The Labour Code describes in detail the conditions for remote work, however, the pandemic opened the question whether it was first adequate, sufficient and applicable. Control and implementation, especially of art. 107i, para. 3 of the Labour Code, this is the member who says what conditions the employer should provide to the workers remotely, is often ignored by both employers and the institutions themselves. The Labour Code is also not adapted to digitalization, as very often paper documents are required for simple things, such as holidays and the like. The Ministry of Labour should lead the debate and propose solutions to the problems facing both business and laborers. In this regard, my question is as follows: what measures does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take in relation to the protection of workers' rights remotely; have checks been carried out by the Labour Inspection; is there any data from the employment services about the jobs performed and verified by employees working remotely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u104	Thank you. Here you are, Minister Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the employment policy focuses on ensuring the labour and social rights of employees, including those working at a distance. These persons have the same rights and obligations as they are provided for in labour law for all workers, and they also have certain additional issues, given the specific way of organising their work. The regulation on distance work was adopted in the Labour Code in 2011 by introducing the requirements of the European Framework Agreement for distance work. The legal framework on this issue is the result of a consensus reached and a signed agreement between the social partners at national level. A good basis has been created for ensuring fundamental labour rights and specific mechanisms for protecting workers from distance. A specific provision lays down the employer's obligation to provide, at its own expense, the necessary equipment, as well as supplies for its operation, technical support and others, so as to enable workers to carry out their work without difficulty. Fundamental rights and obligations related to the provision of safe and healthy working conditions with the organisation and reporting of working hours, holidays, holidays, payment of wages, as well as trade unions, qualification, training, etc. are laid down. The latest trends in the labour market caused by the processes of globalisation and digitalisation imposed the use of information technology in the organization of labour in enterprises as an alternative to solving a number of challenges. In this regard, in 2017 the Commission ensured a legal opportunity to create and store documents from the employment file of the employee in electronic form. This ensures better efficiency in the administration of the employment relationship, security in the electronic exchange of documents, better control, optimal cost effectiveness, etc. The unprecedented situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic became a reason for rethinking the organization of business work and speeding up the digitalization and digitization of work processes. Due to the changes in the Labour Code made in 2020, the possibility for the period of emergency or exceptional epidemic situation of employers to unilaterally assign work at a distance shall be regulated. In order to protect the worker, it is explicitly limited to changing the other elements of the contract of employment, such as remuneration, working time, employment and others. In order to ensure the rights of workers, it is established that upon unilateral establishment by the employer at a distance, an order should be issued setting out matters relating to work, technical and other equipment at work, maintenance obligations and costs, other conditions for delivery, replacement and maintenance of the equipment itself. According to data from the labour inspectorate's control activities for the period from the beginning of 2020 to the month of August 2021, only six signals of workers' rights violations have been received from distance workers. However, by carrying out the control of compliance with labour law, by establishing distance work, the control authorities shall carry out checks to comply with the additional conditions for carrying out it. The analysis of the control activity shows that non-compliance with the requirements for the provision of work, technical and other equipment necessary for its operation, regulation of the conditions and procedures for carrying out and taking account of work, including working time, the provision of health and safety at work. For all infringements detected, the relevant enforcement administrative measures have been applied. Finally, I would like to point out that Bulgaria is the country that has one of the most detailed regulations regarding distance work in the European Union. Our legislation in this area is in line with European standards, defends workers' rights in an adequate manner and develops in response to labour challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u106	Thank you, Mr. Donev. Mr. Kirilov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u107	Dear Mr. Donev, as we can see from the data provided by you, it is likely that a change in legislation is needed in order for both employers to really provide the right and necessary working conditions for workers and workers not to fall into the so-called state always on a line that is monitored. So it is strange to hear that there are only six cases identified for almost two years now, given that, first of all, the pandemic forced many of the employers to send their employees to remote work. Most likely, the requirements have not been complied with everywhere, but from another point of view, I would also say, as a supplementary question, do you think there should be additional regulation of compliance with working time so that we avoid, firstly, the so-called regime always on the line with employees and, secondly, do you intend to change the way of checks or their frequency so that they are more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Minister Donev?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the Labour Code gives the employer or its representatives the right to visit the workplace within the framework of the contract of employment or in the collective contract upon mandatory notification of this visit by the employer or the employment services. Indeed, in the framework, as I also said in the statement of the answer to your question, it is regulated and the right to observe working hours by the worker and the employee as well as by the employer. The worker and the employee shall also have the right to notify the Labour Inspectorate, to request, respectively, that the control bodies of labour law carry out a check at their place of work at a distance and to establish whether the provisions of labour law in this area are complied with and applied. Regarding whether a change in our national legislation is necessary. I would draw attention to the fact that there is a continuous debate in the European Union on the need for changes in legislation regarding distance work. On 21 January this year, the European Parliament adopted a resolution proposing that the European Commission regulate the right to break-off from the working environment, while in the resolution the right to break-off from the working environment is defined as: The resolution aims to initiate the launch of the relevant legislative procedure by the European Commission, but is not a legally binding act establishing obligations by Member States to amend national legislation. National Parliaments shall also receive the Commission's resolutions and proposals at the same time as the European Parliament and the Council, respectively, and shall have the opportunity to react to the proposals with the relevant opinions. Although no European legislation has been adopted in this area, the Labour Code regulates the right to rest of the worker or employee even when the work is done at a distance. In establishing further difficulties and violations of the established working regime, the breaks, leave, working time, the necessary actions will be taken by both the control authorities and, where necessary, relevant legislative proposals will be made to change the regulations at both the level of law and the regulations governing the application of this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u110	Thank you, Mr. Donev. We've run out of questions for you. We are moving on to the questions of Boyko Rashkov, Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of the Interior. The question is from the MP Christian Vigenin about the increasing number of illegal migrants entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, fellow MPs! I am aware that in the first question, Prime Minister Yanev gave some of the answers to such a question to a colleague of mine, but still, as far as the Ministry of Interior has a particular responsibility to this problem, I think that the question to you, Mr. Rashkov, will give us more opportunity for us, the MPs, but above all to the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, to have more security in what the Bulgarian government is planning, is doing and is about to do. And the truth is that the situation in Afghanistan made both Bulgarian citizens more sensitive and us MPs on this topic. Even before this unusual, unexpected situation in Afghanistan, the pressure was beginning to grow and here the data we received from the Ministry of Interior shows that in June the detained illegal immigrants were 550 and in July they are nearly three times more. I guess the picture in August, when the data is summarized at the end of the month, will show an even greater increase. In this sense, I would like you to tell us, as a MP from one of the border constituencies of Yambol, what measures is the Ministry of Interior currently taking to address the increasing flow of illegal immigrants, and especially what preventive measures are being taken in relation to the expected strengthening of this pressure? And second, in particular: is the government planning to increase the capacity of the existing refugee centres to the migration department, possibly to the State Agency for Refugees, and are you planning to open new centres accordingly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u112	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u113	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vigenin, you're asking an actual question. This needs to be monitored and monitored more often, because the picture in Afghanistan is changing daily and in a number of cases the processes that are developing there are directly affecting the issue that you are putting in relation to migration pressure. It is known that the movement there takes power. There is still an armed conflict with opponents of the movement, which creates a complex environment throughout the country and generates conditions for the emigration of these Afghan citizens who see danger to themselves and to their families on the territory of their homeland. So, in this sense, we are watching very closely the migration processes, the migratory pressure that is not directed just against our country, of course. It is known that there are thousands of migrants in Iran. The Iranian side may be about 150,000. migrants to cope with the task, but from there on, whatever the information, will not be able to cope, which will automatically mean that other migrants will head in another direction and, of course, towards us, Turkey, Bulgaria and Greece respectively. It is also known that this migration pressure is also assessed by Turkey, where it was started, even a largely completed fence facility and other such, and also by Greece, which reacted in a similar way, starting and building with its border towards Turkey such a partition facility. We have one. I am talking about this subject for a reason because you know that such a fence facility was built a few years ago in our country as a response to the migrant pressure initially a few years ago. For us specifically, compared to the previous year, it is known and we have repeatedly stressed that six times the migratory pressure has risen this year and so far, i.e. by the month of August, there is an increase of 17% compared to the previous July. The most attempts at illegal crossing have been found at the border with Turkey and the Ministry of Interior on this basis, on all this information being analysed, held an extended meeting with representatives and other state authorities, including the Ministry of Defence, including some special services, including intelligence services, so that the entire situation can be discussed and can be monitored more closely, of course, how these migration processes are developing, the movement of the people who left Afghanistan, and for whom I had occasion ten days ago to give some information that they are moving large, large human masses towards us. What's the situation? Here maybe a little more specific to give. We inspected the state of the partition facility with Turkey a few days ago, and we found that in general I will say that in recent years this facility has not been maintained at all. In some places there are cave-ins, there are breakthroughs in this fence facility, it fell into some places. Absolutely no support! Our country, by the way, has entrusted the maintenance of this facility to the district governors of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo. Obviously, for various reasons, one of which is a financial reason, such support has not been implemented at all until now. This will require in a very urgent order to rebuild the fence because it has proved to be a serious obstacle against illegal immigrants who come from Turkey and try to enter Bulgaria. These days, a meeting with the regional governors of Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol in Yambol with representatives of the Ministry of Interior, where this issue has been discussed and at the moment we have requests for funds that are needed to enable each of these areas or every district manager to take on their commitments to the maintenance and reconstruction of the fence facility. At the same time, we also had a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which may seem strange to some, but it turns out that the roads that are in close proximity to the border line with the border are owned by this ministry. And these roads are extremely important for reliable border guards, because of the fact that we will have to ensure that the patrols who are constantly doing their work there are moving quickly. Of course, given the danger, migrant pressure will increase in the coming months, because these are the forecasts, those Afghan citizens who are moving in such a direction towards us are expected to be in close proximity within a month. In this regard, this extended meeting, which I mentioned, of course, was attended by representatives, including the Minister of Defence. They also made a commitment to cooperate with their own forces and equipment, if necessary, in order to respond to the migratory pressure to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u114	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, despite the importance of the subject, but you have repeatedly exceeded the time for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u115	Yeah, sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u116	Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I understand that the subject is quite extensive and obviously within the limits of parliamentary control and those of the few minutes we have, we will not be able to deal fully with it, but, unfortunately, I have not received specific answers to my specific questions, Mr. Minister. In fact, as it became clear that the Security Council is likely to meet next week, it may be worth a hearing with the Prime Minister, or perhaps you and the Foreign Minister next week, where we can comment on these issues in more detail. I have received a partial answer, of course, but I would say, firstly, that it is good, I do not know if you are doing it, but under the ministers of the internal affairs of the European Union, to strengthen coordination and to see if it is not possible for Bulgaria to receive preventive additional support, because sometimes the European Union has the tendency, it seems to me now again, to act with some delay, and better always act preventively. And, secondly, with regard to the capacity of the refugee centres, it is probably worth seeing at a preliminary stage what their readiness is to expand their capacity, to provide staff, translators respectively, and, of course, from the point of view of possible epidemics of COVID-19, and in combination, the two things can prove a very serious challenge for the Bulgarian state, especially for the people who work in these centres, and for those who are placed there. Since various rumors are going on, however, I would like to hear specifically in your duplicate: do you intend to open a centre in Elhovo, where some............................................................................................................................................................. And, secondly, is it even discussed at the Ministry of Interior to return to the idea of GERB since 2016, which was met with mass protests, a referendum, for opening a new one in the former barracks in the village of Boyanovo? In advance, I would like to say that if there were such intentions, these protests would be resumed, and I personally intend to participate in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Minister Rashkov, you have the right to have a double for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I agree that within three minutes there is no answer to such a serious question that is affecting the whole of Europe. Three minutes, that's just not serious to me. Otherwise I have the specific data and will try to provide them to you now in these two minutes, which are again insufficient. In relation to the increasing capacity or the need to increase the capacity of existing centres, or homes for the accommodation of migrants on 23 August this year, 953 persons are accommodated in these temporary accommodation homes at a total capacity of 1260, i.e. we have 75.6% filled. On 16 August this year the renovated Centre for Accommodation of Foreigners in Elhovo is open. Thus the accommodation capacity is increased by another 200 seats. If the migration pressure continues to increase, it is possible to put two more sites into operation in Lyubimets and Elhovo, built in 2020, i.e. at this stage, with a view to migration pressure and existing refugee accommodation. There is no need and no provision is made for the construction of new migration centres, not that we do not plan to respond adequately to the need in such a situation. Further, in the territorial divisions of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers, I am extending the answer a little bit to the question By August 23, it was filled to 29%, that is, 1486 people were accommodated there. One more thing I'd like to say about the last question you're asking. In connection with previous years' famous protests by citizens who do not want to be found in their settlements, areas, to allow for the establishment and accommodation of migrants. Especially with regard to the village of Boyanovo, there is no provision for what is envisaged and which is being exploited at the moment so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u120	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. That concludes the questions to you. Mr. Chorbanov, come in for a statement from a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u121	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent weeks there has been an increase in the positive in relation to crown virus citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria, which raises many questions about the measures needed to adequately address the coming health and economic crises. And while the separation of budget funds for medicines, the preparation of hospitals and medical teams are a resonant direction for serious efforts, some solutions of health and education authorities are a legitimate concern both among large groups of citizens and among our parliamentary group. The last order of the Minister of Health, which contains encouraging guidelines, according to Minister Katsarov, enabled many heads of state and administration at any level to take personal measures based on the Minister's order. In this regard, it is both for heads of state structures and for private organisations. It is extremely disturbing the order of the Rector of the Medical University in Plovdiv, providing discriminatory training conditions for students with a health certificate for coronavirus compared to those without one. It will lead to extremely bad conditions for the second group's learning process, compared to their colleagues who have provided themselves with the required document in some form. This will be detrimental to the skills and knowledge of future doctors, pharmacists and dentists. Moreover, there are ideas of similar nature and even universities setting under humiliating conditions students admitted under equal conditions and paying the same fees. We are constantly receiving signals and protests from students who find themselves in the discrimination group. No less disturbing are the information concerning the recommendations of health authorities for future measures in schools. Several open letters were announced by teachers and parents protesting the ideas for wearing masks by young students, as well as against the open direct pressure for force vaccination even to people who spent the disease. I appeal to the health minister with a sincere request from Mr. Minister, please cancel the order giving reasons for a number of leaders to interpret the issue of anti-epidemiology measures. And I will end up with a statement distributed in recent days: "When it comes to limiting the movement of sick people, potential disease distributors, this is called quarantine. When the rights of healthy and active people are restricted, without any indication, but with the suspicious assumption of possible contagion, this is called tyranny. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. We continue with the questions to Asen Lichev. The first question is from the MP Yavor Bozhankov on air pollution in Veliko Tarnovo by the Bulgarian company Kronoshpan. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, this is a problem that I have addressed many times to previous ministers, never found a solution. Residents of the district of Cholyakovtsi, of the district of Buzludzha, in Veliko Tarnovo claim that they sense a strong smell that the cars are covered with fine dust in the morning and eventually the huge volumes of wood that Kronoshpan is processing remained unknown to me. I asked such a question to your predecessors, but they said it was a trade secret. Mr. Minister, in the last few years the issue has remained unresolved, and in response from October 2020, the then minister informed us that RIEW The same answer also shows that the company's promised purification facilities are built but work in test mode. Apart from that, it is argued that in the districts of Buzludzha and Cholakovtsi is carried out additional monitoring for the quality of the air. In recent months, however, residents in the neighborhoods close to the enterprise, apart from dust from the usual transport and domestic heating, have also complained about strong smells, claiming that they come precisely from Kronoshpan. Against the backdrop of the outstanding complaints by citizens, evident from the above-mentioned response of the then minister, no reasoned proposal has been received by the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality on the grounds of art. 9 paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act setting stricter emission limit values for the quoted industrial site. In relation to the above, I have the following questions: During the period from October 2020, are there any violations related to air pollution in Veliko Tarnovo by Kronoshpan Bulgaria? Is the RIEW established by Veliko Tarnovo, whether the treatment facilities authorised by condition 9-1-1 of the complex permit, constructed at the date of the previous inspection, are in operation or are still in test mode? Have checks been carried out regarding citizens' claims of strong smell? If, according to the verifiers, the violations by the "Cronoshpan" are still missing, is the intruder identified, is there another intruder and another source of contamination, another source of this smell? To date, is there a reasoned proposal by the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo to set stricter emission limit values for the quoted industrial site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Minister Lichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, first of all, I would like to thank the entire parliament that this week the plenary has become a week of environment and water. You know why. I would like to thank Mr. Bojankov for asking me ten questions, which reduces plenary time by two and a half times, because he has the right to ask me two questions, but these are things that only improve parliamentary procedure. Nevertheless, I will go to answer the five questions, as Mr. Bojankov asked them, and I will cut parliamentary time for parliamentary control. First question. For the period from October 2020 to the present according to the information presented by RIEW, Veliko Tarnovo there are no detected violations concerning specific air pollution in Veliko Tarnovo from the activity of Kronoshpan Bulgaria. The second question. The work of the treatment facilities in test mode is in the order of ZUT and, unfortunately, it makes control activity difficult. According to the information from RIEW, Veliko Tarnovo from 28 treatment facilities, which are authorised to use Kronoshpan Bulgaria, 8 are currently in operation. The remaining 20, according to the Regional Inspection, currently do not comply with the requirement of the loading legislation of more than 70% and therefore no control and own measurements can be carried out on them. From October 2020 with the State Admission Commission, the following emissions sources have been put into operation so far in the ambient air and their respective treatment facilities: wet electricity filter to a combined particle dryer, two sleeve filters to a dreary holding. To the third question. Since the beginning of 2021, a mobile automatic station of the Executive Agency has carried out planned indicative measurements of air quality in the district of Buzludzha. To date, there have been no excesses of the applicable standards of the measured pollutants..Serene dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, ozone and fine particulates. Here I will allow myself to take the opinion of the experts and explain to everyone in the Chamber that there are virtually no smell standards. There are carriers of indicative substances that cause smell at the smallest concentrations, but this is another problem that is currently not regulated in the regulation. In fulfilling the condition of the issued complex permit, Kronoshpan has built and maintained an automatic air quality monitoring station located in the territory of the district of Cholyakovtsi. The monthly reference for fine particulate levels and formaldehyde levels shall be published on the website of the Regional Inspection. From October 2020 until now, 12 excesses of the mid-day standard of 50 micrograms per cubic meter for fine particulate indicator have been recorded at the point. I would like to remind you that there are 35 eligible exceedances within one year. Including the above mentioned for the industry's contribution to the levels of pollution, it cannot be concluded that the reason for the excess is specific and only Kronoshpan Bulgaria. For the formaldehyde indicator there was no excess of the average half-hour and mid-day rate of the indicator, again I make a comment, but that does not mean that there were no smells, because one feels at much lower concentrations the smell. The fourth question. From October 2020 until now, 15 signals and one complaint for smoke and noise from the company's activities have been received in RIOS. No unorganised sources of intensive smelling substances have been found to exist during the site's sightings. The exhaust gases emitted shall pass through the relevant equipment and be released into the atmosphere organised through the relevant devices. During the verification, it was found that the cited treatment facilities were in normal operation mode. With regard to the noise emitted in the environment by the installation, the results obtained and the evaluation made after the checks carried out shows that the values at equivalent noise level along the boundaries of the production site and in places of impact in j.k.a. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man "Cholakovtsi" did not exceed the evening and night level of the limits set in the complex permit, except for the results of the inspection carried out in February 2021. It was then found that a source of high-pitched noise was the movement of timber on an open band conveyor. The Regional Inspectorate has given regulations to silence the adjacent facilities. The fifth question. From the conducted control and own measurements of the sources of emissions of harmful substances in the ambient air located on the territory of Veliko Tarnovo, until now there have been no excesses of the emission limit values, including those of Kronoshpan Bulgaria. The sixth question. There was no reasoned proposal from the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo on the grounds of art. 9 paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act setting stricter emission limit values for the quoted industrial site.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Bojankov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in the end it doesn't matter who governs, who is a minister, who is the head of the RIEW. The result for the citizens seems to remain the same. The source of pollution, we understand, cannot be identified. That is why I have also raised the question, if it is not this source, is there another source? There is no single answer, although residents in the neighborhood are quite distinctly reading the dust on their terraces and cars and the smell that doesn't stop and their eyes see the chimney and the tens of meters of smoke that spews the plant, but the authorities still can't tell where this is coming from. Of the 28 treatment facilities, 8 work, 20 could not be put into operation. If I make a retrospect for the investor in question in other countries, I have to tell you that this is obviously just a way of working because everywhere this investor is accompanied by fines, scandals, protests, exactly the same stories As you can see from the investor's measurements, there's no problem. If there is no problem, then it remains to tell citizens that everything is a figment of their imagination, subjective feeling, a sensitive nose that captures the smells, but they are clearly normal and continue to live happily ever after and not to worry. I'm not satisfied with that answer. Unfortunately, I don't see who they're going to turn to either. I, as a MP, can do so if the RIEW and the Ministry of Environment cannot do otherwise, and the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo has not sought the opportunities by law to establish stricter standards for this industrial site, obviously there is no power in Bulgaria to exercise control and everything remains clear guilt, responsibility and subjective feeling of citizens and people living in these two districts and in all of Veliko Tarnovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Minister Lichev, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u129	Dear Mr. Bojankov, you are asking me, based on the current regulations and the permissible concentrations of the substances in the air, to challenge them. These concentrations have been adopted and transposed by the European directives. I agree that everything has specific complexes of influences that should primarily be the concern of the local authorities, and my response to point six could give me reason to take any measures, but the mayor has not stated such a wish so far. However, as far as noise is concerned, in February, when experts go, they give specific prescriptions and the duration of the measures they have prescribed is the end of September 2021, which has not yet expired, and I cannot intervene during that time. So your generalization that you have no one to turn to and that we are doing nothing is absolutely not accurate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u130	Thank you, Minister Lichev. We move on to the second issue by the MP Yavor Bojankov on illegal landfill for construction waste to the village of Ledenik, Veliko Tarnovo municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the construction waste depot in the village of Ledenik has been in existence since 1972 and has long since expired. The municipal administration is adamant that the depot should be closed, offering for this purpose the construction of a modern recycling site, despite this solution to the 2016 problem, is sought and has not been found so far. It is also argued that the base of the depot grew by 60 meters, which is located between three ravens. The distance between the depot and the nearby river is dangerously short. Locals are worried that the depot is an ecological bomb, and they want its reclamation. The municipality of Veliko Tarnovo is adamant that the only solution is the construction of a new site. The dispute between city hall and municipality deepened, leading to a local referendum in Icenik in September. Minister, on the territory of Veliko Tarnovo district you have to travel over 50 km from some settlements to dispose of construction waste and you have to pay separately is the question of how legal the depot is. Imagine how much this is worth? I will tell you that perhaps a container of construction waste from a small settlement would cost more than 400 leva to be transported in this order. This leads to a number of unregulated dumps. Citizens in the area, having no choice, and we cannot blame them for that, began to dump their unregulated construction waste. The municipality from there starts to pay for cleaning unregulated dumps, hence begins to suffer the environment, naturally, and the health of citizens. In relation to the above, I ask the following questions: has the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo been sanctioned for the state of the construction waste depot in the village of Ledenik; have they taken responsibility by the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo for the fact that despite their knowledge that the landfill for several years has been illegal, construction waste has continued to be disposed of; has a real check been carried out by the RIEW Veliko Tarnovo; is there real danger to the life and health of the inhabitants of the village of Ledenik; what has it been established; has a check been carried out whether the waters of the nearby river have been contaminated due to the significant increase of the landfill; have studies been carried out at other appropriate places in Veliko Tarnovo to build a new landfill for construction waste? There and from the road with the naked eye is seen, Minister, that on this depot there are all kinds of waste and not just construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I'm glad you asked me that question. It relates to the discussion that took place on Wednesday. I said this was a national problem and I advised the legislators to do so to assist the mayors in solving their powers under art. 9 of the Waste Management Act. Once again, I would like to stress, as you have heard, the problem has existed since 1972. I don't want to apologize, I was 20 years old, maybe I could have interfered. I'm going over the answers to the questions specifically. The municipality of Veliko Tarnovo has been sanctioned for breach of the provisions of the Waste Management Act by a criminal decree of 22 July 2021, notice, the Director of RIEW Veliko Tarnovo, amounting to 5 thousand. lv. An act establishing an administrative infringement was drawn up on 29 July 2021 by the Director of the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region for violations of the Water Act, namely for failure to comply with prescriptions for emergency drainage of the self-pollution section of the ravines, the watershed prior to the bulk-building waste, and for maintaining it in a drained state until recovery the conduction of the ravine passing through properties which you will not be spoken to until 30 April 2021. For non-compliance with the prescription, the cleaning of a section of the gorge from wood and shrub vegetation shall be carried out by 31 May 2021, which is not fulfilled. Secondly, by letter of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, which has submitted to RIEW "Veliko Tarnovo," a timetable for specific actions that the municipality will take in relation to bringing the depot in line with the legal requirements. The Ministry of Environment and Waters and RIEW "Veliko Tarnovo" expect this schedule to be strictly implemented by the municipality. Thirdly, during the checks carried out by RIEW experts, control was carried out on the components and factors of the environment and, above all, on the obligation of the mayor of the municipality, regulated in the Waste Management Act. Prescriptions have been issued for identified non-compliances and a sanction has been imposed. No indications of disaster or emergency have been identified in carrying out checks. These may have been written to me to point out to me and to you that a financial source along the line of disaster and emergency situations was impossible to find. On the fourth issue, the Swimming Directorate has assessed the ecological and chemical status of the Yantra River in the area of the depot. Monitoring data 2010 - 2014 show poor environmental status. The deviation from the environmental performance standards has been established according to ammonium nitrogen, nitrate nitrogen, nitrite nitrogen, total nitrogen, orthophosphate and total phosphorus, macrosoobent, bentos and macrophytes, which is proof that this is an impact of the existing landfill, which may be for construction waste, but here it is seen that it is mixed and that any of the data I am telling you is being discarded. In 2021, based on monitoring data by the end of 2020, the water body is defined as a moderate environmental condition, the trend being to monitor improvement in terms of environmental status, but this is normal because I guess much less is already being discarded on it. Following an inspection carried out in March 2021, where samples of five points were taken on the Yantra River, these non-compliances were found. In the ravine near the depot, high levels of manganese were found in the samples, which means that there are processes within which you are aware that organic matter is present, the concentration of which has reached 621 micrograms per litre and exceeds 12 times the determined norm of 50 micrograms for manganese in practice in the ravine passing east of the depot, which drains the water, the infiltrates from this depot. Following the verification, provisions have been given that have not been fulfilled and an act has been drawn up to establish an administrative infringement of 29 July 2021 by the Directorate-General in the The Ministry of Environment and Water has no other data to carry out and study by the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo to build a landfill for construction waste except those described. We inform that the Regional Waste Management System "Veliko Tarnovo Municipality," including a regional landfill, has been granted a complex permit since 2013, which allows disposal of waste from group 17 s of construction and demolition waste, including soil excavated from contaminated sites, according to Regulation No 2 on the classification of waste.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. Really very detailed and professional. I'll start my line backwards. When it comes to the regional system to which my third question relates, which is written, however, because I am not entitled to a third oral question. The regional system and the Association of Municipalities decided that they no longer accept waste from legal entities because the capacity of the cell is filling faster than anticipated. Who, how did it envision a long theme, but ultimately there waste, including from this code, cannot be disposed of, I have this letter. The only option left is the village of Ledenik, which is illegal, and assuming that it is illegal for Veliko Tarnovo region, remains the only option that such an option simply does not exist. In fact, construction waste is legally in the territory of the whole region of Veliko Tarnovo there is no place to dump it. That's not an insult to you. It's really a problem that's been generated for years. Indeed, it is a problem not solved by your predecessors, and it is a question of reform, because it is not only about local authorities that must be secured, which must be sanctioned when it is not doing its job, but also a question of reforming environmental legislation, which is from the last century in relation to construction waste. They are not used in construction. There are no such obligations, there are no such norms, there is therefore no such incentive either for the State that can adequately deal with them or for the private sector that can adequately treat them. Just because there is no economic logic and legal basis that implies such order and stimulates recycling of construction waste. This problem will get worse. Here I draw a conclusion that while there is no regular cabinet and government to make these necessary reforms and changes, the region of Veliko Tarnovo will sink into increasingly serious environmental problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u136	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. We move on to the next issue from the National Representative Mincho Hristov on limiting the import of carcinogenic and harmful waste in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Hristov, if you'd care to elaborate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Just a few days ago, here in this room, there was a hearing about the mountains of junk, I call them junk, colleagues, not waste and not there with your complicated names. These are pure junk that have flooded Bulgaria, which burn in the thermal plants, burn in cement factories and all these harmful substances............................................................................................................................................................. I congratulate fellow journalists who have raised and continue to raise this topic from the site "Bivol", Eurocom TV, and I have done several shows on this topic myself. We showed the mountains of junk that are still standing around different power plants. Colleagues, it's so the Italian mob pays our native mobsters to burn their junk here. Big money! Somewhere I've heard they go up to 300 euros a ton, where the most harmful substances are. If you think the astronomical prices of electricity and steam are falling from the burning of this shit, which is why the thermal power stations are getting huge money, you're lying to yourself, guys. Prices continue to rise with the favourable contribution of the Water and Energy Regulatory Commission. The result we know is that we breathe poisons, diseases, misery, poverty for all of us, and for several people huge profits. Huge profits! But they and their children live abroad and generally come to collect only the leptique here in Bulgaria. What action do you, Mr. Minister, take to limit this banditism, this poisoning of the Bulgarian population, which continues now?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u138	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, another question that was related to the huge waste hearing on Wednesday. There, I think I've described very thoroughly what this is about. I'll repeat here so it can be established. First of all, as long as I was a minister of duty, there's no illegal waste imports. I didn't sign a notification for imports of mixed waste with a code 19 12 12, which are those from the Ndranges. I have organised the adoption by the government of the National Waste Management Programme, which gives me legal basis to ban and limit the import of mixed waste with a code 19 12 12, which should rather be deposited than burned, because the harmful emissions from it are undoubtedly out of control and are unacceptable to the territory of the country. Specifically on your question. 250,000 tonnes of hazardous waste intended for recovery has been imported into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2015-2015 from cross-border transport of waste. It is important to note that imported waste represents raw material in metallurgy, the production of batteries, the production of oils and lubricants, etc. In this regard, I note that according to art. 98 of the Waste Management Act prohibits shipments of waste in the Republic of Bulgaria intended for disposal, including disposal. How many of these waste are burned in different thermal plants? Wastes intended for combustion for energy use are mainly RDFs, modified fuels with a code of 19 12 10 and mixed wastes with a code of 19 12 12, which are not hazardous wastes under the classification. For the period 2015 - 2019 in Bulgaria were obtained from imports 375 000 tonnes of RDF modified fuels and 11 400 tonnes of mixed waste with code 19 12 12. These are the waste of the Ndranges, the 78,000 that I told you were previously imported illegally. Of these waste 19 775 are intended for combustion with recovery from the thermal plants and the rest of the cement plants. At present, no one burns waste with a code 19 12 12. What is the control of the Ministry? Control is very difficult and complicated. It is first of all preventative by issuing the so-called notification issued by the Minister or by an authorised person. Once again, I declare that as long as it was me and until the end of my term, no one will receive such notification. Otherwise, there are connected institutions such as the intestine, which tells me that perhaps control is moving towards universal irresponsibility: the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Director of the Customs Agency according to their powers. The control bodies are the directors of the RIEW, the customs authorities, the authorities of the Directorate-General for Border Police and of the units of the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As you can see, I'm even ashamed to read it. The only thing I'm counting on is that there's a system online. I have ordered to place an entrance to the site of the Ministry, where everyone can receive daily data on what quantities of imported waste and by codes enter the territory of the country, including those intended for combustion. Of course, this system has a flaw. There is also a GPS track on the vehicle that transports them, but this is to the object of the first receiver. From the location of the first receiver to any potential and other users and users, there is virtually no control. In order to prevent and repeat the situation since 2020, it is meant for Italian waste, at the time of public consultation it is a draft decision of the Council of Ministers, which will prohibit and limit entirely the import of waste by code 19 12 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, don't think I have any contempt for you. I have contempt for those who were before you. Some, by the way, are also investigative, as far as I know. The question from now on is: what to do really to stop the imports of these mountains of junk that, again, I say, are burned and we all breathe? We're all breathing! In this sense, I welcome you for the draft decision of the Council of Ministers, I hope it will come true. I myself tabled a draft decision by the Bulgarian Parliament on 13 August, and I address all of you, honourable Members of all parliamentary groups - support it. A draft decision to stop the import of dangerous trash is called: I'll read you a few lines only: In recent years a huge amount of waste, including harmful to the health of citizens, has been imported into Bulgaria. Much of this waste was buried in landfills from all over the country, another part burned in different thermal plants. This burning was contaminating with dangerous substances, furans and so on, the air of whole regions with all the health-threatening effects of humans. The international press reflected numerous facts about the connection of criminal circles from different countries with the import of these toxic waste. I am talking about the Italian Mafia and its counterparties here in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, in certain places next to several TPPs, there are still huge quantities of these mountains of garbage. It is therefore imperative that the Bulgarian state take measures to protect the health and life of its citizens. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Please also tell your opinion, but rather I address this House and the Parliament's leadership. Let us distribute this draft decision, we have useful time to accept it and to preserve the health of our fellow citizens who have sent us here not to argue with each other, but to defend their interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u142	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u143	Dear Mr. Hristov, now with my guidance, forced administrative measures have been issued by the Plenix Pleven Ltd., where at the moment are located 9000 tonnes of mixed waste with this code 19 12 12 and at the site of TPP Bobov dol I can very hardly handle it now, because both companies are both broken up or in liquidation, or to which the owner has already been sentenced, have appealed, please imagine, with the condition that the Italian party had come to collect these waste from Bulgaria. That's all I'm gonna say. If I have to make it clear, I've taken 300 euros per tonne of 10,000 tonnes is 3 million. Euros, something like that, I've left them here at the playground, to come and get them the Italian side. How does that sound? Sounds really bad to me. But in the context of what Mr. Hristov says, I would like to reassure him that all the documents that I have found available with regard to suspicious notifications, the questionable intentions at all to import such waste, and especially those which have been illegally imported and burned in the past, are in the hands of the competent authorities. I hope they get their hands on each other and we all understand these people, if they're guilty, to earn their sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following is a question from the National Representative Zornitsa Velinova Stratieva on bringing the activities of TPP to the requirements of Directive 2010/75 of the European Union. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u145	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lichev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I refer to you as regards the expiry date on the implementation of the European Parliament directive on industrial emissions with regard to compliance with the air pollution standards of large sulphur dioxide combustion plants, nitrogen oxide, mercury and particulate matter. Among the plants in the Marishka pool, which requested derogations under the order of art. 123a, para. 3 of the Law on Environmental Protection, the TPP is the only one at whose request the Environmental Executive Agency has not spoken. The TPP is known for frequent accidents and systemic violations of environmental requirements that put at risk the health of those working in the headquarters and residents in the area. In recent years, the plant of the TPP has been burning significant quantities of fuel without the necessary permit. The annual reports inform us that in 2018 the fuels that the plant burns and which are not authorised by its complex permit are 25.07 percent, in 2019 they increase to 35% and in 2020 we reach 41.12%. In quite often cases, we are informed about them by both the media and the violent public discontent. In this regard, I would like you to inform me and the society concerned on this matter. In view of the wide range of powers of control bodies against environmental and human health offenders, how will you explain the frequent accidents and systemic violations of the environmental legislation of the TPP and in the case of renewal of the complex permit of the plant, how will it be ensured that it will meet the new environmental and human health requirements so as not to allow frequent accidents and systematic violation of the environmental legislation that we are currently witnessing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u146	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please respond within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, you are putting an important issue at the heart of the 2010 directive. But here it is very important to say that in 2017. The European Commission adopted a delegated act to the 2010 directive on industrial emissions. With the new directive, in practice, large combustion plants must increase the sulphurification by 0.6%. Since August 17th this year, the new requirements have come into force. The basic directive allows for a derogation from those higher rules, but it is explicitly stated in the basic directive that when granting a derogation, the competent authority must ensure that no significant pollution of the environment is caused. I, as Minister of the Environment, am led mainly by this guarantee to give to the inhabitants, to the people. The answer to this question is as follows. The Executive Agency is currently conducting a procedure for issuing a new complex license for TPP. When granting the complex permit to the operator, conditions for the operation of the installation falling within Chapter II of that Directive shall be laid down. The complex permit will lay down the standards currently amended to ensure that emissions do not exceed the emission levels set out in the Decision in normal operation in accordance with the best techniques. As far as the installation's frequent accidents are concerned, there is a proposal in the complex permit to record a condition for their limitation, including by decommissioning the combustion plant until the technical measures that ensure compliance with emission limit values are implemented. In relation to the infringements committed by the TPP operator, for non-compliance with the conditions of the complex authorisation in force administrative criminal proceedings have been initiated relating to: exceeding the authorised capacity of the plant; burning of non-licensed types of fuels, in this case biomass; unregulated, disorganised emissions; non-compliance with the conditions for starting and stopping the energy boilers; unauthorised emission of harmful substances through chimney 2, outside the cases permitted in the complex permit. In accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, each operator should offer appropriate techniques and measures ensuring the lawful operation of the installation and ensuring the standards and standards for the quality of the environment, including the prevention of accidents and pollution of the environment. The future of Brickel "EAD" must depend on the operator's investment policy to achieve a good technical condition of the facilities, on the construction of a flue-gas cleaning installation, a 2 "Sero-cleaning installation" to ensure the achievement of the new standard for sulphur dioxin 320 milligrams of Newton-meter cubic. According to the information available, however, the project for the construction of the sero-cleaning installation is not implemented, which calls into question the possibility of the TPP of Brickel.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line. You're giving up. Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva concerning the village of Karamanitsa, where are located two minis Their location is close to the Dragovishtitsa River, which, after the border with our western neighbor, enters the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, passes through a number of settlements and flows into the Struma River. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is caused by a signal which I received from my constituents from Kyustendil District, and in relation to precisely these two minis "Swunts" and "Popovica" for lead, copper and zinc and other precious metals in the region of the village of Karamanitsa, Bosilegrad Municipality, Republic of Serbia. Their location is close to the Dragovishtitsa River, which, after the border with our western neighbor, enters the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, passes through a number of settlements and flows into the Struma River. The Serbian side has drawn up a document on the activities of the two minis request to determine the scope and content of the Environmental Impact Assessment Project. According to familiar locals near the mines, there is a safe house built on the flowing river, a flood of the Dragovishtitsa river, and that in the section "Cumulative effects" are not commented at all. The sediments and affected rivers have not been tested; nowhere is it about working water, closed cycle and so on. We recall that in the Bosilegrad region there is another mine for copper, lead and zinc in the region of Lyubatska River, two more future mines for gold, one for the Lyubatska River, and the other for more than 30 small hydropower plants. Please answer: what are the actions taken, whether and what information is there in the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria on the issue of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Cross-border context and what actions have been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u150	And thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vassileva, since my appointment as Minister of Service I have been working actively to activate the dialogue with the competent Serbian institutions. We are in close cooperation and coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a dialogue that is not going very smoothly. At the beginning of my term of office, I invited the Minister of Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia to hold a meeting at which we can sign an Environmental Impact Assessment Agreement and discuss the environmental issues that you and our Bulgarian fellow citizens living in Serbia are worried about. Due to a lack of response from the Serbian side on August 19th, I renewed this invitation to the Serbian Minister for the Environment. On my and the Minister of Foreign Affairs' initiative, on 26 July 2021, a meeting was held with the European Union delegation to Belgrade with the participation of European Union diplomats and representatives of the Serbian Ministry of Environment Protection. During the meeting, the Serbian side said that the documents for the development of a new mine in Karamanica, which includes all mines, united under the common name Serbian company Bosil-Metal, are prepared for sending Bulgaria, according to the Convention on Cross-border EIA. Such documents were received yesterday at the Ministry, which is, I would say, unsurpassed success. This desire has been repeatedly declared by the Bulgarian side and now we will be able to proceed. However, in addition, European Commissioners Virgnius Sinkyavichus, Commissioner for Environment and Oceans and Fisheries, and Oliver Varhei, Commissioner for Neighbourhood and Enlargement, are concerned with the fact that Serbia has partly transposed environmental and water directives. They are also informed that there is no notification to art. 4 of the Convention on Cross-border EIA, in the context and in respect of Minis In response, the European Commissioners have indicated that the European Commission is monitoring and evaluating progress annually on bringing Serbia closer to European Union environmental law, including through the meetings of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Serbia on the environment. The Commission has raised the issue of water pollution in cross-border rivers, water monitoring, including in Serbia's border regions. Once again, I stress the importance and importance of the subject of compliance with environmental standards by a Serbian country, for which the Ministry of Environment is active and consistent. I, by not wanting to devalue the worry of the Bulgarian citizens in Serbia, on the other side of the border, want to reassure our citizens that, for now, from the constant monitoring of the Dragovishtitsa river according to our norms, which are European, no pollution has been observed on our territory, but that does not mean anything. I'll give you an example, like the mini Chiprevets and the reservoir over Montana, it wasn't originally contaminated, but all this has been postponed along the shores and now we are suffering the consequence of a pollution that was done 50 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u152	Thank you. You're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you very much for the efforts made so far, for following this problem closely and doing everything necessary to really be able not only our fellow citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also all residents living in the territory of Kyustendil district, including those settlements, through which the rivers and the Struma respectively pass, because this is an extremely important problem for both countries, both Serbia and Bulgaria. Our efforts to protect the health of Bulgarian citizens must be consistent and be a priority, so we will continue to monitor how the issue with the Serbian country develops. I see that you still have small, but some steps towards success in co-operation with our neighbour Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u154	Thank you. Would you like a douche? No. Thank you. The next question is from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov on actions and omissions of the Ministry of Environment and Waters in Case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Minister, as MP from the electoral district of Burgas, one of the most prominent cases of illegal construction on the southern Black Sea coast is located on the territory of my electoral area, namely Alephu's support hotel. This is a modern Bulgarian fairy tale with a heavy smell of corruption. What are the facts we know so far? A private investor decides to build 50 meters from the sea in two protected areas, part of the Natura 2000 network, decides to build a hotel, but due to the fact that it falls into protected areas and that this would raise some very large public discontent, in its investment proposal it is listed as a Geodesicic facility to strengthen an existing landslide. Here is the point to note that such coastal activities to combat erosion fall within the Annexes to the Environmental Protection Act in Annex No 2, item. 10 m and therefore subject to the relevant environmental assessment, namely the EIA Report. The then director of the Regional Inspection in Burgas somehow helpfully missed this fact and described in his letter that this activity of strengthening an existing landslide does not fall into the application of the law, therefore it is not subject to EIA. A decision must be issued by RIEW Burgas to approve this project. The director then suddenly took leave of absence and commissioned his deputy to sign this decision. The deputy obviously felt what he was involved in, signed, but referred to the letter stating that this was not subject to EIA. Subsequently, we under the Public Information Access Act want this letter to see who signed it, who gave the initial indication that this is not subject to the EIA............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I only got to him nine months later, after the prosecution looked and saw that there was a illegal decision in violation of the law. From then on, our signals have awakened the prosecution for months, the prosecution has already submitted a protest to the court to date and asks for the annulment of an unlawful decision issued by RIEW Burgas. The construction has been halted, we all know, but all this time the Ministry of Environment and Water has been acting strangely as a side monitor of this whole process and it is not clear whether the Ministry has dealt with this so marked case, as I said with a severe taste of corruption. In the meantime, I will only draw attention to the fact that the then director of RIEW Burgas is conveniently moving as head of the RIEW again. The person who signed as his replacement this scandalous decision is the head of the department of the same Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters. My questions in this regard are: does the Ministry of Environment and Water maintain the thesis of the District Prosecutor's Office, which claims that the mandatory EIA report of this project was not carried out under the Environmental Act, which violated the law? Has the Ministry of Environment and Water also performed a check at the Ministry of Environment and Waters and found violations of RIEW employees in the process and approval without EIA of the above investment proposal? And it is also interesting for all citizens and colleagues in the National Assembly to learn: has the lawyer of RIEW received methodical instructions: at the court sessions that are currently taking place, to behave as an investor's lawyer, trying to convince the court that this scandalous investment proposal has been properly approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u156	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Member of the National Assembly, thank you very much for this question, which is extremely important and I will answer you with an answer that will be of great interest to you. First of all, the whole story you're asking me about, I won't say it's over because you know. To the first question, if I remember the audience, I firmly answer to support the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office! Did that sound good? To the second question: has an inspection been carried out at the Ministry of Environment and Water? I'll still say historical facts...... was verified by the previous regular minister, but only when the prosecution asked him the question about Alephu. He then felt that the work had somehow not been clean, probably from 2017 to 2019. 2020 and appointed a working group of lawyers who told him that the decision of the Director of RIEW had entered into force and it could not be revoked by the Minister, nor could it be appealed. And that's why it's best that they let the D.A. protest it and call it off. But here I cannot agree with your announcement that the investor who submitted the investment plan for the initial assessment of the EIA has written that he will make a support facility at all. Not at all! I have in my hands the decision of the director of Burgas of 29 December 2017. The investor wants to agree with him an investment proposal for the construction of a resort complex including the village of Aleppu and the village of Alephu. The investment proposal provides for the construction of a resort complex with an area of 7568 sq. m for its first area here I do not see it, with an area of 20 858 sq. m. Next are scheduled rooms, toilets, bathrooms. Somewhere down it is written that it will play the role of a support facility, but if there are building engineers here, they will understand the poles that are made in the sand and down in the rocks and then serve as a stronger foundation for the building. This is a fact.. 29 December 2017. The question is absolutely real: what have you completed by 2020, while the prosecution asks the question? Well, they didn't do anything. It's just that it's been kept quiet, no one's paid attention to him with all those things that you said. When I saw these documents, and it was about your question, because they were all semi-covered, then I thought, even though it couldn't be undone because the statute of limitations had passed, that at least disciplinary proceedings could have been initiated against the employees who issued it. There was no such thing. I, as an idealist, then replaced the director of RIEW Burgas. Maybe she was accidentally framed, but she signed that decision. So. All the paperwork is now in the D.A.'s office. We're waiting for the court to decide. On the second question, whether he received the Council of Jurissul during my term of office did not receive such advice at all. If he's had any advice before, I don't have any proof for him. I don't know if the answer pleases you, but I don't know if what I told you is going to blow up public space, but here's the paperwork. Although this is in the hands of the prosecution and I may be accused of not having the right to comment on it, I could not keep it from the MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the honourable minister for his comprehensive response. As we can see, new and new things are coming up around this scandalous case. A slight reference to what you said that you released the director of RIEW Burgas. Yes, this is Mrs. Detelina Ivanova, as I recall the name. [[Reply from Minister of the Service Assen Lichev.]] And Tanya Manolova, as far as I know, is at work right now. You may not have appointed her, but she, as far as I know right now, if my information is not wrong, is a department chief in the same inspection. Because I mentioned Mrs. Detelina Ivanova, who was a director, who you really released by your order, and in my opinion very rightly, she was involved in the proceedings of this scandalous project. That is, she was involved in the process, but the director at the time was the current director of RIEW Haskovo. In this regard, my question was specifically: if, as you claim, violations were found and you maintain the prosecution's thesis that a violation has been committed by specific law enforcement officers, and these are two employees.. Tanya Manolova and Tonka Atanasova, the current director of RIEW Haskovo, will you, as a minister, cause any action from your country to receive some administrative penalty, as employees still of RIEW Burgas and Haskovo? Will they bear their responsibility and when? That was actually my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u160	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u161	I thought, dear Mr. MP, that the answer pleases you, and you push me into the depths of matter that I do not know. You know, whether he's guilty or broken something, he's no longer in my hands. It's in the hands of the D.A. I can only assume, and from an act which was not even signed, a conclusion of a working group to the previous minister, saying that three years ago his subordinate director of RIEW signed an act that did not comply with the law? I told you right now that I'm even speaking only thanks to my respect for you. Let's be patient. All the names you said are in the documents. If the prosecution finds out they're guilty, or if they're convicted, they'll certainly take it. I don't want to name names. The director I found at RIEW Burgas, I released her immediately in connection with this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov about the violation by RIEW Burgas, of art. 17, para. 1 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, etc. 5.12 of Order No RD-400 of 12 June 2016 of the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the definition of the boundaries and regimes of the protected zone Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Article 17 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act states that no land use can be changed and construction in the zone.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this case, however, municipalities in which there is no general establishment plan in a tandem with the Ministry of Environment and Water through their regional inspections allow this to happen, although in the Constitutional Court decision No 9 of 2013, it is explicitly mentioned that the existence of a territorial development plan cannot replace the requirement in art. 17 for a common planning. Because the municipalities are issuing some expert advice, they say: the respective municipality has no common planning, but it has an active territorial development plan, so that we do not stop private investment, we will solve. RIEW Burgas did not take advantage of its opportunity to rule on the legality and eligibility of the respective investment intention, based on the decision of the municipality concerned and willingly authorised this construction in violation of art. 17 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. But not only does this make it specific and in violation of Order No 400 of 12 June 2016 of the Minister of Environment and Water, the order for determining the borders and regimes in the protected zone. I have quoted in my question a concrete investment proposal. And this only illustrates the answers that I have received on my numerous signals on such cases to the Ministry. The Ministry has always justified these actions, spoken before your inauguration, lawyered up these decisions and convinced that a territorial development plan replaces a common planning plan where the law is absolutely explicit, including in the motives of Constitutional Court Decision No 9 of 2013. In this sense, I would like to describe that I have submitted signals not only to the Ministry of Environment and Water, but also to the Prosecutor's Office. We have a Decision of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office of 1 April which fully recognises what is described in these signals and confirms that the existence of a territorial planning does not in any way replace the lack of a common spatial plan. However, this vicious practice continues to this day, and we are all talking about how we should defend our Black Sea coast as a huge national value, how we should not allow illegal construction in the zone of A and zone of B and the state itself through its authorities helps and allows for violation of the law and therefore illegal construction in the zone of A and zone of B. In this regard, my questions are as follows: Why has the Ministry of Environment and Water not taken action to stop the wicked practice of coordinating and approving investment intentions relating to the modification of the purpose of the property located in the areas of the zone "A" and "B" of the Black Sea coast without an entry into force common planning plan, as required by the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the orders for protected areas and the reasons of the Constitutional Court Decision? I have set an example of Decision No 25 of 8 April 2020 of the Director of the RIEW Burgas to assess the possible degree of significant negative impact on protected areas, which is agreed on the preparation of the PSU-PRZ for the purpose of regulation. Why did the Ministry justify the illegal actions of the RIEW Burgas, in response to my signals? Will an inspection be carried out, will responsibility be sought, and will the illegal decisions of RIEW be called for, or will I have to submit endless signals to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u164	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mr. Naydenov, this question may be the most boring and indeed will not satisfy your answer, because the fabric of ZCHK and ZUT for me is a great swamp. I see what the experts have prepared for me, and your expectations of what you want to hear from me will hardly be satisfied. One thing I just want to say in advance is that anything that is legally admissible, I have taken it immediately. It turns out to be an almost identical case like Aleppu's. These are the acts of the Director of the RIEW, which have entered into force and cannot be annulled or appealed, have also gone to the prosecution, and they have written to me here as a conclusion that the guilty will be convicted according to the order of the investigation and the court. I'm telling you what the end is, but now I'm going to read you everything in detail, I'm going to tell you plots, numbers that you're going to tolerate. The procedure for issuing Decision BS-25-PROS of 08.04.2020 started with the submission of 10 February 2020 in RIEW Burgas, of a notification by the contracting authority Mr. Tsvetan Kemerov, for coordination, preparation of PSU-PRZ for property with identifier 00833.6.446 on the Cadastral map of the city of Aheloy, Municipality of Pomorie, in order to regulate a new UME and take away the envisaged indicators of construction. This property is of permanent use, it is agricultural land and a way of permanent use. Levels, the same does not fall within the boundaries of the protected areas defined under the Law on Protected Areas, but falls within a protected area within the meaning of the Biodiversity Act, the Natura 2000 ecological network, the protected zone Aheloy Ravda, Nessebar for the conservation of natural habitats of the wild flora and fauna, announced by the Order of 2016 of the Minister of Environment and Water. After consulting the information system for the Natura 2000 site published on the MOEW site, it was found that the property was not identified as a natural habitat subject to conservation in the protected area, which I quoted. Because me, if I keep telling you the names and numbers of the properties, I'm not gonna have enough time. According to a point of the above order, within the protected area, a change in the purpose of agricultural land, forest areas is prohibited, unless it is envisaged to enter into force a common establishment plan, with the exception of property within the boundaries of settlements and settlements. In order to carry out a check of eligibility of the plan in relation to the quoted regime of activities in the protected zone, RIEW The contracting authority presented in RIEW "Burgas," on 26 February 2020 a protocol of the municipal expert council on a structure on the territory and a statement of 12 March 2020, issued by the Chief Architect of Pomorie Municipality. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 of the decision of Protocol No 6 of 26.02.2020 of the General Expert Council on a structure in the territory of Pomorie municipality certify that the property falls within an area intended for the extension of the locality, in accordance with the existing territorial planning plan of the Municipality of Pomorie. It is also pointed out that the change in the purpose of agricultural land in the protected zone is permissible if provided for in the active ODP, respectively TMP. The Municipal Expert Council considered that the proposal was in line with the current legal framework concerning the procedures for changing the purpose of agricultural land for non-farm purposes. With the certificate of the same date, the main architect of Pomorie municipality certified that the quoted property on the cadastral map of the town. Aheloy, Municipality of Pomorie, falls into the area of "new residential areas" in accordance with the current TPO, approved by Order No 405 of 21.08.1997 of the Mayor of Pomorie Municipality. On the basis of the documentation provided, the Director of the RIEW has carried out an eligibility check against the ban, which I quoted a short time ago from the order to announce the protected zone and issued a decision. The decision was made public on the website of RIEW Burgas, on 15 April 2020, it was not contested and entered into force within the statutory period. The second question. As apparent from the answer to the previous question, the administrative act was issued in accordance with the administrative rules of the competent authority and in accordance with the material law. I draw attention to the fact that the file of the Director's decision issued has been reported to the District Attorney's Office in relation to a contracting act of 09.11.2020 on an inspection initiated on an alert. Here you can see what internal contradiction is contained in this sentence, which I just read to you, I read to you on purpose literally. Above we say that the act was issued in accordance with all the rules, and below we pay attention to the fact that we report it to the prosecution. You'll excuse me for this, but you'll have to wait for the end. According to a signal from Mr. Dimitar Naydenov to the Minister of Environment and Water in February 2021 the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Environment and Water has carried out a verification of three decisions of RIEW Burgas from 21.10.2020, BS-64-PR from 20.10.2020 and BS-44-PROS from 31.08.2020. In the report of the Inspectorate's verification, they concluded that the procedure under Chapter VI of the EEA Agreement, combined with the procedure under the Regulation on the assessment of compatibility or a separate procedure under the Regulation on the assessment of compatibility, assessed the likely negative environmental impact on the implementation of the POS or the implementation of an investment proposal. The change in the purpose of agricultural land shall be carried out by order of another competent authority. The procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming needs, approving plans and authorising the construction is carried out in the following stages by law, by law which you are asking RIEWs do not have direct competence in the implementation of these laws. In this sense, RIEW Burgas, there are no direct obligations to apply art. Seventeen of the BOOK. I'm telling you, but inside I'm not sure I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u167	It's been a while.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u168	With all due respect, you've exceeded your response time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u169	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u170	It's okay, but I do understand that the subject is wide-ranging. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer and indeed for the very friendly approach to the answers to my questions. I see he understands me perfectly. However, I would like to draw attention to the general public that we have witnessed again in at least four sentences I have heard how once again a sign of equality is placed between the territorial planning and the General Development Plan, for which in the reasons of Decision No 9 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court it is described that this is not correct. We also have a decision on April 1st of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, which cancels all decisions of the Prosecutor's Office of Appeal and District in Burgas, with which they had once again placed a sign of equality between the TUP and the ODP, which is already clearly clear that art. Seventeen of the BOOK has been violated in relapse conditions. Here I want to ask a rhetorical question: what do we do with art. 17 of ZCHK, given that municipalities and MOEWs transfer their problem as ping-pong from one to the other? The municipality says, well, at the expert council, it was decided that since there is a TOP, there is no need to have an OUP. The RIEW says: "Well, we are not a competent body on BOOKs, but we do not rule on the admissibility and legality of the decision. This is how the Black Sea coast is built, without any regard for the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. How long is this gonna last? I, as MP, ask myself the question: who should observe art. 17 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, provided that the state authorities do not comply with it? You yourself have confirmed that this law is not really respected. Last, I refer to the responsibility of the employees in RIEW Burgas. All I am saying is that the prosecution is currently examining the legality of the decision issued both to Aleppu and to the acts issued to approve investment intentions contrary to art. 17, but the D.A. doesn't take responsibility from the employees who issued it, and the court won't come up with such a decision. My question is which, if you wish, will you answer: is it right for employees who are reported to have systematically violated both Alephu and Art. 17 of the BOOK, keep standing at these posts, given that the violations are obvious? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u172	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. In order not to turn the parliamentary platform into a discussion, I invite you to come to our ministry on Tuesday, to gather you with those officials who have written this reply, with the lawyers who are competent to ZUT and ZUCHK, directly in the eyes together we will ask these questions and we will look for these answers. If you accept that... Because, how do I say, I'm all on your side inside, but what do you make me do when I finally read you a sample of the findings of the internal audit? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you care to comment on the Minister's response? Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Mincho Hristov Kuminev about the current state of water losses in the Republic of Bulgaria and the possible ways to limit them. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question is not so much about numbers, although we will hear them here, the question is: what is the ratio of water companies' losses to water prices, and it is extremely direct? The more water waste water companies, the more Bulgarian citizens pay. About 60% average water losses in Bulgaria. It turns out, Minister, that somewhere they reach 75% in Pernik, there are also more in other places, i.e. Bulgarian citizens, if they pay 20% as a real water supply price, 80% of their accounts go, I rudely say, for the payment of water companies. I will not comment here on the criminal concession of Sofia Water. I've talked about this a lot. The concessioner, for example, was committed at the beginning of the concession to limit losses to 32%, now there are about 50% losses here in Sofia. The big problem is, I say again, that water companies have an interest in leaking water into the sewers the more, the better for them. That's the paradox of this problem. Personally, I think this robbery should stop. Personally, I have introduced a law on behalf of non-Party candidates. Water losses that are included in people's accounts should not be higher than 25%. The law is submitted to the National Assembly and I sincerely hope that the National Assembly's leadership will move it to the committees and, if possible, to watch it next week so that it can be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u175	Mr. Christov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u176	This will actually limit people's accounts by at least 30, 40 or 50% in some places. Here, colleagues, something concrete. What is your opinion, Minister? What do you think should be done by the Ministry, again, to reduce the price we all pay these companies?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u177	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, at first, when they gave me your question, I thought I'd return it. I could bring it back formally that it was not within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water, because so-called losses are related to water losses in hydrotechnical systems and water supply facilities and they do not directly concern the Water Act and the Minister of Environment and Water. But then I said to myself that it would be cynical if I did, because we are responsible for the natural resources and if, say, about 1 billion. Cube. m. We provide the waterworks in complex and significant dams and if of these 1 billion. Cube. Only 400 million meters go to consumers, isn't that just terrifying? The discussion on waste mentioned the round economy, the green economy. But the circular economy also requires you not to use resources and waste it, because the more you take, the more you pollute. The important thing is to have economic use. In this regard, I have heard that you have introduced a law and it seems to me that you have not plagiarized it by the law since 2000, where it was originally given to the water service for the 10-year period to bring their losses to 25% and it was written that all losses above 25% are at the expense of the operator. This thing, however, the plumbing lobby, I don't know which years it canceled. There's no regulation left on this. But it's not just the waterfall that's going to be huge. The losses in Irrigation Systems are even greater because usually to transport a water from the dam to the irrigation fields requires a highway irrigation channel. If you remember, in the distant past, they were lined up, do you remember that with cement, waterproof and as much water as water goes from the dam to the irrigation fields, and now it's lost about 10 to 20 times water on them. Since these quantities are much more, this is also absolutely unacceptable. Otherwise, even though it is not my competence, but my conscience makes me mention to you that according to the statistics of the National Statistical Institute, no matter how much you do not accept it, from 2016 to 2019, regardless of the increase in water service prices, the water supply losses tend to increase. It is very interesting that the total 1 billion is included in the price of water. Cube. meters as a water collection charge to be paid in the PDAOS by consumers. VAT is also charged on this amount in the cost of water. This VAT and the difference in water prices and the so-called actual losses represent a vague financial machination in which, I can boldly say, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is involved. Because it is not possible that the Environment Operational Programme has already given about 4.5 billion for sewerage, water treatment plants, and has no real effect on loss reduction! For a reason this year, I, as Chairman of the Board of the PPOOS, changed the criteria under which it finances water supply sites, and they are very simple. He comes here, applies and says, "From 70% with this money you give us, I'm bringing it down to 20%. " Something like this has to be done. But unfortunately, that's a sad fact right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u180	It's a really sad fact, Mr. Secretary. But the saddest of all is that Bulgarian citizens overpay in their water bills huge amounts of water on the water. Even more saddened is that the water operators have an interest in the loss to be greater in order to receive more money. Here's the law. You asked me if I plagiarized it or not. [[shows him]] The law, I think, was tabled in 2006, when I was a MP here at this meeting. No, no, it's okay! [[Reply of Minister of Service Assen Lichev.]] I think that each one of us, colleagues who took a useful law, copied a useful law and introduced it, is doing all our constituents a favor. So I'm not offended by that. Here's the law, here's the motive! At present, the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act allows water service losses to be calculated at the cost of the water service. This happens entirely at the expense of consumers. In essence, the law does not lead to the conservation and sparing use of water resources, but stimulates their waste by water supply companies. The pricing mechanism allows the reported losses to be calculated as income for water supply companies. Therefore, these companies are interested in reporting losses rather than taking real action to reduce them. An eloquent example is the case of the Sofia water, where the losses are about 50%, and in many other places there are more. The current amendment of the law shall comply with art. 19th para. 2 of the Constitution, which requires the law to protect the interest of consumers. Water companies are natural monopolies and the consumer is placed in a completely dependent position against them. The proposed amendment ensures the real protection of consumers and will end the misappropriation of huge funds by water supply companies. Short and clear, colleagues! That's why I congratulate you, by the way, Mr. Minister, on the honesty, on what we just heard. But I turn to the leadership of the National Assembly: colleagues, this is a law that will save hundreds of millions of leva to our voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u181	Mr. Christov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u182	Move it as quickly as possible so that this Parliament can vote if we eventually go to early elections. Because, colleagues, it is good to leave something useful that this Parliament has done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u183	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? No. And we move on to the last question to Minister Lichev of the National Representative Zornitsa Stratieva regarding the protection of the species under art. 12 of Directive 92/43/EEC for natural habitats. Come in for the development of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lichev, before I raise my question, I would like to express my warm thanks to me and the civil society for the letter that you canceled on your predecessor Iskra Mihailova, which allowed huge construction on the territory of Sinemorets and Tsarevo Municipality, in particular the area of the Polyanite. This construction, as is known there, is happening without a General Development Plan, and with this letter through small detailed planning plans was allowed very aggressive construction. I would like to ask my question further. It connects with the locality of the village of Sinemorets on the territory of the municipality of Tsarevo. We know that this locality is located within the boundaries of Strandzha Nature Park the largest natural park in Bulgaria, and the territory of two protected areas of the European ecological network. There we also find through media publications that, as a result of the construction and the problems that are happening in this territory, there are different environmental problems. The site is ecological and habitats of plant, animal and mushroom species from Annex No 2a and Annex No 3 of the Biodiversity Act are found there, and I have personally met turtles that are found in this area. I would like to know how RIEW Burgas and the Ministry of Environment and Water have implemented the system for strict protection of the species under art. 12 of the Habitats Directive and Chapter 3 of the Biodiversity Act, after destruction is permitted, thanks to this letter, at their breeding sites and their hibernation sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u185	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stratieva, I will read you a dry short answer and for him I am sure it will not satisfy you. First of all, I would like to give a personal opinion on the orders for protected areas and the management plans for protected areas. Orders are dryer, you know them. There are restrictions that can be directly controlled, and violations are obvious. The management plans have an extended list of restrictions, however, almost lacking and no regulated controls are available. All over each management plan it says that the end of the year should be assessed the effectiveness of habitat conservation measures. I'll tell you the truth, from the 16 management plans or the 17 that he's confirmed, for just one I didn't see anywhere having an annual report on the effectiveness of the measures, ergo some kind of control. So maybe this should be fixed, mostly in the rules of procedure and the instructions that I owe. Now I'm reading you the dry answer that's gonna ruin your weekend. The territory subject to the question falls within the boundaries of two protected areas through the Biodiversity Act of the Natura 2000 Natura 2000 Network for the conservation of wild birds and the protected area............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The provisions of art. 6, para. 3 of the European Union Directive are transposed into national law into the provisions of art. Art. 31, Art. 32 of the Biodiversity Act and the adopted on the basis of art. 31a of the Law Ordinance on the terms and conditions for carrying out an assessment of the compatibility of plans, programmes, projects and investment proposals with the subject matter and objectives of conservation of protected areas. As you can see, the paragraph I read has nothing to do with asking. I'll hope later... In keeping strictly with the requirements of the Habitats Directive and in line with the guidelines for its implementation given by the European Commission, numerous measures have been taken to preserve the sites of With a view to the strict application of the procedures under art. 6, para. 3 of the Directive investment proposals are subject to compatibility assessment and a large part of them requires an EIA report on affected protected areas, which includes an assessment of the type and extent of negative impact of the investment proposal on natural habitats, habitat of species and on the species subject to the conservation of the protected zone concerned. In addition, numerous bans and restrictions are imposed both at the level of the protected zone and at the regional level at national level in order to further protect species and their habitats. And the last sentence is a specific answer to your question, according to which the bans and restrictions of activities in the orders for declaring protected areas are essentially administrative measures within the meaning of the provisions of the Biodiversity Act mentioned in the question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u187	Thank you, Minister Lichev. Here you are, Mrs. Stratieva, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u188	Thank you, Mr. Lichev, for your answer. From it, I understand that you are responding to me by the wrong member of the Habitats Directive. My question was related to art. Article 12, not Art. 6. Unfortunately, for a large part of the investment intentions, my observations show that the EIA reports that you quoted, on the one hand, are missing such reports, on the other hand, refer to data that are obsolete from the mapping made in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u189	Thank you. This ended the questions to Minister Lichev. Let's thank him for his long day with us. The issue of the National Representative Alexander Nikolov at Yanaki Stoilov was postponed at the request of the National Representative Alexander Nikolov. We move on to the questions of Minister Hristo Bosukov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. A question from the National Representative Maya Bozidarova Manolova and Galina Ivanova Tavalika-Georgieva about the equipment and preparation of the employees in the fight against forest fires. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u190	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Since the beginning of August there have been hundreds of large-scale forest fires in our country, including Plovdiv, Pazardzhik, Kyustendil, Blagoevgrad, Petrich and many others over 2200 fires in the last month. All of Bulgaria was at one point affected by the fiery element. We, from the Parliamentary Group, are standing up BG! We're coming!... we visited where the situation was the most severe. We met with people, employees in the village of Dolno village of Kyustendil, where I went, in Blagoevgrad, where she visited Mrs. Manolova, in the village of Yugovo. In Southwestern Bulgaria, the most difficult situation was precisely in the districts of Kyustendil and Blagoevgrad, where the teams of the Department of Fire and Emergency Safety worked 24 hours a day, with which we discussed the situation, problems and their solutions. Thanks to their joint efforts, the fires have been localized and controlled, which they continue to do now, but there is still much work to be done to deal with the consequences of the damage done. However, there are some consequences which unfortunately cannot be corrected, namely the lost lives of two forest workers in Sandanski municipality. This is the price they and their families had to pay because they were actively involved in the battle against fire. We offer them our sincere condolences! It was the hundreds of fires that spread and the deaths of the two forest workers that put particular emphasis on the preparation and equipment of the workers and volunteers involved in the fight against forest fires. We were alerted at the relevant meetings with the victims and employees that the equipment of the forest workers engaged directly in the fight against fires 24 hours a day, at the beginning of August, was only carried out with a shovel and a drill for fire-fighting and there was no elementary protection equipment for oxygen masks and fire-resistant clothing. Unfortunately, according to statistics, only two days ago the situation in our country was still serious.. more than 100 fires per day, so I think the issue is still up to date. In connection with this information, please reply: what is the equipment and protective equipment provided to workers and volunteers fighting forest fires; what trainings, training and regular training are they going through to prepare for the fight against fires; what measures have you taken to solve these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Minister Bozukov, come in. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, dear Mrs. Tvaleka, I take this opportunity to offer my condolences once again to those who have been killed and injured in the fire! Specifically in answer to your question. All territorial divisions of state-owned enterprises under the Forest Act have built and equipped fire depots in accordance with the requirements of Decree No 8 of 2012 on the conditions and arrangements for the protection of forest areas from fires, their total number being 470. Separately, in each of the 16 regional forest directorates, the total number of fire depots is 486. Each fire depot is equipped with spinal sprayers, motor saws, motor pumps, equipment with hoses and jets, water vessels, shovels, axes, picks, hoes, hoes, oars and more. A total of 339 specialized groups of employees and workers involved in fire-fighting in forest areas, including 2774 employees and workers, are divided into state forestry and hunting farms and regional forestry directorates. The directors of territorial divisions and regional forestry directorates shall ensure that employees and workers from specialized groups are provided with personal protective and protective clothing for fire-fighting activities in forest areas. For this purpose, 1682 personal protective equipment and protective clothing are provided, including: helmet, glasses, protective topwear and pants of hard-bodied natural materials, protective shoes and gloves. Actions have been taken to ensure the employees and employees of state enterprises and their territorial divisions involved in forest fire-fighting, protective clothing and personal protective equipment, seeking opportunities to secure specialized groups for action in fire-fighting with protective clothing and personal protective equipment to the full extent. The Gora Foundation.bg. has offered to donate 650 semi-face breathing masks for multiple use of a total of 16 thousand. £250. and 650 fire protection gloves for a total of 2 thousand. £665. For the three southern state-owned enterprises and their territorial units, respectively, 80 for the three northern state-owned enterprises and 50 for the structures of the Forest Executive Agency, respectively. The territorial divisions of the state-owned enterprises have the following fire prevention technique: 124 specialized forest fire fire extinguishing systems, as equipped, if necessary, to available high-pass vehicles; 42 combined loaders loaders; 8 bulldozers; 24 truck dumpers, 8 other specialized forest equipment "Diggers," tractors and others; one drone for sweeping forest areas and early fire alarms. The investments by state-owned forest enterprises, including the specialized forest fund, are only worth 2 million for the period 2018 to 2021. BGN, of which 1 million 700 thousand for the purchase of specialized cars for fire extinguishing and 300 thousand for equipment and the purchase of personal protective equipment. 17 automated cars for monitoring and detection of fires are also built in the country's forest areas and 13 such facilities are currently being built in Blagoevgrad, Burgas, Sliven and the town of Berkovitsa with funding under Measure 8.3: Prevent damage to forests from forest fires, natural disasters and disaster events of the Rural Development Programme in the period 2014-2020. Voluntary fire-fighting formations in the forest areas are organised by the respective municipalities and we have no information about their composition, equipment and equipment at their disposal. Trainings and practical performances of the Action Plan shall be carried out annually before the fire in the forests by representatives of the respective regional services. During the trainings, particular attention shall be paid to the ways and methods of extinguishing forest fires using specialized extinguishing systems. All these theoretical and practical classes are recorded in the operational plans to protect forest areas from fires. In view of the increased fire risk in the forest areas this year, representatives of the Regional Services Training sessions are carried out in parallel with periodic briefings, also the main topics are: handling the fire inventory, basic actions in the operation of the fire truck, loading, developing and turning hoses, handling the petrol motor pump, taking action in the event of a fire, ensuring personal safety. During the previous week by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, actions were taken to carry out further training for forest workers involved in forest fire-fighting actions. It is important to note that in the event of any forest fire, the authorities of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection shall take the lead of fire-fighting actions after arrival on the site of the fire, and all participants in fire-fighting, including forest workers, shall be obliged to carry out their orders, i.e. they shall carry out auxiliary action in the fight against fires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will you use the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u194	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Unfortunately, in August, 3803 fires were burning in Bulgaria, of which 2127 forest fires were reported until that day. With colleagues from the parliamentary group, stand up BG! We were at some of the critical points and we met with firefighters, employees of.Secretary protection and fire safety....................................................... with forest employees.................... and with volunteers.................................................................................................................................................................. I would like to say from this tribune to them a great thank you for the dedication and responsibility shown to both volunteers and forest officials and local authorities and, of course, to the firefighters who were able to fight the elements. I once again offer my condolences for the two victims from Petrich and Kresna precisely to forest workers. We have had problems before us precisely by forest workers who claim that in recent years they have actually been left to deal with fires without equipment, without fireproof protective clothing, without oxygen masks, without means of extinguishing fires, without proper training and thank you for taking the necessary action in recent weeks to change that. However, we, from the parliamentary group, will also propose legislative changes to the category of work of forest workers who fight fires and those who perform police functions, fighting poachers and illegal logging, having special status, having a special category of higher category of work, being equipped in the appropriate way to carry out these additional functions, and not leaving them with bare hands, without means, without preparing to fight both the criminals in the forest arrays and the forest elements. To that end, they should also be rewarded for risking their lives, putting their families at risk. We will make relevant legislative changes, propose between first and second reading changes in the state budget update so that you get more funds, including specifically for forest workers who are fighting fires. I hope we're done with the black series of August, but there must be support for the people on line one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u195	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u196	Dear Madam President, dear Mrs. Manolova, dear Mrs. Tvalica! Thank you for your intentions for legislative changes. They will be very useful for forest workers. Thank you on their behalf. I would just like to inform you that a total of 266 fires have been recorded in the country's forest areas since August 24th, and after mid-July their number has been increased sharply due to the permanent drought and unusually high extreme summer temperatures, giving the month among the hottest since the beginning of the water statistics. Forest fires have affected over 21,020 acres, with more than 3230 acres of them being burned by high fires. Compared to the same period of the previous year, the number of registered fires decreased by 25%, and compared to the most critical year, where there are 1400 fires on 370 thousand acres of forest areas, a five-fold reduction is reported, which is, of course, not for calming down. However, there is undeniable evidence that over 80% of all forest fires in Bulgaria in the last 30 years are the result of human activity, i.e. the burning of pitchers, pastures is the cause of 34% of the fires. An annual average of not more than 2.5% of forest fires have occurred naturally from lightning. Among the reasons for the occurrence in recent years, the rate of fires due to negligence is the highest. In this regard, my order of 5 August 2021 also introduced a ban on lawn mowing.. machinery cleaning, including the cleaning of shrubs until 20 August 2021, for all farmers while maintaining permanent grassland and arable land. A decision is to be made to improve our country's capacity to extinguish forest fires from the air. The establishment of a specialised aviation unit to support the activities of saving and extinguishing complex fires in forest areas is of priority with a view to ensuring the security of citizens and their properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to Maya Manolova's next question regarding the award of the disinfection of vehicles at the border with Turkey and the control of the quality of fruit and vegetables at the Border Control Point. This appears to be the last question for today, as the time of the meeting will run out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u198	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the civil platform, we received numerous signals from citizens and from transport companies for the fact that activities which are the commitment of the Bulgarian state are transferred to private companies in the border territory.. Border control posts with Turkey.. Captain Andreevo.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In practice, the State has abdicated from its functions both with regard to disinfection of entry vehicles and with regard to phytosanitary controls. Really, together with the team of the Straighten up БГ! we were on the spot and we made sure that the so-called golden göl is held by a private company that the fees that are collected are BGN 20 each. on TIR, five levs per car. A simple account, given the traffic during the year, shows that the traffic flows of around 1400 TIR cars and thousands of cars generate revenue from the private company of 10 million. lv. Annually. At the beginning of June, the National Revenue Agency checked the company that runs the gold göl and 32 million were established. lv. cash deposits. 32 million. lv. cash money, which according to the documentation of the private company in question is stored in the company! Ten acts were drawn. A tax audit was made. We are not informed and ask the Minister of Finance what the follow-up by the National Revenue Agency is. With regard to the laboratory for control of the quality of fruits and vegetables entering Bulgaria from third countries, it turns out that these are about 450 500 trucks per day. According to Directive 10% of them should be checked, but are checked much more, the price is 350 BGN. excluding VAT for laboratory testing. Imagine that plus 500 leva. for unloading as an employee of the laboratory itself announced, or from this activity the company generates about 15 to 20 million. lv. revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u199	Mrs. Manolova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u200	My question to you is: Dear Minister, do you think that the award of private companies to disinfection of motor vehicles entering Bulgaria is in line with the public interest? Should quality control, plant health control for imported fruit and vegetables also be an activity that is assigned to private companies? Is this not the way the Bulgarian state in the face and the Ministry of Agriculture is deprived of serious revenue? In view of the transfer of entire territories from the Border Crossing Point, is it also a risk to national security?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, it is the responsibility of the Republic of Bulgaria as a member state and external border of the European Union to carry out preventive disinfection of vehicles entering the country. The implementation of preventive disinfection and the biosecurity measure is to prevent the cross-border transmission of infectious diseases to animals and humans and is extremely important for both our country and the European Union. In 2013, a contractor company was selected to carry out preventive disinfection of the Border Control and Verification Post..Captain Andreevo. By publishing an advert for collecting offers for carrying out the activity. Of the four offers received was chosen the company that offered the best investment offers. The selected contractor has concluded a 5-year contract by 2018, which is subsequently extended by an annex until 12 March 2023, to award preventive disinfection to vehicles entering the country. Under the contract concluded, the contractor performs the activity at its own expense by providing staff, material and technical facilities and approved disinfectants. At its own expense, it has built the video surveillance system of the vehicles entering the country, to which they have access to the BABH authorities for control. State fees under the Tariff for Fees adopted by Decree No 375 of the Council of Ministers of 2011. The state fees collected shall be paid to the state budget. Regarding the question of the State's lost benefits, I would like to inform you that, by the contract concluded, the State actually collects only revenue without spending budget resources. For the period from 13 March 2013 to 30 April 2021, the State budget has officially received 28 million. EUR and around 18 million. BGN, without spending budget resources. This is at least the official information on the reported funds. Regarding the executed acts of the NRA contractor, I note to you that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and BABBH are not party to the verification. There was no information from the NRA about the findings. Disinfecting vehicles entering the country should be carried out subject to animal health requirements. Another point is that there are some violations for which the company has been given prescriptions and which it needs to comply with, and this will be verified. A scheme has been established by the Executive Director of BABBH, which indicates how the activities and requirements of the disinfection preparations used are carried out. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall monitor compliance with this scheme when the disinfection is carried out under art. 7, para. 1, t. 10 of the Animal Health Act. In the structure of BABBH and at present there is no unit with a replacement obligation to carry out disinfection. Not including a staff state to carry out one. Also, the BABH budget this year does not provide funds for disinfection. At my request, estimates have been made on the staff and financial resources needed for the possible taking over of the activities of BABM, which amount to about 2 million. 649 thousand. BGN 804. An annual size, and an increase in staff of about 54 people of BAHB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u203	Mr. Minister, the weather. You'll be able to finish something within the backrest. Mrs. Manolova, would you like to use a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u204	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, am I correct in your opinion that the state is making savings by providing the phytosanitary control and disinfection of road vehicles entering Bulgaria to a private company? Even the official numbers show that only in the first year the company declared a profit of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, and for five years it is about the gold göl, the profit is 27 million. lv. Now you can consider, given that BGN 850. is the fee for laboratory and landing of TIR from which the relevant samples will be taken, in fact only the quantity to be checked shall be unloaded. In the end, it is about revenues within about 20 million. lv. Annually, given that the same company also has a place for animal rest, and there are collected 600 euros from an animal truck. It's about huge profits. In fact, the very fact that the NRA established 32 million. lv. Cash in this company, and the fact that part of the cash registers are not connected to the NRA at all, shows what kind of cash flow we're talking about. Here, the problem is not only what the state is losing. I just note that we were on the ground and the buildings for the laboratory are owned by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The same has enough laboratories to be able to carry out this activity. I will not recall that data about the first choice of a private company that happened, notice, on the last day of Boyko Borisov's first cabinet, there is no public information on the Agency's website. I remind you that the last contract was signed by Mrs. Desislava Taneva three years ago with the private company in question. We are also talking about something else here about our national security. It is about the external border of the European Union, it is about the transfer of Bulgarian territories to private companies that dispose of them by fulfilling public functions suppliing the state's commitments, adding all sorts of fees. I ask: where is this fee regulated of 500 BGN. for unloading the fruit box to be checked? I will not comment on the fact that the state has not made any efforts to create a public parking lot so that there are normal conditions for carriers and TIR drivers. There is indeed an abdication of the Bulgarian state from its functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u205	Mrs. Manolova, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u206	Resign parts of checkpoints, from Bulgaria's border to private entities. It's also a threat to national security. I really hope you'll reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u207	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, my views on this matter are absolutely consistent with yours. The point is that I am providing you with official information, and if we start talking about this in particular on this issue, it will take us a long time, so I have acted this way. I just want to let you know that the laboratory, which is located at the Border Control checkpoint, has been designated as an official laboratory in accordance with the requirements of the Food and European Law. The same was within the scope of an official audit by the European Commission. State control shall be carried out on the activity of the laboratory through regular internal audits by the National Reference Laboratory. At present, there is no state laboratory meeting the requirements which is accredited and with the capacity to perform such routine pesticide tests for the purpose of official controls. There is only the Central Laboratory for Chemical Tests, Control and Analysis of Pesticide Residue, which is located in Sofia. However, it has been designated as the National Reference Laboratory under a European Union Regulation, as required by the Regulation, audited and coordinated the activities of official laboratories carrying out tests and confirming the results. However, it is quite distant from the point and takes a very long period until the samples come here, do the research and return. The State interest, as well as that of the European Union in terms of food safety, is ensured by carrying out rapid and effective control of food imported from third countries, which is essential for consumers' health. There is no delegation of activities in this case. The legislation of the European Union - Regulation (EU) 2017/625 - requires routine official controls to be carried out by accredited laboratories. However, these laboratories are not required to be state-owned and the competent authorities, according to the Regulation, need to control their activities through the National Reference Laboratory. In more than 95% of Member States, routine requirements are carried out by private official laboratories and control of their activities is carried out by the National Reference Laboratory. The State may carry out such research itself after the construction and accreditation of a state laboratory meeting the European requirements with the necessary equipment and personnel and located in an appropriate place so that there is no delay in importing food and preventing compromising their quality.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-27.u209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes today's session due to running out of time. Next meeting on Wednesday 1 September 2021, at 9.00 [[PHONE RINGING]]
