ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Let's start with point one for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND HEALTH CASE 2021 Importer of the Council of Ministers. I don't see anyone from the importer. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Excuse me? [[Noise and lines.]] That is precisely what I am saying, that I do not see anyone from the Council of Ministers, I do not see a representative, I see no member of the Council of Ministers to present the proposed bill. [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]] Please, the President of the leading Commission for a Report. Should we wait for the members of the Council of Ministers, what do you want, Mr. Karimansky? I'm asking for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a procedure to invite the CEO of the National Health Insurance Fund to Professor Salchev, who is outside. Please be invited. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] No, we'll present the budget, but be invited inside.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u3	Mr. Karimanski, however, according to the Rules of Procedure, when the Bill was tabled by the Council of Ministers, is represented by a member of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u4	There's the minister here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u5	Yes, thank you, come in. You want permission from the director of the National Health Insurance Fund? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Please vote on the admission of the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund. Vote 172 MPs: for 171, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the director of the National Health Insurance Fund. I ask for the presentation of the report of the leading Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 46-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. At its meeting held on 24 August 2021, the Health Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 46-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Health, Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), Professor Dr. Petko Salchev, representatives of the Ministry of Health, word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. The draft and the reasons for the draft were presented by the Governor of NHIF Professor Petko Salchev, who introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters laid down in the amendments and supplements of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. He clarified that there are planned receipts of 134 500 000 BGN. from health insurance revenues including health insurance contributions BGN 105 000 000 and transfers to the insurance company.. 29 500 000 BGN. The expenditure is proposed to be further distributed 10 000 000 BGN. For the maintenance of administrative activities, the financing of NHIF concluded contracts for the provision of services for the maintenance of electronic security systems at the NHIF sites, for complex services and systematic expert assistance for the information and technical infrastructure of the NHIF, for the services necessary for the operation of the NHIF and out-of-warranty maintenance and licences for the EESSI system, as well as for out-of-warrantial maintenance and licences for the security of the information system, will be ensured. The additional funds under the indicator "Sustainability of administrative activities" include the means for the production and delivery of requested quantities of European health insurance cards. He added that it will also ensure the payment by the end of 2021 of the costs of enforcement claims lodged in the NHIF, as well as interest on the principals of executive sheets received in the amount of 3,873 700 thousand. lv. I'm asking you here instead of the number 3,873,700 thousand. lv. read the number 3 million. 873 thousand. 700 BGN, mainly from cases related to the payment of the activity for the period 2015 - 2018 and under which no agreements were concluded according to the requirements of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. It is proposed that in the part of "Health insurance costs" a new order of BGN 120 465 000 should be created, the funds will be allocated to primary outpatient medical care, specialized outpatient medical care, including complex dispansive (ambulatory) surveillance, dental assistance, medical diagnostic activity, medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes for home treatment in the country, for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy and medicinal products for life-threatening bleeding and emergency surgery in patients with congenital coagulopathy included in the package of health care activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, and applied in the conditions of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided, for medical devices applied in hospital care, health insurance payments for hospital care and for the provision of vaccines against the CIVID-19 for health insurance. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill suggest that the additional funds should be allocated by decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, thus allowing for the timely decision-making to ensure the financial provision of the resulting needs for funds in the relevant areas of expenditure for health insurance payments during an exceptional epidemiological situation. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is three percent of the collected income from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and is 4 035 000 BGN. The proposed bill provides funds of BGN 2,500 000. to carry out the health care activities carried out in the home by nurses, midwives or medical assistants. An extension of the time limit for the payment of the aids, fittings, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons under the current order until 31 December 2021 shall also be provided and the amounts of their value set out on 31 December 2019. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union (BSA) was presented by Dr. Nikolay Brunzalov, who expressed principle support for the proposed amendments and additions, but objected to the envisaged possibility for additional funds under the NHIF budget to be allocated and paid by decision of the Supervisory Board. He stressed that the allocation of additional financial resources should have clarity, transparency and predictability. According to the word organisation, it is the legislator who should determine the specific parameters of the individual health insurance payments under the NHIF budget. Dr. Brunzalov clarified that the BLS strongly opposes the provision of funds for the financing of the health care activity, as there is currently no legal basis for carrying out, reporting and payment of this activity in 2021. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union, Dr. Nikolay Sharkov, also objected to the sole allocation of funds by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF and stressed that in this process the opinion of the word organizations of doctors and dentists should also be taken into account. He expressed hope that the National Assembly would take into account the opinion of the word organization represented by him in the second vote of the Bill. Prof. Asena Serbenova acquainted the MPs with the opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union (BFS), which states that there is uneven treatment in the current legislation of Master Pharmacists who work in hospital care facilities. She called for a second vote on the Bill to establish a legal basis for these Master Pharmacists to also receive an additional monthly remuneration as they are directly engaged in activities related to COVID-19. The opinion of the Bulgarian Association of Dentists expresses support for the regulatory changes under consideration, asking to discuss the possibility that the medical service "total dental prosthesis" should be financed by the NHIF budget. The President of the Bulgarian Association for the Protection of Patients Mr. Plamen Tausanov said he generally supports the allocation of additional funds under the NHIF budget. He clarified that the funds for health insurance payments should be detailed in the body of the Law, as it is in this way that the will of the legislator will be clearly expressed. The Bulgarian Hospital Association supports the proposed bill, proposing to anticipate an increase in the prices of clinical pathways for the treatment of COVID-19. Representatives of the Association of Research Pharmaceuticals in Bulgaria and of the Bulgarian Genetic Pharmaceutical Association indicated that some of the additional funds should be provided for an increase in funds for 2021 for health insurance payments for medicinal products, which would limit the increasing burden of compensation and discounts paid by pharmaceutical companies to the NHIF, as this is a major challenge for the sustainable functioning of the system of payment of medicines by the NHIF. They stressed that there is an alarming trend for an excessive increase in the amount of funds for recovery, which could negatively affect patients due to a reduction of economic incentives for delivery of medicines on the Bulgarian market. There is a risk in the absence of an update of budgetary expenditure on medicinal products for 2021 from reaching a critical level at which pharmaceutical companies will not be able to fulfil their commitments to supply certain medicinal products whose value is fully or partly paid by the NHIF, as the effective price for delivery of certain medicinal products after payment of compensation and discounts is negative, resulting in an economic inability to provide medicinal products without loss. It was noted that the security of the drug supply in Bulgaria largely depends on ensuring legal certainty and predictability, which enables pharmaceutical companies to plan their activities in the country and fulfil their obligations to meet the health needs of Bulgarian citizens. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised specific questions regarding the specific amount of supplementary funds for individual health insurance payments, the outpatient treatment procedure for CIVID-19 under the conditions of outpatient medical care, the health care activities carried out at home by nurses, midwives or medical assistants and the possibility of improving the balance between outpatient and hospital care. It was stressed that between the first and second votes of the Bill, the main problems should be discussed and the opportunities for their resolution for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens and those involved in the healthcare system should be sought. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 46-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! I think today we're looking at three important bills that concern the coming months and maybe a year. From this point of view, I propose that the meeting be delivered directly on the Bulgarian national television channel 1 and the Bulgarian national radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u9	Thank you. I request a voting regime for the proposal so made. Vote 160 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please direct broadcast on BNT and BNR. Mr. Karimanski, please submit the report to the Committee on Budget and Finance. [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Karimanski.]] Here you are, Mrs. Pesheva, if Mr. Karimansky refuses to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u10	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 46-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. At a meeting held on 24 August 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed that bill. The meeting was attended by Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, Minister of Health, Violeta Lorere, Deputy Minister of Finance; Professor Dr. Petko Salchev, Governor of NHIF; representatives of the word and patient organizations. The bill was presented by Dr. Stoycho Katsarov. The draft amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 provides for revenue of 134 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. from health insurance income, including health insurance contributions 105 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Five hundred thousand. lv. The bill proposes that the current costs should be increased by 130 million. 465 thousand. BGN, and they are redistributed as follows: 1. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. lv. to support administrative activities. Those funds should cover up to the end of 2021 financial commitments which cannot be implemented under the NHIF's concluded contracts for the provision of support services for electronic security systems at the NHIF sites, for services necessary for the operation of the NHIF and out-of-warranty maintenance and licences for the EESSI system, as well as for non-warranty maintenance and licenses for the Security of Information System. The additional funds under this indicator include the means for the production and delivery of the amounts of European health insurance cards applied for, as well as the means to ensure the payment of the costs of legal cases, as well as the interest on the principals of the executive sheets received, amounting to 3 million. 873,7 thousand. lv. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 465 thousand. lv. in the new order 1.1.3.9., under the conditions of the declared epidemiological situation, they shall be distributed and paid by decision of the NHIF Supervisory Board on the following activities: primary extra-hospital aid; specialized extra-hospital medical care, including for complex dispensary (ampulator) surveillance; dental assistance; medical diagnostic activity; medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the country, for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy and medicinal products for life-threatening bleeding and emergency and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy included in the package of health care activities guaranteed by the NHIF budget, and applied in the context of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided; medical devices applied in hospital care; health insurance payments for hospital care; placing vaccines against the CIVID-19 for health insured persons. In view of the unpredictable and possible reversals in the course of the disease of the fourth wave of the epidemic, as well as its impact on the activities carried out, the various payments to performers in outpatient medical and dental aid, respectively, are not allocated and pledged to the types of health insurance payments, but are combined in a separate line: Health insurance payments under line 1.1.3.1, 1.1.3.2, 1.1.3.3, 1.1.3.4, 1.1.3.5, 1.1.3.6, 1.3.3.7 under the conditions of the declared epidemic situation of 120 million. 465 thousand. lv. Those funds plan for the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19 for health-insured persons up to 14 million. lv. This will ensure the use of the funds only to meet the additional costs of the activities for the treatment of COVID-19 and the amounts under the "Metodics for determining the amounts paid by the NHIF to medical aid contractors, dental aid and medical diagnostic work for work under adverse conditions on the occasion of the declared epidemic situation', as well as the new activities related to COVID-19. In accordance with art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Health Insurance Act on the basis of the received income is set aside 3%. 035,000. lv. For the application of the order of § 8, para. 1 and 2 of the funds in row 1.3. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. For health insurance payments for health care, they set out 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. to carry out the health care activities carried out at home by nurses, midwives or medical assistants. The proposed amendments to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 achieve a balanced budgetary balance. The representatives of the word and union organizations expressed principle support for the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:................... 17 MPs, no.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act for 2021, No 46-102-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u11	Thank you. Mr. Katsarov, you have the floor for the opinion of the importer within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not repeat the data that has already been read in the reports of the two committees on Budget and Finance and Health. I had the opportunity to participate in the meetings of both committees. The discussions that took place were very thorough. There was no general objection to the adoption of the bill. There have been some disputes in the Health Commission as to whether the funds, as proposed, should remain general... and in the right of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF to distribute them in relation to the dynamically changing situation in the coming fourth wave, or the National Assembly should distribute them by feathers. It is right for you, as MPs, to decide what to do about this matter, but it does not concern the discussion of the first vote and the adoption of the bill in principle. This is a debate which will probably take place when the National Assembly examines the Second Voting Bill. I would like to add something like further clarity in terms of the planned costs in the Bill. Although they are referred to as "Administrative costs', as this is the nomenclature used to determine them, these nearly four million, which must be paid to the medical institutions in their cases against the NHIF for unpaid excess activity, in fact, they are essentially deferred sickness insurance payments. These are payments which the NHIF has not paid in 2015 for an activity carried out by hospital care institutions in the treatment of Bulgarian citizens, which treatment was above the limits set by the NHIF at the time. Although we call them "Administrative expenses', these are essentially health insurance payments postponed over the years, which are also important to be paid, because these funds will take place in medical institutions. With this money, if the National Assembly accepts this update, we will actually support medical institutions, doctors, nurses, dentists, dentists, pharmacists, we will give the NHIF an opportunity to purchase additional medicines. From this point of view and from the perspective of the emerging pandemic wave, it is important not only the adoption of the bill, it is also important that it is adopted as soon as possible to give security and calmness to the system in planning and implementing measures to counter the fourth pandemic wave that is taking place. In this regard, I call on you to be more efficient in considering and adopting this bill and, as soon as possible, to do so by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. I'm opening the debate on the bill. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! We accept the amendment and the Appendix to the NHIF Budget Act by making the following additions: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: For the maintenance of administrative activities, a detailed breakdown of the activities listed should be given, not only the interest and payments of 3 million. 873 thousand. £700. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2, row 1, t. 1, t. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development 465 thousand. lv. Paragraph 1 supposed and outpatient assistance. It is not clear what the intended amount is. This should also take into account the means for the outpatient treatment of a species of infection by general practitioners, because so far, for unclear reasons, this package is not valuable and we are risking, in case of any valuation of this package, no funds for its payment. The problem is that for two months we have been talking about this package, but so far we have no valuation. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 - Specialized outpatient care, including dispensary surveillance. Here, too, we should include additional ambulatory treatment for a species of patients from specialists in hospital care. Because again, we risk not being able to make payments under this paragraph. If provided for in hospital care in the outpatient treatment package payment and medication, medicinal products should be paid for at the next point. We believe that the envisaged reserve of 20 million. lv. is fully sufficient to be able to value individual points and individual costs. The envisaged 2,5 million. lv. implementing health care activities carried out in the home by nurses, midwives and medical assistants is a good start and we strongly support this, even more the staff crisis in this sector is deepening. We note that bureaucratic procedures and the opportunities for applying by performers of such activities should be simplified, because at the moment the conditions are such that this amount will hardly be spent. Here we want to make an addition. The amendment and the Supplement to the Budget Act of the NHIF Master Pharmacists working in the medical institutions are again not included in the scope of the persons listed in the provisions of art. 5, para. 1, t. 1.3 which are entitled to additional remuneration at different rates. There is a paradox: assistant pharmacists from hospital pharmacies, who are specialists and in health care, are entitled within the meaning of art. 5 and receive additional remuneration of 360 BGN, and their managers do not. Thus existing, the text contradicts art. 14 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, Article 1 and Protocol No 12, a number of norms and labour law are violated, including Convention No 11 on discrimination in labour and occupation. A number of other acts have been violated that risk a possible introduction by the Professional Association of Pharmacists to lead to the loss and payment of much more money. Master Pharmacists are medical specialists and according to the rules in the Health Act are equal as qualification and rules for regulating the profession as listed in art. 5, para. 1. There is a gap in the Law excluding part of the medical staff from the scope, according to the Pharmacy Union between 400 and 450 people for the country. In order to overcome, it is necessary to supplement the text in art. 5, para. 1, by creating a new t. 4 which will be grounds for payment of the wage or in art. 5, para. 1, t. 1 after the word "doctors" was added "Master-pharmacies." The necessary amount is expected by the end of the year 1 million. BGN to be taken from the estimated 120 million. 465 thousand. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u16	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the National Health Insurance Fund! It is notably known that the first reading discusses the philosophy of the Bill, even when it comes to budget update and when it comes to more funds for health insurance payments. The situation at the moment suggests that they will be intended to strengthen the health insurance system to address the challenges of the CoVID-19 pandemic. Analyzing proposals at first reading Draft Budget update bill of the National Health Insurance Fund looking for the logic of the proposed revenues and costs. 134 million were proposed. Five hundred thousand. lv. additional funds in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is planned to be of 105 million more health insurance contributions and 29 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. health insurance transfers, which are explained in the reasoning by the possible adoption of an increase in pensions in the state social security budget from 1 October. Such logic is indeed relatively controversial and problematic because it is yet to be considered as a second point at first reading the Bill on the update of the state social security budget. All parliamentary groups tend in their own way to interpret the need to update pensions and I do not believe anyone here to be able to predict what the final result will be, i.e. what the income will ultimately be from transfers to health insurance. Because pensioners are a contingent that provides the state and the contributions for them are paid by means of a transfer from the state budget. So we're not sure that these estimated 29 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. are correct and will indeed be so at the final stage of the adoption of the budget by the National Assembly, which in this case cannot be just a rubber stamp of the proposed bill by the caretaker government, but should express the will of the MPs who, in turn, express the will of their constituents. From the point of view of debunking a commonly used mantra, I think it is very useful because many times the thesis is used that the state does not provide the contingents that it is subject to providing on the actual amount of pensions or employees' salaries. You see, that's not true. The missionaries are provided according to the size of their pensions, i.e. in this case the state is a correct payer. This is the only benefit of the reasons for this bill under consideration. From the point of view of health insurance revenues, the estimated 105 million in excess is in no way motivated. In order to be clear whether the health insurance system is really stable and how the budget implementation of the Casa is going, we requested a report on the first six months. It does show that the NRA is planning to raise 91 million more by the end of the year than health insurance contributions and possibly, if there is additional revenue, this value can be obtained. However, there is no need to update the budget because there is a legal possibility in the texts of the NHIF Budget Act that the Supervisory Board can allocate these funds at its discretion depending on what are the performances on the individual items, but only for health insurance payments. The only thing that cannot be allocated above the collected contributions is for administrative costs, and here we see that the aim is really to give some 10 million more for administrative costs, which, I admit, were in no way well motivated, because the additional payments for over-limiting agreements can occur by decision of the Supervisory Board through recalculations and savings of parameters concerning hospital medical care. In terms of costs, it really seems that it is a legal and technical bad decision in a row to record this 120 million. 465 thousand. BGN, to rule that they can only be allocated to primary outpatient medical care, specialized outpatient medical care, dental care, medical diagnostic activities, medicinal products, medical devices and hospital care. Because, in fact, in current legislation, I have already stressed that this legal opportunity of the Supervisory Board has been given and, in this sense, the update seems pointless. From the point of view of the fact that I think here again, because I have seen that there is a consolidated majority for the adoption of this budget, it will be necessary for the people's representation to really commit to allocate these funds by parameters and paragraphs, because then there is an opportunity for savings in individual feathers, the redistribution to be carried out by the Supervisory Board, but only with the participation of the word organizations: the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union, and from the point of view of the current health situation, I think that this is far more correct. Most unexpectedly, in the Transitional and Final Regulations, there are some means of vaccines which are excluded, removed from precisely those 120 million. 465 thousand. BGN, for the payment of vaccines for COVID-19, provided that there is no such possibility in the upper row. In essence, this proposal seems controversial and absolutely incorrect. So far, the funds for the introduction of a vaccine against COVID-19, which is recommended, came from the state budget through a transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Health. The implementation of the budget for the first 6 months has shown that up to now 6 million have been paid. Seven hundred and fifteen thousand. lv. for placing 671 thousand. 563 vaccines. That's for the first six months. Now all of a sudden, the means to administer vaccines are required to be from health insurance contributions. My questions are: why will the funds for health insurance contributions be used and in what legal order for recommended vaccines? In Bulgaria there are also other recommended vaccines. These are rotavirus vaccines against cervical cancer and influenza vaccines. They are paid by the state budget because they are not included in the mandatory immunization calendar but are recommended vaccines. Only compulsory vaccines are paid by health insurance revenues. This gives you a different order to pay for the vaccines, which I consider incorrect. It is also incorrect from the point of view that there is no answer to the question of how it will be paid for to regional health inspections which also give vaccines. They are also paid 10 BGN. for each vaccine in place, and here it is envisaged that these funds should only be given to the medical institutions that have a contract with the Health Insurance Fund. Within the meaning of the RZI Act neither are medical institutions nor have a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund. This clearly needs to be revised and corrected. For me and the amount planned for these vaccines is too ambitious in terms of the extremely modest achievements of the caretaker government in relation to the vaccination process. The transitional and final provisions also provide for a commitment to finance healthcare establishments of 2 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, which has no correspondence with the new row 1.3.8 to 20 million introduced in § 1. lv. the possibility of allocating the funds for unforeseen and urgent expenditure from the budget by the Cashier's Supervisory Board. I would like to stress that this is not about funds for nurses, midwifes or medical assistants. It is about financing a new type of medical facility, which we have created with a change in the Law on Medical Institutions, which will carry out health care in the homes. Neither how many such hospitals have been registered so far has been answered, and is there a methodology established for assessing the activities carried out by these hospitals and, accordingly, for paying them, no legal framework on this matter? In this sense, the allocation of these funds is pointless, even more so in the current text of the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is given the opportunity in § 8, para. 2 The NHIF Supervisory Board shall allocate funds for health insurance payments to healthcare up to 20 million. lv. Let us really refine this text carefully, because otherwise the legal technique seems absolutely incorrect. From the point of view of changing the texts concerning the possibility of the National Health Insurance Fund to pay medical devices, gadgets and aids for people with disabilities, it is also not clear the change of § 12 and I raised the question whether there are any different intentions in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to give up the intention to provide these funds through the National Health Insurance Fund, because the change in these paragraphs here in the update that we see speaks precisely in this direction. I hope, here, at least in plenary, that we get an answer to this question, because otherwise, indeed, what has been proposed in this way seems illogical again. From the perspective of the Report on the implementation of the Cashier's budget, which I have already mentioned that we have requested information from the National Health Insurance Fund, it is evident that at the moment the implementation of the individual feathers is relatively stable and there is an excess in very few directions. There is a minor excess on medicinal products that are mainly used for the treatment of cancer and dental aid. However, the cost of treating children abroad is very significant. Currently the budget implementation is 91.8% and this is in the first six months of the year, that is, there is a significant deficit. In no way will the proposed budget update answer the question whether there will be enough funds for the treatment of children with diseases that cannot be given medical assistance in Bulgaria, and also children with oncohematological diseases. This is an extremely sensitive and important topic. I hope that this question will also be answered, because otherwise I expect a really serious public response. What is interesting is that there is also overcosting in terms of providing funds for intensive treatment of health-insured persons, which, in the context of the CIVID-19 pandemic, again requires a response from the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers, because we cannot leave without financing this activity, which in the real sense is lifesaving. I would like to emphasise once again that the health insurance contributions that are intended to be collected in excess this year are also possible under the current law to be allocated by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. The only thing for which additional funds cannot be allocated is for administrative costs. In a raging pandemic, I think it is immoral to increase the costs of administrative activities, and those activities that guarantee the life and health of Bulgarian citizens should be strengthened. The proposed update is legally-technically and financially unavailable in my opinion, and in terms of the current epidemic situation, it is useless. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS will therefore not support the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u17	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u18	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear colleague Daritkova, because you shared in the Chamber that during the review you made to the preliminary report of the National Health Insurance Fund for the first six months, you found that there is a serious spending on the treatment of children outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and Minister Katsarov for two months is a minister of service, would you answer: how many children have been sent, with what diseases you have done by analyzing all of this, and what is the state of what you call the strategic direction for the oncohematological treatment of children in relation to transplant treatment, as the main part of the funds for these children in the last year of your management are directed to sending children abroad, and not to the realization of transplantation of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria?! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. For a second line? I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u20	Dear colleague Mihailov, you are asking me a question which is within the competence of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. I am still a Member of the Health Commission. I quite correctly requested a report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the first six months and quite rightly shared it with all MPs from the Health Commission so that we could see the global parameters of spending the funds. If you want a detailed examination of each clinical case, as a representative of the National Health Insurance Fund, you can request information from the National Health Insurance Fund. I'm sure they'll give it to you in full, so we can analyze it later, if you decide, and we can draw conclusions about what the level of onco-hematological assistance is for children and the state of the child health system at all. From the point of view of the first reading of the Budget update Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, I believe that at this stage your comment and question do not have any particular contribution to the discussion and do not object in any way to all the arguments that I have made and which I believe really need with a huge amount of skepticism to support this bill and the other political forces. Once again, we cannot support such a draft budget update.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u21	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u22	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister Katsarov, honourable colleagues! Many things are notoriously known, but few of them are actually realized in the Chamber of the National Assembly, unfortunately. That's what happened before. I will really try to appeal to you on the budget philosophy of not throwing figures at you from the National Health Insurance Fund Father in the last six months, but to talk about how you are providing revenue that has not yet been provided at the first reading of the DVO budget. One thing is clear to the entire House.. with one exception of 65 people that an update of the budget in the............................................................................................. The question is: how, Minister Katsarov? Here our parliamentary group has its concept, has its remarks, has been positive about the need to update the budget. Now we will try within the minutes provided by the management of the National Assembly to argue. The first thing that is really important is: when a philosophy is formed, whether on a budget, whether on its update, and therefore we turned to you with this question, but, unfortunately, in the answer we did not get what pleases us, to have a real idea of the status that requires this update. You have stated several times that the coming, not to say which wave the fourth, requires mostly this update. I asked you 15 days ago in one of the debates in Parliament, in which you actively participated, and this very rarely happened years ago, to present us with an analysis of the specific epidemiological situation in the country, which has been done in all the countries of the European Union. All night last night, I've been busy looking at the analysis of individual countries and the German health authorities no longer pay attention to the number of infected people in Germany, which ruins every day the souls of our TV viewers and listeners, but are interested in the number of sick people in hospitals, which in our country does not happen and this continues to plague the entire nation. However, this analysis, Dr. Katsarov, has so far not been provided by the Ministry of Health. We need it now, immediately, so that we can between first and second reading actually try to be useful to you. You are the expert side, you are one Ministry of the Pyramid, with multiple departments, with multiple experts inside, and we are MPs with the right dose, of course, expertise in the individual committees, and if you provide us with this analysis and we do not rely on the analysis of a private laboratory, then we will really be most useful to you with these figures. [[Heckling]] And here I would like to say that you yourself say in an interview of the last 24 hours that these funds that you foresee in the amount of the budget correction of the National Health Insurance Fund may not even reach the end of the year, but when we get this analysis, we will be able to be fully useful to the Ministry of Health. However, the second issue, which is of serious importance and which I put not for the first time in front of the honourable Chamber of the National Health Insurance Fund, is that in this budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and in the adjustment of the national budget, which we will be looking at a few hours later, there is nothing, literally nothing in the direction of children's health care, such as the discussions that are currently going on in society, Minister Katsarov, and yesterday's interview of your colleague in one of the most popular national television shows, as well as interviews of individual people in this room, give no answer to this: how will the school year start? It starts in 20 days. Any appointments cannot be justified that everything is still being judged, in front of any of the Bulgarian parents and students who cannot vote, they are underage, but they are directly concerned with the attitude of the two ministries. I would like to draw your attention to the philosophy of this budget that here, indeed, the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund should address the problems of children's health care seriously, because there... I have now been given data that in the spring of this year only for a student were spent... by the budgets of schools and not the Ministry of Health and not the National Health Insurance Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... to a student. Imagine how much this is for the state right now? About 25 million. lv. for protective equipment, for disinfectants. No one has restored these funds to schools, and now we are again coming to the school year, and this philosophy, this construction in these budgets that you present to us, has not been available so far. The most important thing for our nation are our children, and that is why we ask you as a parliamentary group to address your experts and to present them, if not we will present to you our expert opinion between first and second reading, what will the National Health Insurance Fund for the treatment of children, as they are done here in my opinion, specifically as a professional, insinuations. Yesterday, one of your employees said she had newborn children with a horse already. This is a very serious talk on national media that creates a public mood and there are many things... [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] I'm not going to argue with people in this room, am I right, but when there's talk about something, it has to be known what its significance is, what its danger to children and adolescents is and then introduce itself to the nation. That is, I think that as Minister you will take into account this whole issue, which is related to both schools and kindergartens and nurseries in the budget philosophy, and we will try to help you in this regard as well. Next, I'm looking at the motives here, this morning I took the liberty of taking them out, and actually by going into detail here because we're talking about philosophy, I don't want to go into numbers, but when we go into the details of the motives, Dr. Katsarov, in the first place you took out the information service of the Casa. Isn't this budget a budget for crisis management?! In the first row, in the first page of the reasons are those related to the provision of the information service of the Cashier. [[Noise and lines.]] That's not...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u23	Quiet, please! Excuse me, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u24	...nor serious, nor...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u25	Mr. Bojankov, please sit down! Go on, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u26	...nor is it serious, nor does it justify the reasons in such a way as to be adopted by the Members of the National Assembly so as to vote in favour of the draft budget. And by the specific figures that we are also insisting on, and several times we have said it, and here colleagues before us have said it in the Chamber Here we are offered in this way again not some detailed change, but the remaining in the hands of an authority, as the Supervisory Board is, to distribute as it wants the feathers, whatever volumes it gives to these feathers, which creates conditions for subjectivism, and on the other hand, creates conditions for debalance. Next, something that's very important. In an interview only a week ago, you said that you insisted, you care very much about the hospital treatment of infection of a horse during a subsequent fourth wave. This is not seen for the moment in the way the expenditure of the funds is presented. I don't want to deal with the honourable chamber here with this procedure which is currently being prepared. In the afternoon, we will have time in a more specialized audience to come into discussion on this issue. This is also important so that we can find the balance in the load of the system, the system does not turn out to be overloaded autumn and again get to such pathetic scenes with fainting people on the steps of hospitals and this dissatisfaction of the entire nation with the capabilities of the health system. Next and last but not least, perhaps in my speech, in your response to me, there are suddenly 13 million dollars for payment on coordination systems. Now, to tell you the truth, again a budget that is oriented towards the crisis state of the nation, of the health situation, cannot fix shit, as the old Bulgarians say, which were created years before that! Liabilities to other health cases in Europe, foreign health cases means coordination payments. Absolutely between first and second readings we will propose that this money be redirected to directions that will be useful for our healthcare at this time, in the changes that are expected. With all these remarks, our parliamentary group believes that the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund should be supported in principle at first reading and will submit its amendments and its detailed opinion between the first and second votes. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Mihailov, I agree with all the criticisms you have made to the Council of Ministers and tabled by the Minister of Health Budget updateer, except one. You have noted that there are no data to be analysed and properly interpreted in relation to cases of sick and hospitalized patients. That's my cue. I correct you because, as of last year, Mr. Mihailov, there is an interactive map, there is a Single Information Portal, which was made by experts of the Ministry of Health and the government of Borisov, from which it is evident....................................................................................I do not know............................................................................................................................................... In the last 24 hours, 48 more Kovid patients died in 33 died during the previous 24 hours. The total number, unfortunately, of all Bulgarians who have lost their lives to a horse is 18 613. In the last 24 hours 22 480 tests were made; in hospital 2985 people were accommodated, and 262 of them were in intensive care. 574 people were reported as being cured. This interactive map and the Single Information Portal provide information on all new cases by districts, provide information on all new cases of infected in hospitals, in the sense of medical staff. So I think this analysis can be done quite calmly. Apart from the fact that there is no analysis of what will happen with the upcoming school year, what will happen on the topic at all children's healthcare and what measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u29	Mrs. Atanasova, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u30	...takes over the Ministry of Health, and that against the backdrop of a crisis that we have been in for more than a year now, no adequate measures are being taken, I agree that there should be a debate again not only within the framework of this budget update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u31	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Chairman, Dear Minister Katsarov! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, many times I have allowed myself from this tribune to ask people who have no idea of anything not to enter it. You really were the Minister of Health, with all due respect to you, and I suppose that's the reason, but I can tell you my professional opinion, I've told Dr. Katsarov about the so-called Single Portal. Whoever did this left their hands there. Open it, look at it, I look at it every day and Dr. Katsarov and I have discussed it. Not to mention a platform that I ran into in one of the municipal hospitals to report a horse, it's a platform that's electronic, which connects between hospitals. What a miracle it is, what things are written there! Those are soft words that I say: he left his hands. This is not an informational readiness that is provided to the nation, to the one who is interested. This is no way to present things to people. There are many more serious ways to open the German platforms, open French, Italian platforms, see how they are structured. Then you will probably become clear without being a doctor, of course, and a specialist, what real and useful information means to the nation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the meaning of this discussion is how to financially support the health system, Bulgarian doctors and hence the Bulgarian patients in the difficult situation in which the country is located in connection with the Kovid crisis. Since the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is a financial plan, we cannot make an informed decision without being aware of the National Health Insurance Fund Father in terms of the implementation of the budget by the six months. Therefore, I thank the governor of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Salchev for the fact that this information, albeit at the last moment, was presented to the Committee on Health. Because without being aware of the implementation of the budget by June of this year, it is difficult to make informed decisions on how to help the healthcare system. It's that this system needs support, and I don't think anyone in this room would mind. I would like to remind the Members of the National Health Insurance Fund that 5 billion have been adopted in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021. The Commission 312,000. expenditure and transfers. Now the big question is whether these funds are sufficient or whether an update of this budget is necessary? In any case, the health system must be armed with an additional financial resource that can help the flexible system to overcome any type of obstacles. Currently, the funds envisaged to update the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund amounting to 124 million 500 thousand as revenues and expenses were read before in the discussion here it was said that the revenues of this 105 million, as the Minister of Finance said in the preliminary discussion at the hearing of the three ministers, are like re-execution of the income from insurance contributions. However, in the reasons of the Bill on the update of the Cashier's budget, it is written that this revenue is at the expense of the upcoming reclaim of pensions and hence an increase in the insurance revenue. It is not important where insurance revenues will come from, what is important at this stage is how we propose the allocation of these additional funds. I'm going back to the reporter on the implementation of the six-month budget because we're looking at some very interesting numbers there. First of all, a positive budget balance of about 127 million, which means that the management of the financial resources of the National Health Insurance Fund takes place under the rules laid down in the healthcare system. Next, with regard to health insurance payments, the implementation is 47.8%, including hospital care..7 percent, which means that there is an additional reserve, except for those 124 million 500 000, which can be used in times of crisis. However, I would like to draw your attention to several of the planned costs that my fellow Members have just mentioned. First of all, regarding the notorious 10 million for administrative activity, to support the administrative activity of the National Health Insurance Fund. Honourable Members, this includes expenditure on securing the security of information, expenditure on the purchase of the European Health Insurance Fund. It is not certain at all whether, behind these costs, there is an opaque financial interest. We cannot prove it, but given that, in times of crisis, 10 million is envisaged for administrative maintenance, we must be very aware of how transparently these additional funds are spent. Something extra to that $10 million. The court's costs of the executive books received are 3 million 800 thousand. These are the so-called subliminal activities of hospitals. Dear colleagues, from this tribune in the last four or five budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund, we have made proposals for dropping the limits in hospital care and regulatory standards in the outpatient, I stress in the outpatient rather than hospital care. What we have proposed has not been accepted over the years and we are now witnessing the fact that in the period 2015 - 2018 these obligations have been accumulated, which, notice, have not been provided for in the budgets, but have been verified, implemented and must be paid out, because this must be done by a judicial decision, since the budget can provide for all these costs in advance. In times of crisis, it is extremely important to prioritize expenditure. Because if the priorities are not aimed at health insurance payments, then the question remains why are these administrative expenditures offered now not provided in the regular budget, because they are regular and cannot be included in the "Crisis expenditures" section? That's my remark to the $10 million. Next, with regard to the means of administration of vaccines. What is important is the question whether they will be paid as a transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Health or as health insurance payments, but even more important is the next question: will this 14 million for health insurance and 5 million for health insurance - in total 19 million - lead to the expected effect? I want and will be happy if in the remaining three months 1 million 900 thousand Bulgarian patients, Bulgarian citizens, are vaccinated and Bulgarian doctors and employees in RZI benefit from these 19 million. lv. I hope this cost will be met because it will be useful for the health care system. And now, as it is called, the nail of the program, the famous 120 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! See what it says in art. 29, para. 3 of the Health Insurance Act: The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is determined by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the Cashier. Dear colleagues, we were all opposed to the SUV distributing the costs. We are now setting out a new SUV - the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund - only this SUV already has nine seats because the members of the Supervisory Board are nine. Should nine people, of whom four are representatives of the state, give them the opportunity to distribute by their own discretion, without methodology, without clear rules 120 million. lv.? This is the big question to which the proposals must answer between first and second readings. This is extremely important because the funds, I repeat, must be prioritized, must be for health insurance payments, must be spent transparently in order to be able to reach them. From our parliamentary group, we hope that proposals will be made between first and second readings to make an effective Budget update Act for the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. For lines? I can't see. For speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u36	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Members of the Parliamentary Group of the National Assembly Stand up BG! In essence, we support the proposed draft budget update bill of the Health Insurance Fund for 2021. It has already become clear that in order to ensure the ever-growing needs of our health system for medicines and medical devices, to secure staff engaged in the work with a species of patients, it is imperative that the budget be updated precisely. However, we also have to express our concerns about certain points. First of all, more than once the mentioned creation of a new order in art. 1, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 465 thousand. lv. for health insurance costs in the conditions of a pandemic. For us here there is insufficient information about the structural allocation of these costs in the relevant directions. Of the listed seven types of medical activities, only the exact costs mentioned are for the administration of CIVID-19 vaccines. The other activities envisaged lack criteria, volume and distribution principles. We consider it appropriate and necessary to detail the distribution of these funds on the basis of determining the estimated needs for the final directions in relation to the current situation in the country, thereby ensuring a fair distribution of funds and a security to deal with the crisis. Of course, there will inevitably be unforeseen or urgent costs, which will be additional, outside the previously drawn framework, and they need to be provided for a mechanism to redirect some of the funds from one feather to another, while maintaining full transparency and under the clear agreement of the legislator. The only thing that is clearly defined in this category is that the spending of the funds described and their distribution and payment will be determined only by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund. In terms of the cost of treating severe patients with COVID-19. Within existing clinical pathways, namely 39th, 104th and 48th costs often exceed the price of the relevant clinical pathways. This requires correct and fair valuation of their prices, taking into account the opinion of the experts and representatives of the hospital associations. We therefore welcome the projected increase in the price of clinical pathways, which has been tabled as part of the Bill. We also fully support the idea of creating a package for diagnostic, treatment and follow-up activities for patients with CoVID-19 in outpatient conditions. This would greatly alleviate the burden on the hospital network and those working in it, but there is also a lack of clear protocol and behaviour in relation to the specific clinical and paraclinical criteria, there is no clarity on the volume of the funded activities and the order for their funding. It is important that the existence of ambiguities and the lack of predictability in the allocation of additional costs could reflect in increasing mistrust and uncertainty in both patients and in the staff involved in their treatment. This is in itself capable of undermining the foundations of our fragile health system anyway. Right now it is important to be as clear, more precise, concrete, consistent and justified as possible in our actions to create the security and stability of the entire healthcare system so that it can meet the challenges facing it. Therefore, we will support the update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, but we will demand greater clarity and transparency in its expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Tavalka. For lines? I can't see. Mr. Simidchiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, dear Minister, Professor Salchev! Budgeting hardly has a more fragmented expression of the health strategy than what money and where will we spend it? And from this point of view, it is very important what has been heard in this House and by all the political forces that we did not have something to unite for and say: this is the strategy that we will be dealing with in the coming period. And this is extremely important when we are in a period of so many mutually interfering crises. "Democratic Bulgaria" considers one of its most important political tasks to stop the abuse of our money for health. And because healthcare is systematically referred to as a sector with increased levels of lobbying, services to private, corporate and political interests, as well as opaque use of our public resources, simply as an example Anyone sitting in this room and everyone listening to us right now can say if we have a 56% improvement in health status or quality of services in that same period?! That is, the increase in health resources is not always linked to improving health. That is precisely why, when we are making a budget and thinking about the healthcare strategy, we need to think about what we need to do so that we can achieve the effect. One of the important things is the lack of an adequate system for electronic cost tracking to be integrated with other electronic systems in our health system. It concerns the efficiency of expenditure, for example, on clinical pathways and diagnoses, including those related to coronavirus infection, which creates prerequisites for reducing cost inefficiency and directing this issue budget, which we will now vote on, in places where the most positive health effect will be created. The planned update of 124 million. lv. We believe that it is necessary as a quantity, but it is not sufficiently guaranteed against the opaque cost of this extremely valuable public resource. In essence, the work of the NHIF in 2020 was complicated with the mechanisms for financing the Kovid pandemic. This must be clear and very transparently divided what is happening around the Covid pandemic in the Casa, for which, by the way, it is non-existent, compared to the usual costs in a non-coffee period or pre-coffee period. From the available data, the estimated costs for a horse during the past two major epidemic waves do not significantly exceed the estimated and create an opportunity for quite precise forecasting of costs in the emerging pandemic. The reason for this is that unlike many countries that introduced immunization, which dramatically reduced hospitalizations and changed the ratio of what is happening in the health system, in Bulgaria we still have a low percentage. That is, the number of hospitalized people for whom Professor Mihailov appealed will be about the same in the order of 10% of those diagnosed, and we will not have an adequate reduction in hospitalizations, intensive care and mortality, precisely because the vaccination coverage is very low. If the motivation of the update is to deal with the pandemic, it is imperative to define a specific activity to be addressed, e.g. that proposed for the introduction of an out-of-the-box cut-off procedure. If we are going to make a strategy and we are going to want to move the focus of dealing with dormitory aid, it needs to be adequately financed this activity and more with the budget strategically to be clear how this is going to work. Between the two readings of the Bill, it is imperative that we have control criteria and guarantees against inefficient spending of this extremely valuable public resource. What I heard in the Chamber was the view of each of the political groups, with which each of us would agree in a large percentage. There are differences, but in order to deal with the pandemic, it is necessary to have consensus, including the fact that vaccines save lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, it is clear to us all that in a crisis situation the budgets that are formed must have buffers to absorb many unforeseen things. Despite our entire desire for full transparency, for a full definition of everything that is in the budget, it will hardly be the case at the end of the year when it will be analysed in its expenditure section. For many of the things to be refined from our point of view, Dr. Hristov has already mentioned. It is clear that we must support some correction and we must support some correction. We need to support the update of this budget with a view to a calm welcome to everything that will happen in the coming months and, if possible, to the extent possible, to the extent that some feathers which, from our point of view, need additional information for which we wish to make adjustments before the second reading of the changes to the Budget Bill. We are talking again about commenting on the topic of these notorious 14 million, which are intended to give vaccines to health-insured people. Perhaps it would be nice to have an additional phrasing information on whether new patients are involved, in the sense that those who have not been vaccinated so far, or to expect, in view of your speech, information from the European regulatory authorities to proceed with a third vaccination? I believe that many of those vaccinated with a first or second dose would like to give themselves a third dose. Are we talking about 700,000 new people in this case because 14 million suggest 700,000 people to be vaccinated with two doses? So from this point of view, it's not absolutely clear. It is not provided as a feather exactly how much money to be for injecting vaccines to the uninsured health. Uninsured persons are in the common cost group, so it would be nice to have a very rough analysis So from this point of view, I think that this should be refined, that the criteria for these vaccinations should be set, because indeed, in view of the current rate of vaccination. To vaccinate these 700 000 people is an extremely ambitious plan, but if these people decide to put a third dose in the event of such developments by the European regulatory authorities, will they then be sufficient to secure this budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chorbanov. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u42	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As has already become clear on behalf of our parliamentary group, we will first vote in favour of the proposed update, correction of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. So far, a serious part of our remarks and recommendations have been presented, which we have with regard to the budget that is being dealt with. We will support this budget, Mr. Minister, because during the hearings that were held here, it became clear that without an update of the budget, the funds so needed could not be provided in view of the crisis situation and the fourth wave, which is coming from the cod pandemic. These funds must be provided. They are undoubtedly necessary, but we also have serious remarks that need to be reflected between first and second readings, but I believe that it is not correct what you have said, entirely here, that the MPs present almost a complete development of the proposals that must be made between first and second readings. Responsible entities are clear in the face of the Ministry, the National Health Insurance Fund, here is the manager, so really all this should be very precise. As other Members have called for, I will also say that we must very effectively and target all needs. I would like to draw attention to this: it is true that this budget is for a crisis situation, for crisis measures to ensure the necessary financial resources, medicines, necessary safeguards, measures, disinfectants and so on, but it is good when considering a budget, because philosophy must suggest a continuation, a continuity of what we have discussed here, and in principle the vision that there should be for changes in the functioning of the health care system. We plead, I have said repeatedly at the Commission meeting that colleagues, all medical staff, I as a physician support those who work on the front and in hospital care, and all doctors, all medical staff, will not list them in detail, should receive the funds that are provided. What we have heard from Associate Professor Kirov, representing the general practitioners, is that they do not receive enough for the environment in which they work, the funds they are announced. I believe that this is not correct for doctors who are there for medical staff. It doesn't matter if they come in to work for half an hour or part-time to determine what to receive. I don't think this norm is the most objective, the most cardiacly correct. Let this be borne in mind by all the competent authorities.. to be correct to the people who help and really give out in this serious treatment process, prevention and the activities they carry out. Let us not forget that many doctors and medical staff have lost their lives in this environment. So there's a correctness to it. The other thing I would like to say as an impression is that no one is commenting on changing, we have repeatedly discussed, the proportion between the financing of hospital and hospital care, in general. We know very well that each invested lev in the hospital assistance for prevention and prevention saves 10 BGN. In the hospital. So the funds that will be spent would be much more effective and would achieve much higher goals. Here and other colleagues have pointed out that 50 and over 50 percent increase in funds and the quality of health has hardly changed. We discussed here, we discussed, there were debates about child health. There's no mention of a word anywhere. It's okay to make all this happen. If crisis measures are now under consideration, at least be identified and say that there is a vision for development in the budget for next year to be laid down. Children's and mother's health are always mentioned, but, unfortunately, all this remains only declarative, no concrete measures and actions are envisaged, and all this is done through a financial framework to ensure the improvement of the functioning of children's health care, where we know that mortality is one of the highest within the European Union. In view of the demographic profile and child health, and mother health really must be one of the priorities in the functioning of the health system. I would like to say a few words about drug policy. We are the country where, in proportion to the expenditures, the highest percentage is allocated to the poorest Member State of the European Union. We use the most expensive drugs. In this respect, action can be taken and we will plead that this will be improved in the future. This is far, far above the average norm that has been adopted in the Member States of the European Union. In our country, this percentage is quite high, nearly 100% higher than other countries with an extremely high standard in Europe and much higher drug prices. Finally, I would like to mention the information system taken by decision of the National Assembly to be implemented, to be built. It is good to see that the process of building the information system continues, because in addition to information, the functioning of the information system and the electronicisation of health care will enable the spending of the funds for the control that will be exercised. In this way, there will indeed be much greater efficiency than the funds being spent in the healthcare system. We also have many more notes that we will reflect between first and second readings. We will make our proposals, but with great concern we will monitor exactly how the allocation of the funds that are envisaged for this crisis situation will be shaped. We must also remember the horizon that is ahead of us for subsequent budget formats, all these priorities that need to be laid down, and the reform that is so imperative in the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u44	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, dear Professor Salchev, Mr. Minister! We will not support the submitted Draft Budget update bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for a very simple reason.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Bulgarian Medical Union is the main partner in negotiating with the National Health Insurance Fund for the National Framework Treaty. The Bulgarian Medical Union strongly objects to the way funds are allocated to the update of the NHIF budget, which were voted at first reading in the Health Commission. It is clear why: the planned additional funds amount to 134 million. BGN 10 million for maintenance or administrative expenses BGN, 4 million lv. For a reserve of 120 million. lv. for health insurance payments, which, notice, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, will be voted on in such a way as to be distributed by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Act categorically states that the funds from health insurance contributions are voted by the National Assembly on feathers. The National Framework Treaty, Methodology, voted by the Supervisory Board of the Fund, is also voted on by feathers. It is unacceptable what the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers want us to vote on 120 million. lv. Just like that, to spend on criteria that we don't know, with the excuse that we have to manage the crisis. Now let's talk a little bit about the Kovid crisis and its governance. Why does the Doctor's Union refuse to support this bill? Very simply the Bulgarian doctors were lied to, with the Bulgarian doctors the Ministry of Health mocked in the most brutal way, and for the last few months they did not receive their money 1000 leva. for line one. Moreover, notice, the Medical Union was several times, let me use the word manipulated that there will be no problem with the funds for the first line, and at a wonderful moment it turns out that some doctors who are on the first line do not receive 1000 leva, but less With regard to the means of increasing the rate of vaccination, I do not know how we would achieve an increase in the rate of vaccination when the Minister of Health makes contradictory statements in the public domain. And in order not to be naked, I will use concrete facts. A few days ago, the minister said the following: I think that only in Israel and somewhere else in the world are experimenting with the third dose of the vaccine. The statement was dated August 24, two weeks after the official authorities of the United States officially approved and authorised the use of a third dose of vaccine. Did Washington experiment with his citizens? I don't think so. President Biden has obliged the army to be vaccinated. Biden's conducting experiments on the U.S. Army? No way! Why am I noting all this? Because, when we speak, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, honourable Bulgarian citizens, for a horse, for a pandemic, for health, we must choose our words very carefully. And why exactly is the word "experiment" chosen to use the Minister of Health I can't say 'cause he's not informed because he doesn't read what's going on in the world because he just doesn't care, or because he's an antivaxer. In just these few months, the Ministry of Health suffered evolution and from anti-Vaxer politics at the beginning began to conduct a covert one. In this party interview on a party TV, you said that people die with a horse, not a horse. You said you were behind those words from before. It's very interesting how you speak one thing in front of national television and quite another in front of one of the party TV stations. My question is: which one is the real Minister of Health of the Republic of Bulgaria? Let these words be repeated in front of national televisions whether the Bulgarian citizens die with a horse or a Kovid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u45	What does that have to do with the update?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u46	It's a double game. This is not fair to Bulgarian citizens. Not to me, but to the people of Bulgaria. And I'm going to end up with a few specific things on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are presented with a project of 134 million. BGN, which we will vote on someone to distribute, as they consider necessary, without getting clear answers and without receiving facts. It is clear that this is about a person's personal opinion in the country. Only, Minister, you have the right to have a personal opinion, but you have no right to have personal facts. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u48	Honourable Members, Madam President! Dear Minister, the expectation is that it is the health minister from the cabinet Borisov 3, the former health minister, will silence or at least save his brazen behavior from this tribune, because the Bulgarians have not forgotten how you managed the crisis of a horse, how many people lost their lives in front of hospitals and on the stairs in the medical facilities [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] , how Bulgaria became a record for mortality and in March this year reached 21 per thousand recordkeeper not only in Europe but also in the world. No one has forgotten how the doctors and nurses were lied to and how the promised 1000 leva were promised. They split between five sisters at 200 leva. We haven't forgotten about your failure to manage the third wave of covid. We have not forgotten both the amounts and the deals with corrupt taste that were in the Committee on Revision and were publicly announced in Forty-Fiveth and in the Forty-Sixth Parliament, for the purchase of masks, in kalsuns, in various consumables. So at the very least, you should show a little modesty from this parliamentary tribune and criticize, based on how you handled it. And your management of the third wave of Kovid, in fact the second and the first, was a failure that Bulgaria paid with lost human lives. Lives that could be saved! So more modesty and humility than you, because you are the face of the failure to manage the crisis against the Kovid. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Second line please, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u50	Firstly, I believe that we are discussing here the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, not a Vaxer and Anti-Vaxer policy. This is a cause for quite other debates and they don't belong here. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I would like to take note of the fact that you have so far made it clear that this budget will almost be adopted as it was submitted to you, as it was in your time. This is not going to happen, and you've heard very well that all the groups we've been here have requested a detailed budget of feathers. And that will be done, I assure you. Your time won't happen again, so just stop in front of the viewers and TV stations doing some ads and insinuations. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Manolova, from your lips the word "peace" sounds like heresy. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of, and on the contrary, I can be proud of what we have achieved. And I'll tell you what we've done. We managed successfully both the first and the second and third wave of COVID-19 [[crowd cheering and cheering: "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!"]] , independently, independently...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u53	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u54	...if you like it. [[Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u55	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u56	Whether you and the other political parties like it or not. As I said, I will repeat myself once again: you have the right to your own opinion, but you have no right to your own facts. The facts are very clear and simple. Bulgaria was the only country in Europe that with extremely soft measures managed to successfully translate the Bulgarian people through the crisis, unlike the other countries in which people used to text to get out. The Bulgarian government has provided enough vaccines, which Minister Katsarov currently sells, gives or donates to other countries, or scraps, but does not scrap them, but hides them in the freezers of the RZI so that there are no scrapping protocols in the Executive Medicines Agency. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] And also... [[noise and lines]] We've also succeeded...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u57	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u58	... very clearly and accurately communicate this policy with Bulgarian society. And if a moment ago Professor Mihailov said that the things he receives as information are unclear, then let's make it clear to the Bulgarian journalists: they are such because the Ministry of Health no longer sends the detailed report to the Bulgarian journalists about the morbidity in areas, ladies and gentlemen. So we have nothing to be ashamed of, Mrs. Manolova. We can only be proud. And when you speak of humility, be truly humble. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u60	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We are currently seeing an absurd monologue on the part of a person who should rather be ashamed because, Mr. Angelov, you have not dealt with the crisis, there are many facts, both in the first and in the second and in the third wave. While people were dying on the stairs in the hospitals, you were walking around in your jeep in the backseat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u61	Mr. Balabanov, just a reminder: the theme is the budget of the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u62	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have a personal statement on behalf of the parliamentary group. So you were riding in the back of the jeep. [[Applause from IHN.]] Is that right? We were the first to die during your handling of the coronavirus. When we were counting the victims of people who committed suicide from the floors of the biggest hospitals in Bulgaria, the responsibility is yours, because you were going out from morning to night on the three national television stations that worked for you to scare people with body bags. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u63	Well, they were real.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u64	You have that responsibility and you will pay the price sooner or later. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Balabanov, you and your leader were one of those who claimed there was no coronavirus at all. Not at all! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Not at all! You lied to the Bulgarian people! You lied to him like, not to say what, because we've been politically correct, for a few months, and you claimed that masks shouldn't be worn, that vaccines shouldn't be used. There are still people in your parliamentary group who claim that you should not vaccinate the population, or at least hint at it, or at least doubt it. Your leader made a funny speech a few months after the first wave we missed because of the measures taken by General Mutafchiyski and the Bulgarian government. They saved the Bulgarian people in the first wave. Them, not you! [[Noise, shouts: "Eee! "]] Not Slavi Trifonov, not you! Not you! We didn't do anything but get in the way, of course. You were burning masks in the squares, Mrs. Manolova. Your people who used to walk and burn masks because the masks were to keep quiet, that's what you all kept saying. You have no contribution to solving the coronavirus. My question to you is: what is your contribution, Mr. Balabanov, both your party and your colleagues to dealing with the coronavirus? And as far as they died, according to your logic, 30 people died because of Mr. Katsarov yesterday. That's your logic. I'm not saying it, but you're saying it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Nenkov, here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Balabanov doesn't honor you at all. We're in a difficult situation. The world is facing a huge challenge - economic, health. People die every day. Every day! And now it's the easiest thing to say here: here, the government is guilty. However, really, if we are responsible, we must realise that the enemy is invisible and most likely we will have a serious problem with him from now on. The whole world! But what's the saddest part? The saddest thing is this: I also see in other societies how they proceed. In such situations, a society should be united or at least looking for common points of contact in order to be able to go through these crises as lightly as possible, with at least the least damage. But what did you do? Tell me: if you have so much criticism of the government how did it deal with the pandemic, then what was your formula, what is your position? With the contradictions that have just become clear that you have made them in time, do you think that this is how you contribute to taking this test lightly?! That's the saddest part! Instead of these moments, at least society on this topic, perhaps uniting everyone, because we are a society, we are Bulgarians, we live together, we have to help each other in the most difficult times, and we unfortunately, unfortunately... In this I include the creation or rather the inability to create a working government and we are going to the third elections, and it also contributes to the fact that we cannot go through the crisis with the least damage. This is irresponsible behavior, because if you were responsible, at least what it is, you wouldn't be in the way, or at least if you have any vision of yourself, say: we offer first, second, third.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u69	Your time, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u70	And in those months, Mr. Balabanov, you just sat there, protested and criticized each other, nothing more! And instead of the state being united now and we here as MPs to show a sign to the Bulgarian society,...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u71	Your time, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u72	...we are as divided as possible thanks to you the three parties. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u73	Thank you. Third line? Would you like a time increase from GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u75	Increase the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Balabanov, I have nothing to be ashamed of. I can say it 100 times if I have to. I will only remind the Bulgarian citizens of what you did during our briefings. We gave them every Thursday with the National Operational Headquarters at 10:00 pm. We answered all the questions of Bulgarian journalists as much as it took to answer all the questions that excite people. What were you doing? You came and asked questions about how you were sending messages about how there is no virus, how masks are to keep quiet, how this is propaganda and so on. That's what the Minister of Health was doing at the time. The same as looking at his posts on social networks! And if I from this tallest tribune beat the red lamp, it's because we have to be united, it's because when we talk about COVID-19, only then do we have to talk the same thing. Yeah, as a person and as a doctor, I'm very sick that in your TV the minister said you die with a horse and you don't die with a horse. Somehow it seems to me that on August 24th, it's highly illogical that we are the only country in the world that we've seen the truth or the deep conspiracy that you're trying to get us into. Bulgarian society...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u77	Your time, Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u78	...has been through a lot of crises, but the only way out of this crisis is unity, not disunity. It's the only way we can save more people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you are, Mr. Balabanov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u80	Mrs. Chairman! It is a sad picture that we are seeing at the moment because, Mr. Angelov, I must assure you that my appearance at these briefings, which were not only on Thursdays, but were every day every morning, every afternoon and every evening, was justified, as a priority for you all this time, before we appeared, were the questions of Benovska and Iva Nikolova from some other sites that we all know. My appearance at these briefings was to answer the questions that every Bulgarian citizen asks themselves at night while watching you on TV, because he saw a general in a black uniform, who is a brilliant abdominal surgeon, but is a stomach surgeon, not a person dealing with viruses, and a health minister before you, who was actually such a financial one when it's profitable for you. The Bulgarian people did not receive the real information about what was happening, but heard your words that playgrounds would be turned into mortuaries for corpses. The Bulgarian people had to be calm! We have only referred to the facts because we did not have the opportunity to rule then, but rather we were looking at the illogical actions of your political party and your prime minister back then. You should be ashamed, Mr. Angelov, that your orders, which you issued as Minister of Health, were removed lightly from the Prime Minister because it did not matter to him, because he used these draft briefings rather for the political campaign of GERB party. You have the responsibility once again! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] All of Bulgaria knows that you have the responsibility, and we never said that there is no virus. We were just showing your mistakes and the Bulgarian people realized them! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u81	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] For a statement? That was Mr. Angelov's line. There is no such procedure, Mrs. Manolova. If you like the way you run it? You're also entitled to a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u82	Mr. Bikov mentioned me by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u83	Mr. Bikov was in the hypothesis of a replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u84	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u85	The personal explanation is a statement, not a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u86	It's case studies!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u87	It's not a case, it's an application of the Rules! The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u88	Madam President, honourable Members! There was a call from the former health minister to rely on facts. Facts, Mr. Bikov, that I or anyone from the parliamentary group of We're coming!...or from the other protest parties....we've gorillad masks....there's no masks. There are no such facts! There's no such thing as proof of such facts! But pictures of how the health minister, along with the chiefs of the major hospitals, rides in the jeep and inspects highways instead of caring for the sick in the third coat wave, has pictures of you sitting humbly and disgracefully in the back of the jeep, along with the boss of Pirogov and showing you highways! Highways that turn out to be built with contracts that are in illegal procedures. Those are the facts! And if you really care about the facts and if you really care about reaching an agreement on the eve of the fourth wave, then why don't you support the update of the Casa budget? Why don't you want the insurance money to be spent on hospitals, hospital care, medical care? Why don't you?! Because it is hypocrisy, because you sabotage and because your calls for consensus are hypocritical behind them stand your party accounts, but once again they will not be true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. The way you're holding Mr. Simidchiev. I hope we can return the debate to the Cassata budget, Mr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u90	Madam President, that is why I am taking the floor in the manner of conduct. In the last few minutes, we've been discussing things from the past, and the budget is focused on the future. Please, let us focus on what we can change, what is the future, not the past, which is a fact. Whether it was like a rubber band, or it was like a plan that's parametric, that's past. Let's focus on the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u91	Thank you, Mr. Simidchiev. For speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I want to address Mr. Angelov and tell him that there is nothing to be ashamed of and that his self-esteem of this bank here is unwarranted. You knew very well what should be done in this pandemic there was no dispute about it, but you didn't. At the beginning we started from a situation where in 50 sick people we closed the cities and absolutely limited the entire economy I am a man who has his own business, and I know that our turnover has fallen more than double. That was an overdose. Personally, I'm not against her, despite everything, because she's better overdosed than none. At the end of the pandemic, however, still under your rule, 200 people died a day and you did nothing, the businesses were open. And the reason why, Mr. Angelov, is very simple: the approval of the government at the time of GERB was about 24% and at the top you received orders not to close establishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u93	Mr. Peykov, please make the connection to the NHIF Budget Act!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u94	The connection is that the only meaningful thing that has been done in recent months is on Dr. Simidchiev's suggestion, and it is to have repers and, thank God, this has been accepted, to have points to enter orange, red and dark red zones respectively. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Well, they're not respected, but that's another topic, that's the competence of other authorities. The point is, you have to have them. There has to be a consistent relationship. Yesterday there was an extremely good interview on TV, which said: it is more important to follow the measures than to constantly import new ones. We are now trying to clear the Augian stables that you left us because it is this insipidity that I look into your eyes and tell you because I believe that this has led to the situation that we are the last to be in Europe on vaccination. This is not a diagnosis for the Bulgarian people, it is a diagnosis for your government! That's the sad truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Peykov. - What's the line? I can't see. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u96	Madam President, please, strictly, in principle and impartially apply the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. Today we have an extremely serious and busy program. If any point allows for free writings on the subject of a specific legislation, we will not end at first reading within a few days. I very much ask you to interrupt, not to make elegant remarks to everyone who deviates from the topic, because the conversation has really come out of the topic of updating the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. In no way will this contribute to dealing with the crisis of the epidemic and, on the other hand, will not raise the rating, because it is clear that this National Assembly is rather electoral and not in the sense of doing real actions in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I ask you to strictly carry out your duties and control the order in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues, Mr Minister, Mr Chairman of the NHIF! I will talk about the budget, only a little bit in the form of talking about budgeting, because we are here today and now, with the need to revise the budget of the state with these three main constituent budgets. Because I think this is not a good practice and I will say it when we discuss the State Budget Act, it is not good to review the budget of a country in such a serious way in the middle of the year. This always means that it was poorly planned in the previous year when it was accepted. Some of the problems with the NHIF budget today are due precisely to budget planning deficits in the previous year. As far as I know, the 1,000 leva mentioned here. additionally for first-line medics were not specifically planned for the whole year, but taken out of reserve. There is no explicit feather for this expense, and the Minister is currently facing the need to juggle inside with expenses.I suppose it is not particularly pleasant this occupation so that he can find this money. We are now trying to make this explicit. Of course, this covers only the last three months of the year. I very much hope that the planning of the state budget for the entire next year will now be more responsible for the likelihood of such costs, however pathetic that is, and be explicitly included so that we do not need to revise again in the middle of next year. I ask you very much to take this issue seriously, the fact that we are looking at a budget revision today is a criticism of ourselves that we did not do it well last year. We can get into a deep conversation about why, who was here last year, who wasn't in this room last year, who is more responsible, who less is probably going to end this conversation, but I really appeal now to plan it so that no revisions are imposed by the end of the year and we can already start planning the budget for next year so that he doesn't have any revisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. For lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Ganev, I feel a little uncomfortable talking to you and arguing with you on financial issues, because I am still a medic, but you are definitely wrong. This year's budget is well planned, and this shows the budget implementation report for the first 6-month period, establishing that there are 120 million unused funds for health insurance payments during the first 6-month period. The individual budget implementation parameters shall be within the limits of the maximum allowed for the first 6 months. The update of the budget is made only to enable the Supervisory Board, at its discretion, to allocate funds from possible increased transfers for health insurance as a result of the recalculation of pensions and the inclusion of the prognosis of additional over the contribution provided for in the Casa Budget Act for this year's collected health contributions, something declared by the NRA. So in this sense, the budget is absolutely correct. These funds that you are talking about are for the first-line medics, they are paid from a transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Health. This update has nothing to do with them, because it provides basic means for health insurance payments, so your speech was incorrect. I believe that the update that is being made is insufficiently financially and legally and technically, as I have already had the opportunity to state it. It will be very difficult for the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is leading, at second reading, to correct all these difficulties. I really feel for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u101	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, thank you for this criticism. In it I hear a considerable dose of meaning, but from everything we see at the moment as presenting proposals for revision of all three budgets and as a presentation of the arguments why this is necessary, it leads to my full conviction that last year the budget was not adequately planned. The main reason for this is that the cost ceiling is already approaching and, in fact, the main reason why we need to revise the budget is the need to raise this ceiling so that all costs can be replaced as provided, or that they stop being made, which is quite unpleasant. This includes stopping the 50 leva for pensions, stopping 1000 leva. for the first line and so on, because just the ceiling has been hit somewhere has not been calculated in a fourth wave what will happen to the ceiling of expenditure in Bulgaria. Once again, I insist that we are actually talking about a poorly, impractically planned budget and therefore I call on us to be much more careful by planning future budgets so that such revisions will not be imposed in the middle of the year, because this is never good, especially from the perspective of the normal development of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I won't use the time to respond to personal attacks spoken in such a vicious manner by an obviously obsessed person, but I will use it to bring more clarity. First on the subject we're discussing. I share many of the criticisms that have been addressed to the Budget Bill, but for the most part these are criticisms of the state of the health system and of the current Budget Act, which we propose to supplement. Once again, the proposal is that the NHIF budget, which amounts to 5.3 billion, should be supplemented by 120 million. lv. How do you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that with that 120 million. BGN, which are below 3% of the total cost of the Casa, the Minister of Health will change the philosophy of the health system and reform the health system in the way someone wants it? Can such a thing be expected at all, or is it required to be achieved with this instrument? With regard to whether or not costs should be allocated. That question is not important. I do not agree with you that if expenditure is allocated by decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, it is not transparent. On the contrary, all decisions of the Health Insurance Supervisory Board and discussions shall be published, the transcripts of the discussions shall be published. This is just as transparent as it is transparent and the meeting of the National Assembly, there is no problem to be differentiated and described. This is not an obstacle to passing the Law, this is no reason to reject the Law, this can be done without a problem. Why shouldn't it be done? I will tell you and link it to the question that you have asked about the outpatient procedure, about the possibility of treating patients outpatients outpatiently, and not just in the hospital, as it has been since the beginning of the pandemic. This bill was drafted and adopted by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, the Minister of Health is only an importer. He doesn't even have the right to make adjustments to it. As proposed, it is imported into the National Assembly through the Council of Ministers. That's what the Health Insurance Act says. The Health Insurance Supervisory Board passed the Bill a few weeks ago. This is the time when negotiations are under way to develop this type of outpatient treatment procedure, and these negotiations include word organisations, the Health Insurance Supervisory Board and, in order for it to take place, agreement must be reached between them and the relevant methodology signed. It's a process that's ongoing right now. For this reason, in the Bill, I say again, which has been drawn up and has been adopted a few weeks ago, there is no way to reflect and plan these costs. Thank God, if today at today's meeting the Supervisory Board approves this procedure, if it agrees with the Bulgarian Medical Union, this before the second reading of the Bill can also be provided as a specific feather. But not to be predicted, that will not be a problem. I would like to remind all of you that the National Health Insurance Fund, since it was established, has always had a reserve. This reserve was over 5% of its revenues and expenses. This reserve, the Supervisory Board could have distributed it in a way that it considered necessary to support those costs that are overcosted and that is operating. This year's Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, which was adopted by the previous National Assembly, provides for a reserve, but only by name, because in the reserve itself the costs are allocated by the items in fact at the moment the Health Insurance Fund has no reserve. Once again, the lack of such distribution is no reason to reject the Bill and there is no problem to do it. If you prefer this to be done, I'm committed to here is the manager of the Health Insurance Fund, to draw up and offer you specific parameters by feathers. This is not a problem for the adoption of the budget. This can only make the Health Insurance Fund difficult, given the dynamics and ambiguity of the situation, nothing more. It will not change from this neither philosophy nor the way money will be spent nor will it make it more transparent or more opaque. As regards the crisis, as this issue has been addressed and is directly related to the proposed amendment not only to the NHIF Budget Act but also to the amendment of the state budget. They say things that aren't true. The main risks facing the health system are two. The first is the poor condition of the health system. Catastrophic poor health system condition with all the balances broken. I'm saying it most responsiblely. This is the inheritance we received after the 10-year government of GERB. Totally disturbed health balance sheets, disturbed inter-hospital and extra-hospital balance sheets, broken balances between medical, medical and nurse staff, broken balances between different specialties in the health system. You say: where is the money for pediatrics? Where should I point out the money for pediatrics, and they should follow another way of evaluating the services of pediatrics, which is achieved by negotiations between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Association and this is reflected in the National Framework Treaty? This requires reform, this requires time, requires participation of the National Assembly, this cannot be subject to a draft budget bill of the Health Insurance Fund. Can we, with the National Health Insurance Fund budget bill, change those balances that have been accumulated for a decade? We can't change it, there's nothing we can do about it. This is the main risk we face in the next pandemic wave. This is not just an assessment, it is confirmed by statistics from the objective media. Bulgaria is first in the world on total mortality, Bulgaria has the highest infant mortality in the European Union, with the shortest life expectancy. We are chiefs of mortality from curable diseases, we are chiefs of preventable mortality in the European Union, we pay the most for medicines and as patients we pay the most of all in the European Union. These are the facts of the state of the health system. This system with disturbed balances and with these indicators should now enter into battle with another pandemic wave. We are addressing you and we want to say: support this system, which is in extremely bad condition with another 120 million. BGN, raise another 2% opportunity to spend money and use these funds for the treatment of Bulgarian citizens. That's the point of today's debate. As far as managing the crisis is concerned. But, please, the crisis management so far has been a disaster. The facts are therefore absolutely eloquent. From 1 November to 30 April Bulgaria lost 26 thousand more lives than in any of the last five years. Not just five years! During World War II, Bulgaria lost 12 500 people on the front. In just six months, we've lost 26,000 people! What other attestation is needed to manage the crisis so far, who needs another attestation? This is not just bad governance, it is the way of governance which must become the subject of an investigation by the prosecution, because the cause of this high mortality is directly linked to the mismanagement of the crisis, it is a direct consequence of the mismanagement of the crisis. The second serious problem facing the health system, entering the pandemic wave, is the poor condition of hospitals, hospitals that have accumulated debts, hospitals in practice decapitalized, hospitals on the threshold of bankruptcy. Yeah, that's Alexandrovska Hospital. It has 70 million capital. One of the leading hospitals in the country, 70 million capital, 70 million debts!? 35 million of them are in default, with negotiated agreements from the previous hospital directors, in which the interest is of the order of 10 "15" plus 20% plus the base interest rate. How is it that this hospital in this financial state that constantly cracks plumbing, pipes, roof leaks, how does a hospital in this state expect it to actively engage in the battle with the pandemic wave, serve patients at a high level, do its job, how do doctors who work do it? A lot of these things we can't change right now. What we can do and what we appeal to all of you as MPs, support these updates, give people the opportunity to deal with the pandemic wave. There is a time after that the National Assembly, the next government, I hope, will be on a regular basis and will deal with these reforms. This is not the moment of the debate. The moment of the debate now is whether to support the health system at the difficult time in the bad condition it is in or not to support it. It's a shame if you don't support the health system with fictional legal and technical arguments and so on. Well, fix them at second reading if you don't like them. Give the money to the people by voting so that they can have at least a little peace in this heavy battle that is coming to them all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u105	Thank you, Mr. Katsarov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021, No 46-102-01, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. They voted 185 MPs: for 145, against 1, abstention 39. The proposal has been adopted and the bill of first vote has been adopted. Holiday till 12:00. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u106	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: CHAPTER 1 1 - TOTAL Please, the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u107	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. At a meeting held on 24 August 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Galab Donev, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Violeta Lorer, Deputy Minister of Finance; Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. Pensions are essential to preserving people's quality of life after retirement, as for most of them they are the only source of income. In this regard, the government's efforts are aimed at raising them. However, this objective must be consistent with both the financial opportunities of the public security budget and the basic principles and the adopted social security legislative framework. In view of the improvement of the situation in the labour market and the favorable prospects for the economy, the Bill proposes an increase in revenues and transfers under the consolidated budget of state social security by 353 200,0 thousand. BGN, including the income from insurance contributions increased by 163 000,0 thousand. BGN, non-tax revenues by 67 000,0 thousand BGN, received transfers from the central budget for the state social security with 6 000,0 thousand. lv. and additional transfers received from the central/state budget to cover the funding gap of 117 200,0 thousand. lv. Bulgaria is one of the countries in the European Union with the highest proportion of people aged 65 years and older living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. At the same time, the share of public expenditure on pensions from gross domestic product (GDP) is relatively lower than the EU average, and from that in countries with similar age structure of the population. While in 2019 the expenditure on public pensions was 8.3 per cent of GDP, the average for the European Union was 11.6 per cent. At the same time, in other countries, for example, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, the share of government expenditure on GDP pensions is lower or closer to that in Bulgaria, but in these countries the risk of poverty or social exclusion for people aged 65 and older is significantly lower, respectively 17.4 per cent of the Czech Republic, 16.7 per cent of Hungary, 12.3 per cent of Slovakia. On this basis, it can be concluded that there are reservations in Bulgaria regarding both the amount of resources allocated through the state pension system to reduce poverty, protect incomes and promote social inclusion of the elderly and the allocation and direction of resources. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021 proposes a package of measures by which a higher income from pensions is permanently provided for both current and future pensioners. The proposed amendments ensure that all about two million and eighty thousand pensioners will receive an increase in their income from a pension from state social security and the average increase of one pensioner is BGN 64. Total additional expenditure for 2021 for pensions amounts to 353 000,0 thousand. lv. The Bill provides for a change in the applied burden for one year of insurance service in the pension formula from 1.2 percent to 1,35 percent, starting from 1 October 2021, which is an increase of 12.5 percent. In this way, the adequacy of both the pensions already allocated and the newly granted is increased, the continued participation of people on the labour market is promoted and the rate of replacement of past labour income is increased. The additional costs for 2021 for the implementation of this change amount to 236 400,0 thousand. lv. In addition, a change is proposed which provides for the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age granted under the general conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code, to increase from 300 BGN. At 340 leva. from 1 October 2021, resulting in an increase of 13,3 per cent of the amounts of all employment pensions fixed at a minimum amount. As a result of the proposed change, the minimum size of the other pensions for employment will be increased as a result of the proposed change, which will be defined as a percentage of the pension for retirement and age: disability pensions due to general illness, disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness and inherited pensions. An increase will also be received by pensioners who currently receive a pension above the minimum amount for the species concerned, but after the recalculation with the greater weight of one year of insurance service will remain below the new minimum amount. Total additional costs for 2021 amounted to 120 900,0 thousand. lv. By amending the provision of § 7, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law for 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received without supplements is increased from BGN 1440. At 1500 leva. This change will provide an opportunity to increase the amount of pensions of both pensioners with a real pension amount of BGN 1440 and pensioners who are currently receiving less than BGN 1440, but after the recalculation with the greater weight of a year internship, the amount of their pension will exceed BGN 1440. The additional costs for 2021 amounted to 9 000,0 thousand. lv. To apply a fair approach in updating the incomes of all pensioners in the bill are provided the necessary funds to increase the amount of social pension for old age from BGN 148,71. BGN 170,00. monthly from 1 October 2021. This will result in an increase of 14,3 percent of all non-employment pensions as well as the corresponding allowances to pensions calculated from the amount of the social pension for old age, with a total of the additional costs of 2021 amounting to 7,800,0 thousand. BGN, including 3 000, 0 thousand. lv. to increase the foreign aid supplement under art. 103 of the Social Security Code. Funds of 24 900,0 thousand are provided for. lv. to increase the size of the additives under art. 84 of the Social Security Code............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill provides the necessary funds of 104,000,0 thousand. lv. to pay the additional amount to the pensions for September 2021 of BGN 50 The aim is to support pensioners to continue until the provisions on the basis of which the basic amounts of all pensions are increased from 1 October 2021. In determining the budgetary parameters, an expected savings in pension expenditure of 150,000,0 thousand has been reported. lv. as a result of the admission of a smaller number of pensioners at the end of the year compared to the planned in the adoption of the Law on the Budget for 2021. The reduction in the number of pensioners is mainly due to negative demographic processes with particular intensity in the last months of 2020 and the beginning of 2021. The necessary funds of BGN 200 000 are also provided. for the payment of the contribution under an agreement between the institutions of the dominant part of the Member States to continue the maintenance of the RINA data transfer software product to be concluded in this year. This will enable the participation of the Bulgarian competent institutions (National Insurance Institute, National Revenue Agency, National Health Insurance Fund and Social Assistance Agency) in the electronic exchange of social security information in the European Union. The representatives of employers' and trade unions expressed principle support for the update of the state social security budget for 2021. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. For the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report please come in, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u109	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 24 August 2021 examined and discussed a Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021. The meeting was attended by Galab Donev, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Social Policy, Ivan Krastev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Dragomir Draganov, Director of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy, Planning and Predicting at NSI, Maria Mincheva, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, Shteryo Nozharov, Economic Advisor at the Bulgarian Industrial Association, Dr. Maria Petrova, Secretary General of the Union for Economic Initiative, Asia Goneva, National Secretary of CNSB. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev. The Bill proposes changes relating to a package of measures that permanently ensure higher income than pensions for both current and future pensioners. The proposed amendments ensure that all around 2080.0 thousand. pensioners will receive an increase in their income from a pension from state social security, with the average increase of one pensioner is BGN 64. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 of the Social Security Code provides for a change to the applied burden for one year in the pension formula by which the amount of pensions related to employment will be calculated with the start date after the entry into force of the Law of 1 October 2021. Since the beginning of 2019 it has been 1.2 percent. This bill provides for an increase of 1,35 per cent, representing an increase of 12.5 per cent. In this way, the adequacy of newly granted pensions is increased, the continued participation of people on the labour market is promoted and the rate of replacement of past labour income is increased. Proposals for changes in art. Art. 75, Art. 79 of the Social Security Code, which regulates the way in which disability pensions are determined due to general illness, accidents and occupational sickness, are caused by the need to comply with legislative decisions in relation to the calculation of invalidity pensions with those adopted in insurance and age pensions, as they are all of the nature of pensions related to employment. In accordance with art. 70, para. 9 of the Social Security Code The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is determined by the Law on the Budget of the State Social Security (SBDO). As provided for in the current provision of art. 10 of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021 the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age is BGN 300. The bill proposes a change which provides for the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age granted under the general conditions of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code, to increase from 300 BGN. At 340 leva. from 1 October 2021, this leads to an increase of 13.3 per cent in the size of all pensions for employment fixed at a minimum amount. An increase will also be received by pensioners who currently receive a pension above the minimum amount for the species concerned, but after the recalculation with the greater weight of one year of insurance service will remain below the new minimum amount. As a result of the proposed change, the minimum amounts of other pensions for employment will be increased by the same percentage, which will be determined in a percentage of the pension for retirement and age: disability pensions due to general illness, disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness and inherited pensions. In order to improve the adequacy of employment pensions and to ensure that all pensioners, including those with an actual pension size below the minimum and above the maximum, are given a real increase in pensions from 1 October 2021, it is necessary to set a higher minimum, respectively a maximum amount of pensions. By amending the provision of § 7, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law for 2021 the maximum amount of one or more pensions received without supplements is increased from BGN 1440. At 1500 leva. This change will provide an opportunity to increase the amount of pensions of both pensioners with a real pension amount of BGN 1440 and pensioners who are currently receiving less than BGN 1440, but after the recalculation with the greater weight of the year internship the amount of their pension will exceed BGN 1440. To apply a fair approach in updating the incomes of all pensioners in the bill are provided the necessary funds to increase the amount of social pension for old age from BGN 148,71. At 170 leva. monthly from 1 October 2021. As a result of the proposed change, the amounts of the other non-employment-related pensions (the pension for military invalidity, the civil invalidity pension, the social disability pension and the personal pension) will be increased as well as of the statutory supplements to pensions, which will be determined in percentage of the social pension for old age: the addition for foreign assistance under art. 103 The Social Security Code, the 1985 Decree No 1611/85 supplement to increase the pensions of disabled people of the Homeland War 1944. 1945 and the supplement under art. 5 of the War Veterans Act. The increase in the amount of social pension for old age of BGN 148,71 up to BGN 170,00 will result in an increase of 14.3 per cent of all non-employment pensions, as well as the corresponding allowances to pensions calculated from the amount of the social pension for old age. In order to ensure a level playing field, a Transitional provision in the Social Security Code (§7f) is proposed, which provides that all pensions granted before 1 October 2021 will be re-calculated with the higher burden of insurance service. The actual increase may be greater than 12.5 per cent if the calculated actual amount of the pension is below the proposed by the Bill a new minimum amount of employment pensions for the respective type, as in this case it will be determined on it. The bill provides the necessary funds to pay the additional amount to the pensions for September 2021 at the amount of BGN 50. The aim is to support pensioners to continue until the provisions on the basis of which the basic amounts of all pensions are increased from 1 October 2021. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Economic Initiative Union, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and KT Supporta. All organizations state principled support for the Bill. In addition to those opinions, Protocol No 9 of the extraordinary meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was received in the Commission. The sitting was held on 26 July 2021. The National Council for Tripartite Cooperation has achieved unanimous support regarding the Draft Law. The discussion was attended by the MPs Pawnita Petrova, Maya Manolova, Denitsa Sacheva, Alexander Markov, Dr. Hassan Ademov, Tsetska Bachkova and Georgi Gokov. Most of the MPs said they support, in principle, the update of the state social security budget, but also have specific remarks that they will submit as proposals between the first and second reading of the bill. GERB MPs said they will refrain from support and will also make proposals between first and second reading of the bill. Mr. Galab Donev answered his questions in full by the MPs. The discussion was attended by representatives of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the Union for Economic Initiative. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 14 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reports of the two committees in full reflect the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021. The main parameters proposed to increase the social security burden of one year in the formula for the calculation of pensions of 1.2 become 1.35. The minimum pension is respectively increased by 300 BGN. At 340 leva, the increase was 13.3%. Social pension for old age rose from BGN 148,71. at 170 BGN, with all pensions calculated as a percentage of the social pension for old age, also increased the increase of their size on average is 14.3%. Naturally, the maximum amount of the pension for internship and the age of BGN 1440 is also increased. at BGN 1500, the increase is 4.2%. However, it must be borne in mind that as of 1 January 2021, the increase in the maximum amount of the pension was increased by more than 20%, which is more than the average amount of 5,1%, which all other pensions received, with the exception of the maximum and minimum pension. I would give additional information on the number of pensions that will be increased as a result of the increase in the burden of one year of insurance service. That's $2 million. 31,000. 200 pensions, the average size is increased by BGN 487. At 550 leva. The total additional cost of the proposed measure is 366 million. 30,000. lv. The number of pensions to be increased by 12.5% is 1 million. 44,000. 100 leva. The total amount of the additional pension cost for the proposed measure is 236 million. 400,000. BGN, 35 thousand. 500 pensions will remain limited by the new maximum amount of BGN 1500. Of these, 24 500 will receive 60 leva. an increase of 4,2%, and an additional 11 thousand will receive an average increase of about 115 BGN, which is an 8.4% increase. The number of pensions to be increased from 300 to 340 BGN. is 898 800 pensions, with 52 800 pensions will be increased from 300 to 340 BGN. and will receive the higher maximum amount, with the total number of pensions of the new minimum amount being 951 600. The total value of the supplementary pension amount after the increase in the minimum and maximum amounts is 129 million. 900,000. lv. The number of social pensions for old age, the amount proposed to be increased to 170 BGN, is 61 200 pensions, the average of which is increased from 200 to 229 BGN and the total value of the additional cost of pensions under the proposed measure is 4 million. $800,000. lv. The number of disability pensions due to a total disease to be increased is 441 600 pensions and their average size increases by 50 BGN. From 338 to 388 BGN The total value of the additional cost of disability pensions due to a total disease is 68 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. The number of disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational disease, which will be increased by 14 600 and their average size will increase from 527 BGN. BGN 591. That's very brief. And as additional information to the proposed Draft Amendment and Supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u113	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Before I speak to you on the substance, I would like to address you frankly, I am outraged, we are looking at the fate of two million and poor pensioners, the fate of over 400,000 people who are receiving aid, the fate of the disabled, of the military invalids, of the disabled children, and the hall is empty. Were you not interested, gentlemen of Parliament, what will happen to these people, or have you forgotten what you swore the interests of the people are first? I apologize for this prelude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a well-known fact that the minimum pension is the product of a political decision That is why I am infinitely surprised, Minister, that you have deprived of 10 leva. people on a minimum pension. In Bulgaria there are 898 828 people on a minimum pension. These are people who have earned their service but have received little money, so their pension is minimal. And so far, they've been taking £50. as a supplement, but because of the 50 leva. They're put inside the pension, now they're gonna take £ 340. Just don't explain to me that you, with the funds of social assistance, will complement the money that will reach where? I apologize, Mrs. Sacheva, for being made up. This is not the real threshold of poverty in Bulgaria. The real poverty threshold, which should be 60% of the median income, should now be BGN 413, not next year, and next year should be BGN 451. However, this is the established poverty threshold anyway. Excuse me, receiving aid to the poverty line is a future uncertain event for many of these people for the simple reason that the Bulgarians have several principles that they have followed for centuries. The first principle in their lives is to provide a keremidka, to provide their own roof for their children. Therefore, at the time when I was young, and those who are now retired, were young, albeit panelies, although with loans we bought apartments such as this so as to ensure conditions for our children to grow up. The second principle of the Bulgarian is that his child should be studied. It is true that there was a time when Bulgaria was fifth in the world in quality of education, and now it is in the disgraceful 88th place, but anyway people were putting money aside for education. And the third principle of the Bulgarian is to have a piece of land in which not to plant flowers, but to plant peppers, tomatoes and potatoes, that is, something with which, if there is a problem, to feed his family. Well, Mr. Minister, you have just stated, and in the materials you have provided us with, that 432,000. people from the Bulgarian pensioners will receive benefits. However, I just said that there are nearly 900 thousand of them and I think that all Bulgarian pensioners are now looking at us and do not think that this is a conflict of interest because I am at the age of retirement......................... all Bulgarian pensioners are looking at us now because they expect a future safe event, i.e. to receive an increase in pensions. Because half of them are on a minimum pension, they should get a stable.. anyway it will be a political solution. It is not your patent, Mr. Minister, that pension income be equal or close to the poverty line, and that is the patent of the European Commission and Eurostat. However, in Europe, people first calculate the poverty threshold as they should and not reduce it and, secondly, I would like to remind you that the complementary income from a pension or the substitute income from a pension in Europe is at least 70% of what you received when you worked. If you live in France and Germany and have worked and received 1,000 euros, this is a frivolous example, you will receive 700 euros in pension, but if you live in the Nordic countries, you will receive 800 or 900 euros in pension. In Bulgaria the percentage is 35. We are the poorest, we are the lowest income and finally we have the lowest substitute income. So, let's take care of the Bulgarian pensioners, and instead of torturing them with social assistance payments, let's leave the social funds for those who really need them, and these are the military invalids, disabled children, disabled and their mothers, and make the minimum pension at least equal to the poverty threshold or 370 BGN, so that people can be sure that tomorrow whatever happens, if there is a crisis, whether it is going to be a horse, or if it will be inflation, or if it will be an economic crisis, they will get their pensions and receive them in one amount that is bearable. I say acceptable to Bulgarian conditions because if European pensioners are wondering which resort to go, Bulgarian pensioners are wondering how to buy bread or sugar or oil tomorrow. Because, it is true that inflation on average is 3%, but it is also true that the biggest appreciation is in the goods for the first need.. Oil has risen 40%, bread has risen between 7 and 10%, sugar, cheese, milk... All that not only the Bulgarian pensioners, but our children and the children of the poor families are using, has increased and there is nothing to be fooled and to think that inflation is temporary. No, ladies and gentlemen, inflation will go up. Of course, some of the revenues that the current government has made are from collection, but the others are pro-inflation, and the others are from lack of corruption, thank God. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think about how in the most elegant, natural and fiscal way, to resolve the issue with the Bulgarian pensioners. I am telling you, I very much thank Professor Gechev, who explicitly stressed that in Europe only one country and it is called Denmark, complies with the Maastricht criterion for a 3% deficit. What are we gonna do? To Catholics of the Pope, so we want to bring down the deficit to 3%?! All the rest of the countries take Spain - 11%, Germany - 7%, and so on - have already a deficit above, and it emerges, thank God, one year in which gross domestic product will grow. And remember one more thing: inflation will really grow, ladies and gentlemen, and it will affect the poorest, because we have the most, if not the second, we are more expensive electricity. 73% is more electricity, it is more expensive than in Germany. And there is one other thing: Bulgaria has the highest percentage of gray economy, ladies and gentlemen. According to the NRA, 53% of those working in our system, at least by September of this year, people receive a state pension, they have no other, from September onwards, thank God, women will also start receiving pensions from the capital fund, but it will be a small share. So remember that we have a cost-covering system and this cost-covering system, if not powered by insurance contributions, but it turns out that really either they don't pay, or everyone pays minimum wage, and under the table they get something else. So until we eradicate the gray economy, it won't be easy for us and the deficit in the DOO will grow. This is at the expense of taxes, it is at the expense of the renewal that we need to do in the future, so it is in our interest to take care of it in this direction as well. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we from "There is such a people" think that the minimum pension must be equal to the poverty threshold, whatever it is in this period, and let us apply the burden ratio per year, because it covers more pensioners, but we have a problem here too. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, if all pensioners have to wait 10 or 12 years to get the coefficient up 0.1%, because by 2018 it was 1.1, now it's 1.2, right, thank the government for speeding up this process, but it has to reach 1.5 at a very fast pace. At a very fast pace! You seem to forget that the social partners together with the previous government as early as 2015 had agreed to get to 1.5 quickly, only it didn't move. So, you really need what... Because both business and trade unions are the most secure indicators of the true state of affairs, and from time to time we will have to listen to them not because I come from a syndicate, but indeed they do. I think we should take care of an accelerated increase in the burden of one year of service, which in the next two years will reach 1.5. Thank you for your patience and I hope you understand me correctly. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Is there a wish for a line? I can't see. The next one is Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donev, the pandemic of COVID-19 significantly affected the life and health of Bulgarian pensioners. There is hardly any MP who does not share the need to work for decent old age for all the elderly in our country. Leaded by the fact that as one of the most vulnerable groups in Bulgaria they need the most support during a pandemic period, and given that the average cost of medicines for Bulgarian pensioners per month amounted to 56 BGN, the government with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov decided to pay 50 BGN. to all for the period of the declared exceptional epidemic situation in the country. Moreover, all Bulgarian pensioners who had pensions between BGN 300,01. to the poverty line of 369 BGN, received a single aid of 120 BGN. for food and other needs through the social support system, thus they were compensated for the 20% increase that people with a minimum pension from the beginning of 2021 received and whose pensions became BGN 300. I would also like to remind you, although we have been judged in election tricks, the aid of 120 BGN. was paid after the election and the supplement of 50 leva. was extended by the caretaker government. As can be seen from the distance of time and from what was exported as statistics by the National Statistical Institute, it is this money, which reached all Bulgarian pensioners, played a significant role in increasing consumption, which, in turn, is extremely important for the smoother passage through the crisis from a macroeconomic point of view. From 1 September to the end of 2021, more than 20 thousand women and men will start to receive a second pension, and we have made sure that the rules for its payment are adopted in time and that we ensure a fairer amount of the second pension by reducing the reduction ratio from state social security. I say all this because for the political party GERB care for pensioners has always been among our priorities, but also the justice and stability of the pension system have also been a mandatory condition for decision-making. The parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ fully shares the need to support the elderly in Bulgaria to continue because they continue to be among the most endangered people of the consequences of the pandemic of COVID-19. At the same time, however, we strongly oppose precisely the decisions on the problems of the elderly to be taken hastily, electionally, in a bidding position without the necessary estimates in the medium term, destroying basic principles of social security, demotivating the people in our country to provide their real income by putting the financial stability of the pension system on the table and creating prerequisites for increasing taxes in our country. The opinion of our parliamentary group is that the caretaker government has not been elected, is not empowered by the National Assembly and bears no clear political responsibility. It only performs the President's will. His task is to prepare elections and ensure a smooth transition to the election of a regular government. It is not acceptable for us for the caretaker government to propose strategic solutions for changing the pension model and to engage the state with increasing transfers from the state budget to the NSI budget. I remind you that the previous governments have followed a strict policy to reduce these transfers and reduce the dependence of the pension system on the state budget, and in the years before CIVID-19 we had achieved 37% of the budget of the NSI to depend on a transfer from our taxes. The proposal proposed by the caretaker government to increase the individual coefficient this year will cost 399 million. BGN, but next year will be 1 billion. 650 million. BGN and for 2023 and 2024 this budget will continue to increase with a sustainable growth of an average of 5 6% per year. Without clear estimates of the medium-term budget forecast, we have no confidence that the state will have such revenue and that we will be able to return to deficit levels before the crisis. We risk only years from now to face the dilemma of withdrawing new loans or raising taxes, as well as any additional revenue collected in the state budget, going only for pensions without being able to invest in other social and non-social policies. We also strongly oppose the proposals for a shocking raise of the minimum pension offered by other political parties. The argument is that this will reach the line of poverty and no Bulgarian pensioner will live under it, but it is somewhat untenable because the line of poverty is constantly changing. She's gonna stay at £369. only until the end of this year, and from the beginning of the next year will be BGN 413. Moreover, the sharp increase in the minimum pension would result in 50% of all Bulgarian pensioners having a minimum pension, which would in fact depreciate the insurance nature of the system. From an expert point of view, the office's proposal for a supplement from social support to pensions below the poverty line is more professional, but as far as it is also intended to remain of a permanent nature, the issues of the medium-term budgetary forecast remain even more effective. Will there be enough revenue in 2022, 2023, 2024 for this type of expenditure and whose political responsibility it is in the coming years to reduce social policy funds at the expense of pensioners? This will be inevitable, because the crisis will eventually end, we will be obliged to return to the reasonable levels of deficit under the European rules that we have agreed to comply with, but also, of course, on the other hand, this deficit should guarantee the lower deficit, should ensure the financial sustainability and stability of the state. We offer the supplement of 50 leva. for the time of the crisis to increase to 100 leva. and to preserve its temporary character by being bound by the duration of the pandemic of COVID-19 and the long-term strategic decisions on pensions in Bulgaria to be proposed by a regular cabinet, which is empowered by the vote of the Bulgarian voters. We believe that an update of the budget of state social security at this stage is not necessary, the proposal is more of an election nature............................................................................................. However, since such an update has been tabled, we would like to raise the issue of the ceiling of maximum pensions. For us the increase of this ceiling to BGN 1500. It is also unacceptable, because with the new rules, the number of people whose pensions will be limited will increase from almost 24 500 to nearly 36 000 people. We propose that the pension ceiling be dropped because it will be a powerful incentive for people with higher incomes to provide for their real income. In addition, the practice of the lack of a ceiling will be put to an end only for certain categories of officials in Bulgaria. It takes 22 million to drop the ceiling. lv. by the end of this year and around 110 million for 2022. In conclusion, the GERB-SDS parliamentary group will abstain on the proposed update of the state social security budget and in the period between first and second reading we will submit our proposals. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u117	I'm extremely surprised, Mrs. Sacheva. At least you know the formula for forming pensions, so nothing changes here, you just take one of the elements of whether you take the average social security income, or you take the burden of a year's service, that doesn't make a change in the pension. Secondly, let me remind you that since 2008 pensions have not been revalued! How long should the Bulgarian pensioners wait? What you are proposing, if not 50 100 BGN, I understand that colleagues from another parliamentary group offer 120 BGN, this is not serious! It's really populism because it's a future uncertain event. There's no money today! However, when the National Assembly votes and the pension goes according to the formula of the ratio of 1.35, will we change the insurance income? Because he is also very changed, but it covers fewer people than the pensioners, and that is why the government has adopted so that all pensioners can receive something and bring in your famous 50 leva. inside, that's why it took that order. [[Applause from IHN]] . But I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. You for a line? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u119	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, you have made a really unacceptable statement for a former social minister, claiming that the recalculation of pensions, the money for pensioners will damage other groups that need social support and social support, and by giving pensioners no money left for social activities. This is indeed inappropriate and purely cynical speech, especially from a former social minister, even more so that it is not true. Bulgaria is not the country in the European Union where public expenditure on pensions is the highest in Europe. On the contrary, public expenditure on pensions as a share of gross domestic product is below the average for Europe. The most money from gross domestic product we give to police, courts and prosecutors, but not to pensioners. Given that you have not been able to recalculate pensions for 13 years, given that 60% of the elderly live at risk of poverty and at risk of social exclusion, to oppose the recalculation of pensions with this percentage is really unfair and cynical to Bulgarian pensioners. My expectation is on the verge of three crises to unite at least in the support of the most vulnerable. You GERB are their biggest debtor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Third line. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u121	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Sacheva, I didn't usually mean to give you a line, but with this statement you made from the stands here, it is as if you want to clear the 12 years of GERB management because, sorry, but the current situation is largely due to this for the needy and, how can I say, unhaber decisions for these 12 years of GERB management. Now should I remind you, in the first government of the cabinet Borisov, when in violation of the Bulgarian legislation no Article was applied. 100 of the Social Security Code, that is, pensions have not been updated for three years! And if we assume that these three years have been under some 3% increase in pensions, in three years there are 9 percent of them! Think about what this is about. Then a number of other unreasonable decisions in the pension system. Instead of focusing on how to become more adequate pensions, you have constantly limited the proposals of the other parliamentary groups in the National Assembly until it comes to that extremely unreasonable decision, under the pressure of the........................... to raise only the minimum pension of 300 BGN, without touching all other pensions. And now, after these foolishly confused and confused decisions in the pension system, you are going out on the stand and criticising the proposals of the caretaker government, which we also do not like to the first degree, but we consider it to be a first step in the right direction and we will support it. And I suppose the caretaker government came to this after long accounts and calculations, as the only possible. We will try to propose between first and second votes some solution in the pension system for the adequacy of pensions, but not such as 100 BGN. Or 120 BGN, or five BGN for the pensioners, but let's still give it to someone who gives it to them. Let's cut to the chase and go straight to solving the problem and take the first step. Populism, we'll leave it for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the right to the back. Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Donev! Mrs. Zaykova, I'll address you first. I have great respect for your age and for the fact that you have been elected MP, but I do not agree with yours. You could and had the opportunity to form a cabinet and government and your policies to be able to implement them accordingly. [[crowding, noise and lines from IHN, applause from GERB-SDS]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I draw your attention to the fact that I said in my speech in case the minimum pension becomes 370 BGN, 50% of the Bulgarian pensioners or 1 million. $100,000. people in Bulgaria will have a minimum amount of pension, which will be very demotivating for people to continue to provide and will violate the insurance nature of the system. Regarding Mrs. Manolova's statement, Mrs. Manolova, it is good not only to be able to speak with pathos and with great zeal, but also to listen well. My speech was focused on the fact that we do not have any estimates of how this proposal will affect the medium-term forecast. And I told you, this year it's 399 million, next it's 1 billion. 650 million. I'm sorry to say this, but you're not usually interested in the future costs of your proposals, you're always interested in the moment and you're interested in chasing the moment, in a moment you can raise the ratings. However, I am interested in strategic decisions, I do not care about temporary ratings, and in this sense, if this proposal is to be worth 3 billion for example in 2024, I prefer to see it today, here and now, to ask where this money will come from then and how it will happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u124	That's where 3 billion came from for highways.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u125	Well, let's honestly tell the Bulgarian citizens that we intend to raise taxes, let's honestly say then that this proposal goes with raising taxes, because otherwise there is no way. Mr. Gokov, I'm going to ask you one last time. In 2009 at the beginning of the government of the Political Party GERB, the minimum pension in Bulgaria was 140 BGN, 2017. - BGN 175,70, 2021 is BGN 300. So your accusations that it was not working on raising incomes and pensions are not really justified by the facts and what you said would be a first step towards another recalculation of pensions is also false. So, rather, say: Do you give up on reclaiming the pensions, something you have fought for for for many years, or do you accept this proposal of the caretaker government, which we continue to consider with an election character? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u126	Thank you. Next to speak. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! After so many fairy tales, meetings and refusals to meet among the parliamentary groups, committee meetings, the need to update the budget, as if with little exceptions, is consensual. The need is based on very important things, such as financing measures to overcome the consequences of a fourth wave of horseback, which is to support people and families, support for business, increase the incomes of the most vulnerable groups, recalculate pensions, provide adequate support and so on. It turns out that a new migrant wave has to be met because of irresponsible foreign policy actions, and due to unreasonable domestic policy actions, we are also waiting for budget-declared expenditures for elections. It is clear that without an update, they cannot be spent, the ministers of the service have no right and legal basis to make these costs. It is no accident that the most funds in the update are aimed at the social sphere. The social protection system does not provide sufficient support to vulnerable groups such as children, young families, elderly people, people living below the poverty line, people with disabilities, people living in rural areas, Roma and so on. The provision of social services continues to be weak and their integration through social assistance and services is incomplete. The fact is that the rate of improvement of the living level of elderly people is seriously behind the improvement of the working age population. I don't know why society allowed the government of GERB during these 12 years to deepen the vulnerability of a large part of the Bulgarian people? In the adoption of the budget for 2021 there were not many solutions for the serious vices of the Bulgarian society, poverty and growing inequalities. Overall, in the 2021 budgets, there was no real action to reduce poverty and inequalities, to ensure a sustainable increase in income and to increase living standards. From the BSP parliamentary group we presented an alternative budget for 2021 with a number of decisions on these issues, but we were not heard. For me, the seriousness of the situation in the social sphere, and at a time of creating challenges, is the most important motive to support the update of this budget. It is clear to pain that in Bulgaria one of the countries with the highest proportion of people over 65 years and older, in 2019 47% of the population over 65 years and over lived at risk of poverty or social exclusion, while in the European Union this percentage was on average 19.4%. As age increases, the risk becomes even higher and for people over 75 years is now 53.4%, with an average of 20.4% for the European Union. The essential to improving the quality of life of people after retirement are pensions. In our country, the income of most adult Bulgarians is at least 90%, coming from social security, i.e. pensions. Today's pensioners are that generation that Bulgaria was building, along with this he was responsible for paying insurance, and notice, in sizes greater than today's, to provide the pensions of the then pensioners. For 20 years, however, there has been delays in some cases in the amount of pensions allocated before 2008, compared to those afterwards, and with an equal contribution to the insurance system. All because principles and regulations are being violated in the social security legislation in the policy of updating and indexing pensions. This led to the abandonment of pension incomes from growth of economic development, the increase of annual social security income and at the country's living level in general. Of course, we are aware that the update of pensions must be in line with the financial capabilities of the state social security budget and with the basic principles of the adopted social security legislative framework. This update opened a serious discussion on the proposed policies and on the mechanism of social spending. Whether to do so through the update of this budget, or through the next regular budget, because binding costs are being wagered, which will become sustainable over time and will be transferred to an increased amount for the next budgets. However, there are also urgent social costs, such as recalculating pensions and helping people below the poverty threshold and so on, which must be indisputable and should have them both in the update of this budget and be included in the draft budget of 2022 and further. On the topic of recalculating pensions BSP has a consistent policy. Mrs. Sacheva, this is my answer to your question. Even in this 46th National Assembly, on 21 July, we submitted the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, which provides for the recalculation of pensions allocated for employment, multiplied by the average income for 2018 and then the pension is determined under the terms of the Social Security Code. With the updated budget for state social security for 2021, the caretaker government proposes a different approach to recalculating pensions with the reasons that more people's contribution to insurance is being taken into account. This is the fairer, more logical and following principles of social security way, and so justice is achieved with regard to the contribution of pensioners, the motivation for young people to provide longer time and on their real incomes. Thus, the pension will replace a higher percentage of labour income and increase the adequacy of pensions to be allocated in the future. It is thus ensured that all 2 million. 80,000. pensioners will receive an increase in their income from the pension from state social security, with the average increase of one pensioner is BGN 64. Those are all valid motives that I accept. I have to point out that in many of its programming documents, BSP has recorded as policies for elderly people in order to increase confidence in the social security system the following things: periodic recalculation of pensions with current medium-term income and their annual update; removing the maximum monthly amount of social and health insurance income and the maximum amount of pension; increasing the contribution of the internship to the formula for the size of the pension; the coefficient for each year of insurance internship smoothly to be increased by reaching 1,5%; extending the existing flexible elements to promote longer stay on the labour market; all payments that are not related to the insurance contribution to be taken out of the State social security and borne by the state budget. I therefore state that the method proposed by the caretaker government to recalculate pensions corresponds to the consistent policy of BSP in the pension sphere and is contained in its programming documents and, I stress, as part of the proposed pension reform aimed at increasing the adequacy of pensions and increasing revenues in the budget of state social security. We accept this proposal as a step in the right direction to increase the adequacy of pensions, to promote continued participation of people on the labour market and to increase the rate of replacement of past labour incomes. This is a necessary but insufficient step. This proposal, although it increases personal pensions, does not increase the money received by pensioners, but only compensates for the 50 leva given because of the crisis, and not for all pensioners equally. The average increase of a pensioner may be BGN 64, but not for all. It is interesting in practice after recalculation how many pensioners will receive an increase below 50 BGN. And how much over 50 leva.; how many pensioners will remain with really calculated pensions under the minimum pension; what will be the number of pensioners receiving a minimum pension; how many of them will remain below the poverty threshold of BGN 369. for 2021 and below the poverty threshold of BGN 413 for 2022? We must state that such a recalculation proposed in this form, apart from its positive sides, there are also negative sides that are not to be ignored. Some of them are that it generates a higher degree of inequality and will deepen the differences between the pensions allocated before and after 2008. The pensions released before 2000 will receive at least an increase because people have retired under other legal conditions, a lower required retirement period, but instead a higher rate of insurance contributions. I think it was 28.8% before we started reducing it. Another vice is that categorical workers whose first- and second-grade internship is equalized to a third, except that they were once compensated for hard work conditions, with early retirement they will receive the greatest increase. In order not to dissolve the scissors between old and new pensions and not to require a new recalculation with an up-to-date insurance income, in the future art. 100 of the Social Security Code, the so-called Swiss rule by which pensions are updated each year, giving a burden to the average income for the previous year at the expense of inflation. By ratio, for example, from 50/50 to 75/25. Thus, pensions will be updated annually with a more up-to-date social security income. The proposal of the caretaker government provides for an increase in the maximum pension by just over 4%, which will become BGN 1500. Note that from 1 January 2021 it has grown by 20%, but there is no hint of raising the maximum insurance income, which remains on the modest 3000 BGN. When imposing the current pension system in 2000, it was intended that the maximum social security income should be equal to 10 minimum wages. Not to mention that a flat income tax is not normal to have at all a maximum social security income. BSP cannot give up the requested recalculation of pensions with the average income for 2018 because it is part of the consistent policy of BSP in the social sphere. Because the people who retired before 2008 will remain deceived, seeing that instead of bringing new and old pensions together, scissors open. In the first vote, we will support the update of the budget for state social security for 2021 proposed by the caretaker government, but on behalf of the group, I say that the proposed method of recalculation of the pension does not fully correspond to the views of the BSP and between the first and second votes we will make proposals, substantially increasing pensions. Despite the short period of time, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will make between the first and second votes a proposal for reclaiming pensions, such as all pensioners in the formulas under art. 70, para. 1 number 1,2, i.e. the weight of the insurance service, is replaced by 1.35. At the same time, all pensions granted before 1 January 2019 in the formula are replaced by the average income for 2018. From the Left we believe that this is a fairer and more adequate proposal. Thank you for your attention. We will support the update of the budget of state social security in the first vote. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Wishes for lines? I won't. The next speaker, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u129	Thank you, Madam President, as per the Rules of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At our attention, colleagues, a draft amendment and supplement to the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021 is presented. The project is presented by the Office. On this issue: whether there should be an update of the budget of the state social security, whether there should be an increase in the amount of pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners, we of the Ministry of Rights and Freedoms and we have a clear position and it is in the direction of looking for any opportunities in times of crisis, in conditions when inflation is rising, in conditions where consumer prices of goods of the first need are rising, we must clearly and clearly state to the Bulgarian pensioners that the income from pensions must be increased. The big question, however, is: how should this happen? How the 503 million additionally must be distributed so that 2 million can be distributed. 80,000. Nearly pensioners to be satisfied and to be able to respect the principle of justice? Because notoriously it has long been known in the social security system that completely fair solutions can hardly be achieved, what is important is to achieve less unfair solutions. That is the purpose of the proposed measures, at least in my opinion. It is clear from the analysis of the implementation of revenue in the budget of state social security that by the end of June the income from social contributions has been increased by 230 million. Notice, if you have all paid attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the report submitted by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2020, it becomes clear that in the crisis 2020, the increase in insurance income from social security contributions is 360 million in the crisis year by 360 million. That is why we consider from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms when we offer these additional 120 BGN. for all pensioners, we count on that by the end of the calendar year the income from insurance contributions to increase by at least another 200 million. You will see that this implementation will be a fact in the Review on the implementation of the budget of the DEA for 2021, which will be submitted next year. We are based on the fact that the European Commission revised its attitude towards the growth of the economy in Bulgaria to 4.6%. We are aware that 116 thousand more provided, as they are in the motives of the Bill and the increase of the average insurance income to BGN 1138, will enable these additional revenues. And on the basis of this extra income, Mrs. Zaykova, we offer what you'll hear in a moment, not on the basis of populism, not on the basis of some kind of competition, which is the most. There's no such thing! There are numbers, there are readings! A person who can read numbers can make reasonable and rational suggestions. That is why my request is to look at the proposal of the office, the proposal we are making, the proposal made by our colleagues from GERB, the proposal made by our colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria and in terms of the benefit of pensions, what Mrs. Manolova is doing for the benefit of pensions as a project all these are options for how to get out of this situation. And now the main question is whether the office has the right and the opportunity to propose strategic policies. Because in the previous discussion Mr. Katsarov said that we should only take into account the crisis situation and propose solutions until the New Year. It now turns out, however, that in addition to what we propose by the end of the year, we also propose strategic measures which somehow slip away from the essence of the discussion, because the main objective of the update is to resolve the issues within this budget. And for the next budget, for which political responsibility must be taken, there must be a clear political majority to assume political responsibility for a possible decision. We don't mind the office offering these solutions. It's pretty serious about their project, it's about all the pensioners and all the pensions. But the question that arises here is whether these 1 billion and 600 million next year, nearly 2 billion the following year, which are not foreseen in the three-year budget forecast, will be able to be met. This is the great drama of today's discussion. Otherwise, the MPs are entitled to choose between several options offered. Now, what does the office have to offer right now? Increase the service year internship ratio from 1.2 to 1.35, increase the minimum pension size, maximum social pension for old age. Now, however, see what underwater stones there are in this absolutely well-meaning proposal. Dear Mrs. Zaykova, listen carefully, I want to address you specifically. Why am I saying this? Because in just a few months we will be faced with the Bulgarian pensioners to give them an answer to the following few questions: The first question is: Before 2000, then the existing Pension Act enabled men and 25 years of insurance service to acquire pension rights for women 55 years and 20 years of service, respectively. Look what's happening. Now the conditions for retirement are far higher. The group who are retiring now or in the coming years, this coefficient will be multiplied on the basis of 37 years and the others at 20. We will re-open one pair of scissors. We must give an answer to the Bulgarian pensioners why we are doing this. There, you see what interesting things there are? Next, the security sector, the categorical workers. They have their so-called internship. The retirement conditions of the sector are, for example, 27 years of insurance service. However, the Defense and Armed Forces Act states that their internship turns 1 to 3. So with this, the new coefficient, they're going to be, for example, if you have 30 years of internship, 90 years will be updated. At one group, 20 years, the other group, 90 years. I am not such a complete populist to oppose the individual groups of Bulgarian pensioners, but these are questions the Bulgarian National Assembly must answer. This is the expert approach, not the political approach, not the populist approach. I'm saying this so we can make the best decisions. Therefore, we at the House of Rights and Freedoms suggest that these strategic issues should be addressed, whether there should be an update, or whatever it is, be resolved in a calm and not crisis environment. The Minister of Health announced yesterday that it extended the emergency epidemic situation by three months. Therefore, we propose in the last three months of this year, instead of this mechanism, which the office offers, every month the Bulgarian pensioners, on the basis of these estimates to receive an additional 120 BGN. for the month of October, for the month of November and for the month of December. That's 360 leva. by the end of the year we fit into this budget offered by the office, plus 200 million revenues, which I spoke about just now. That's one option. The National Assembly shall have the right to choose which option it deems appropriate. It's not populism, it's not a race in who's the best to offer the higher size. This is a proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on the basis of serious estimates. Next, the state social security budget for this year provides 447 million for the preservation of employment, which is included in the revenue part and in the expenditure part of the state social security budget and together with 600 million, which are in the budget of the "Unemployment" fund, form the financial resource that is to support employment. Under measure 60/40, nearly a billion and a half have been spent so far, 300,000 jobs have been reserved, just over 300,000, thank God. But we all know that there have been problems with the application of this measure. So what does the office offer now? These 430 million. 30 million for air transport and 400 million for business, go to the state budget. And, notice how they will be distributed with the mandate of the Council of Ministers! Dear ladies and gentlemen, for us from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Council of Ministers' statement means a model of the jeep. We distribute financial resources according to some discretion or with some agreement. We therefore insist that this money be in the budget of state social security, not someone who will be in the next SUV, be entitled to distribute this money at their own discretion. These are the notes we have on the State Social Security Budget Bill. We hope with reasonable and well-meaning proposals on the budget of state social security between first and second reading that Bulgarian pensioners will receive the support they need and the support they deserve. [[Applause and lines from DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u130	For the procedure please come in, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u131	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a procedural proposal to extend the hours until 6:00 if we can run out of point three. If we fail to run out of point three, I suggest that tomorrow, when the parliamentary meeting begins, we begin with the point with which we end today at the end of the day before 6 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u132	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Any other suggestions, gay? I won't. Please vote on the procedural proposal made by Mr. Karimanski to extend the working time until 6:00 p.m. until the end of item three on the agenda and if it is not exhausted, let's start with it the next day. They voted 147 MPs: 132, against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Let's move on. Line, Mrs. Zaykova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u133	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Dear Mr. Ademov, you know how much I respect you. And to your comfort, it's my fault that there's something I missed in my speech. There is a people who really propose to raise the pension, but the coefficient of 1.35 applies only to real and not to recalculate internship.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u134	That's not on the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u135	Yeah. It's my fault that I just missed it in my speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Zaykova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Ademov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u137	Thank you, Madam President! Mrs. Zaykova, you know that respect between us is mutual and has a long history. What is important is that in this Parliament, even in this 46th Parliament, there is a political will to change the amount of pensions. From now on, the question is how this will happen. It is true that there are different types of proposals, but the most important thing is that the National Assembly has the will to solve a large part of the problems of the Bulgarian pensioners. But I'm not gonna spare you anything I've said before. Let us not think that only with social security, only through the pension system, we can solve issues of poverty and social exclusion, because these are things that go into another column. The European Commission advises us to adopt a mechanism for guaranteeing minimum income. This is extremely important because minimum income can be guaranteed by different sources. One of the possible sources is pensions, but there are other possible sources. So let us stick to this recommendation of the European Commission and to the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights, because otherwise Bulgarian pensioners will not be satisfied with our decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. The next one is Mrs. Tsetska Bachkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Bulgarian citizens, unfortunately, do not feel that the pension system can provide them with decent old age and decent income. More and more this feeling continues to get lost. The reasons for this are not only the poor demographic situation, the unreformed system and the corruption in it. The reasons are also that the pension policy was characterized by a lack of consistency, predictability and sound logic in it. This lack of logic stems from the fact that a number of decisions were taken, politically justified and justified, such as the administrative determination of the minimum pension, such as the arbitrary determination of the ceiling of the pension and the distribution for election purposes of the allowances of BGN 50. on a tack. This largely led to a loss of confidence in Bulgarian citizens in pension insurance and a loss of motivation to provide for their real income. We will support the proposal of the Council of Ministers because we realize that this is a pathetic situation that the caretaker government is facing, and it stems from the decision of the previous government to distribute to the mudguard, beyond any logic, within the framework of the pension provision of these 50 levs, which they do not belong to in this way at all. We will support the proposal of the caretaker government because for the first time it shows this logic that, in fact, the increase in pensions and the amount of pension received must depend on the social contribution of each citizen. What we also support is the additional support for pensioners to reach the poverty threshold through social assistance and not through the social security system, because we believe that this is the right approach, which does not disrupt the foundations of the pension system. However, I would like to make the request here that we have a very clear programme with regard to pensions. We have always stated that the pension system needs modernisation and reform and I will say why. The Bulgarian pension system currently does not take into account the new conditions of the labour market, flexible forms of employment, does not take into account the mobility of Bulgarian citizens and the fact that the work life of a citizen can flow to different points of the world. If this is well regulated within the European Union, there are significant problems with third countries. We also believe that for this scissors between old and newly released pensions, which we are all talking about, a solution should be found once and for all, and it should be corrected as much as possible, so that, from now on, any decision to update pensions can be predictable, there can be consistency. I'm gonna finish this. We would like this debate on reform and modernisation of the pension system to be held by a stable parliament with a working government and a stable majority. Then we will be very actively involved with proposals for reform of the pension system. At the moment, in the limited time we have, we will support the proposal of the caretaker government so that the Bulgarian pensioners can support all Bulgarian pensioners, which is important, in times of crisis. Finally, I would like to add to this the pensions are low, but let us not forget, colleagues, that pensions depend on the income we receive. Everyone in this room can bid, there are likely elections, anyone can join the bidding for a minimum pension, for dropping the ceiling, for an update, but eventually these pensions will have to pay for working people. This is the model in Bulgaria, so real growth of pensions can be achieved by ensuring real growth of income through better productivity of labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Bachkova. Is there a line? I won't. Will you have a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u141	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! From the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! At least in terms of support to the most important Bulgarian pensioners, in this House an agreement can be reached and the debate will be directed precisely in this direction................. to finally support the proposed update by the service cabinet and stop the humiliating genocide that our parents, the elderly people of Bulgaria are subjected to. Two million. 92,000. pensioners half, nearly 1 million get a minimum pension of 300 BGN. This, along with the allowance, makes them living at risk of poverty, at risk of social exclusion, because the funds they receive do not even reach the poverty line of BGN 369. Adding another 230 grand. pensioners who live and receive pensions up to 350 BGN, all this outlines a sad picture of the lifestyle of the elderly, of the elderly generation in Bulgaria. In the current situation, when inflation gallops, official appreciation, according to National Statistics and BNB, life will reach the end of this year 3.5%. But we all realize that the official basket of Statistics is much wider than the retirement basket. The main food products rose to 40%, the main household goods too. Adding electricity prices, heating, hot water, water, pensioners are in a situation on the eve of three crises...................................................................................... That's why in our opinion, stand up BG! It is not only fair but must be compensated for the incomes of the elderly and it is imperative that this happens during the benefit of pensions if the proposed approach by the office can be called an accurate recalculation, but in all cases it is one thing compared to the previously significant increase in pensions. And here, ladies and gentlemen, no excuses and no accounts for the fact that, you see, the budget can't afford it, there's not enough money in the budget of the DEA, it's incorrect and it's not true. Because compared with public expenditure on pensions in the European Union, the average of them are 11.6% of gross domestic product, Bulgaria gives the pensioners a shameful amount, even compared to the gross domestic product under 8.5%, against the average of Europe 11.6%. In practice, elderly people get really unfairly little for the work they have done in the years ahead and are left in the poorest country to live the most miserable, compared to the elderly in other European countries. This comparison must be made and I think it is fair to sound out of this tribune because we are Europe's top police expenditures, the prosecution's office, a court as a share of gross domestic product. So for power structures we can be first, and for pensioners we claim that we are giving a lot, and this is far below the average level of European countries. However, this injustice will now be multiplied on the eve of the upcoming crises, and our appeal to all parliamentary groups is indeed to support as a first step towards justice to recalculate pensions, the office's proposal for recalculation. However, the question is whether, as this proposal is made, it is fair enough for all pensioners. There is a 12.5% average increase in pensions, or this is 64 BGN. average increase in all pensions, the minimum pension will become 340 BGN. In a similar approach there will be pensioners and they will be not tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands, which will remain with 10 levs. less in the purse than the money they've received so far with the 50 levs. anti-corrosive agents. That can't be allowed. There shouldn't be a single pensioner who gets even less than he's ever gotten before. Because no one will believe that we are really recalculating pensions and seeking support and justice for the elderly. Therefore, our proposal is for the minimum pension to reach the line of poverty - BGN 369 or BGN 370, as proposed. This is indeed the fair decision and there will be no adult person who receives less than November 1 compared to what he received in September. It is also proposed that labour pensions related to the minimum pension, which we support, should also be increased in the draft of the caretaker government, but we believe that these 13.3% are too few for people living with minimal income. As for the social pension for old age and social pension for disability, ladies and gentlemen, can a single adult survive with BGN 170, as proposed? Can a disabled child who was 19 years old, but with this his needs have not changed, live with BGN 170.? We from Stand up BG! We're coming! We're going to make proposals. I hope that such proposals will also be made by the other parliamentary groups, and indeed we are ready to have talks about the most vulnerable to receive support in a situation of three crises, inflation, heavy autumn and heavy winter. The hall tells us: if we have readings, we've made specific readings. The office's offer will cost 133 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. the state budget Our offer will increase by 21 million. lv. The monthly cost of pensions or at the end of this year will require 462 million. lv. I believe that the money of Bulgarian citizens imported through taxes and through insurance should go to the Bulgarian citizens, so the number of 462 million. lv. support for pensioners is completely fair. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Can you extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u142	That's exactly what I was going to ask you. Please increase the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u143	Thank you. With regard to the different proposals that are made, for a supplement plus 100 leva, plus 120 leva, we from We will support every single proposal that will give more money to the pensioners. Because we think that's not enough, and that's fair. But our proposal is, after the minimum pensions are updated to 369 BGN, the possibility of 50 BGN. additional anti-coffee money to be assessed and included in the state budget. Totally right is Mrs. Zaykova, who says that the compensation for the elderly through social support is a future uncertain event, because here also let the minister recognize whether all pensioners who will have a minimum pension of 340 BGN will receive social support up to 369 BGN. It won't be like that! This will depend on the income in the family, on whether the pensioner works, on whether he is 65 years old, on whether he has any property and some fork in the village. So the approach is 369 leva. minimum pension and if possible additional 50 leva. by the end of this calendar year. Dear colleagues, yes, the medium-term forecast, as GERB says, will certainly cost more than 3 billion. BGN, but 3 billion. lv. You have given in the conditions of illegal contracts only to the Automamistrails, money given forward for projects that cannot even be launched. Once there's 3 billion. lv. For highways without a project, there's 3 billion. lv. for Bulgarian pensioners in the medium term. Yes, with our irrational behavior, Bulgarian governments have driven our children abroad, let us now, with unreasonable behavior, not to expel the elderly, our parents! [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. We move on to Pawnita Petrova from There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the issue of updating the budget for state social security in the current economic and upcoming new pandemic situation is more than necessary. The supplement of 50 BGN. is a temporary measure to support all pensioners and does not solve permanently the problem of improving the adequacy of pensions for the work, the problem of humiliatingly low pensions of Bulgarian pensioners against the poverty line and the inability of a large part of them to meet their most pressing costs for food, medicines and bills. From this point of view, it is no longer necessary to postpone the resolution of this pressing issue with the motive to wait for the formation of a regular government, because no delay can be justified by any motives. The proposed mechanism for the recalculation of pensions in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Act, which should enter into force from 1 October, is the more correct approach in terms of putting the emphasis on the years of service time, that is to say on the contribution by increasing the burden of one year of insurance service, changing the ratio in the formula for calculating pensions from 1.2 to 1.35 At the same time, as the update increases the minimum pension for full internship and age from 300 to 340 BGN, i.e. the approach is complex, taking into account the social determinists, which also deserves a positive assessment. However, the main weakness and injustice in the proposed increase of the minimum pension for retirement and age is that a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners again remains below the poverty line, all the more so that its real dimensions even now exceed those officially announced. This also means that the poorest pensioners will receive 10 BGN. less of what they received in the last months with the allowance of 50 leva, which has already been said in this hall. The government's counterargument here is that precisely these poor pensioners will be helped to the poverty line through the social assistance system in order not to burden the social security system. Yes, but this is not quite the right approach, because this does not offer a lasting solution to the problem of the poorest pensioners, because the aid still has a temporary and periodic nature, unlike the permanent nature of the substitute income from the pension, which creates greater security for its users. Last but not least, I do not know what arguments we would explain to people who have worked their whole lives, were in the social security system and contributed to its normal functioning, that their work was not worthy and we will take them out of the social security system in part, sending them to the welfare line. Here is the question: how many of them will go to seek social assistance at all in order to ensure a minimum standard of living on the poverty line, feeling the humiliating situation of the situation in which they are placed, or because of health problems and problems in the movement, given that a large part of these pensioners are from the highest age group, that is, social exclusion will be again present. In view of everything set out by the "There is such a people" we believe that the increase of the minimum pension should take place through the social security system, covering the officially declared level of the line of poverty at the time, which guarantees the security and continuity of the respective substitute income from pension rather than through the social support system, which would again put the Bulgarian pensioners who have worked at their working age and have met all the requirements of the system at the time at which, in the disadvantaged and degrading situation, to rely on social benefits. Therefore, by supporting at first reading the Bill in this form, after we receive the relevant financial estimates and specific parameters, from "There is such a people" we will draw up and submit before its retrial the proposals for changes that reflect the optimal version of an update of pensions, so that the minimum pension covers the line of poverty and at the same time ensure sustainability of the budget of state social security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there lines? I won't. We're moving on to the next entry for a statement by Mrs. Galya Zhelyazkova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u147	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! Today, in this particular situation, we are obliged, as MPs, politicians and people, to realise the responsibility we bear. It is precisely because over the years we have proved that we are reasonable, that we do not accept a government which is not broadcast by a parliamentary majority to define and propose policies for which it will not be responsible and which it will not implement. We are currently looking at the office's proposal for the update of the state social security budget, which undoubtedly affects the most vulnerable group in our society. Unfortunately, however, pension-related topics have always been used and used over the years by politicians. This is evidenced by the proposal for a change in the pension model in the election situation we are in. They aim only and only to work for the campaign of the presidential candidate who proposed the sole caretaker government. Each and every one of us, I hope, realizes that elderly people need real and quality support, one that will be guaranteed and sustainable, in line with the fiscal policy of the state and the possibilities of the treasury. Surely there is no MP who does not want the income of pensioners to increase, to guarantee them decent old age, but it is extremely important that this happens thoughtfully, in a calm and, once again I say, an election situation. The pension system needs careful and consistent action in order not to achieve a greater imbalance in it, and it is also burdened with new expectations. We want people to get higher incomes and live better, and that is why our role is to ensure stability in the country. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we have always worked towards raising incomes. Realizing that over the years, most of the elderly have fallen victim to the system, I think we should seek and achieve maximum justice for each one of them. The missionaries are the most endangered by the CIVID 19 pandemic. However, let us not forget that many of you denied the risk of this virus. As a political force, which in recent years guarantees stability in terms of government management, we have managed to achieve a reduction in the deficit of the pension fund, and what is being offered to us will again lead to its increase. We do not have a real account of the update in a medium-term budget forecast how it will affect time. Are the funds guaranteed for the years ahead because this is important? We can't promise today and we can't fulfill it tomorrow. We come back to the most important question, and it's who's responsible? We do not trust the people who propose these changes, although they blamed us for the supplement of 50 levs. for all the pensioners we introduced in connection with the pandemic. She went on and on after us, which means she's not as bad as she was originally called. At this point, it is only realistic for us to continue this supplement, to increase its size in order for the elderly to be prepared for the current wave of COVID 19. We absolutely do not support the proposals of much of the parties to raise the minimum pension with the motive of poverty. More than once it has been said in this House that the line of poverty is not a constant quantity and it changes if this year is one amount, next year it will be 413 BGN. We therefore believe that the proposals are written on the basis of extracting purely political dividend and PR from some people. From the group of GERB-SDS we insist on discretion. The long-term decisions on the pension system in Bulgaria must be taken by those who have received the trust of the people, and we will therefore abstain from the proposals for updating the budget for state social security. Finally, I would like to stress that we all appear at the elections with our proposals for policies and ideas for the country's development. The people supported us because we work, we develop, and we don't lie to them. During the last two campaigns we have widely explained and presented our views on the pension system, and they are: annual update, reaching a minimum of 600 BGN. an average pension, dropping the pension ceiling, as well as providing an opportunity to support elderly people on all lines of the state and social assistance. But that can't happen right now. The only thing that can happen is stability and responsibility, something that is currently not seen by either the caretaker government or those who said it would be the change. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Will anyone else have another statement from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Capon, if you think you can fit in 16 seconds for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u149	Madam President, I will try to cope, as Mrs. Zhelyazkova asks who is responsible. No office can make an increase in pensions without the National Assembly. We are responsible here in this room with our voice!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Capon, you've moved into the 14 seconds for a line. Let's move on. Will there be another speech from the BSP for Bulgaria? I won't. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. Mr. Martin Dimitrov "Democratic Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u151	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We heard interesting things today. I am beginning with the fact that from the "Democratic Bulgaria" we will support this budget at first reading all three budgets, but there are several very important issues that deserve attention. First of all, it was explained to us here that it was very basic to give 50 leva. The pensioners by March, notice, this year was envisaged, and when an update was made for all, which does not depend on the will of one person or any subjective decision, it was already bad. I mean, it's good to give while you think something's going on and you have a political benefit of 50 BGN. It was not a problem, but when there is a recalculation of all pensions, it creates problems for the system. The situation is even more fun because of this tribune the same people said the following thing: this recalculation increases the average pension by 65 BGN, they offer to be increased by 100 BGN, but they say so: this recalculation creates a risk of increasing taxes and their 100 BGN. No! This had been explained, which is a great economic thought and deserves to be studied separately. That's a great thought, ladies and gentlemen! So they increase by 100 leva. a month's pensions, this did not pose a risk of tax increases. What's the reality? The reality, colleagues, is this. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" are against any increase in taxes. Why? Because it's against the interest of the pensioners. We need high growth, Mr. Minister of Economy, and with high growth comes the increase in pensions. High growth goes through the preservation of low taxes and those who in 12 years have not reduced any important tax, and we know them. We know who they are, and they know who they are, and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u152	And knowing who they are, what should we say? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u153	They know, they know. There's nothing to mention. Why is increasing the individual coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35 a right-hand solution? This is a right-wing measure, because the more you work, the higher the pension you get, the more you encourage people who are currently working to work more to get a higher pension, not to equalize the pensions, as some offer a... worked or didn't work in the same way, and the goal is that by more working, you get a higher pension wage. It is a right-wing decision and it is worth supporting. Otherwise, we have heard of any amount of money that this measure would cost. Our calculations show that for 2022 it will be 1 billion. 650 million and 2023 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes I'm saying this clarification because we've been listening here for two billion, and more, and other calculations. The other very important thing is that what is now being proposed concerns all pensioners to the last, to the last pensioner, while some other decisions that were being proposed concern half of the pensioners Well, how do you explain that to them, people? You can't explain it to them. So better is the measure that concerns all pensioners who will receive an average of 65 BGN. for all the higher pensions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] All right, all right. And for next year, of course, we need to create... we will see now whether there will be, or there will be no government, we will find out. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS]] , on this issue we will have an answer soon, and hence it will depend on 2022 and so on what decisions will be made. Mr. Minister, there are a few things that are not fair. One is that the actual internship should be increased, not recalculations. That's just not fair. One rule cannot apply to one Bulgarian citizen, another one can have a recalculated internship, and each year of this internship can be multiplied by 1.35. This cannot be so, it is not fair and it is right between first and second to correct this issue, because it is simply not fair. It will be so that for one group of pensioners there will be a very serious increase, and for another group who have worked more, it may be that they have worked more than these people, the increase will be less. Well, how do you explain it to them, what are you gonna tell these people? This is simply not fair, and it should be corrected. When we talk about reforming the pension system, justice must be an exceptional and fundamental criterion. Colleagues, we will support these proposals, we will try to correct the shortcomings that exist, and for me this is the end of populism, which began by a party, to give 50 leva each. To the pensioners, now they want to give 100, and others want 120, but I won't mention them, but there are. But there are those! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm saying there are, not that they're in the room, but there are, I said, so we're putting an end to populism and today we're making a fundamental decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u155	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, so that the disaster does not come, only one more to take the floor. I would like to say a few things with regard to proposals for addressing state social security in relation to the guiding principle on which we will look at the proposals between the two readings, including we may do some, assuming that at first reading we will support our government's proposal. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS: Our Government!]] The first basic principle, when considering the proposals for pensions, will be how many pensioners are affected by these measures in a positive direction? So, if one proposal concerns less and another proposal concerns more pensioners, we will support proposal number two. The second principle will be to what extent the proposed changes will contribute to Mr. Ademov very well said: to less injustice? Because we cannot yet seek more justice in this system, there are too many problems in it, but to less injustice in the system and, therefore, based on our assessment, this proposal, which leads to less injustice, involves large differences between people who retired at different times, but nevertheless worked the same thing, having the same work experience, not having great differences, we will try to support those who seem fairer to us. But we think that just handing out money to a cock just because a person has lived to a certain age does not fully respond to the understanding of justice. Thirdly, and this is very important, and it is related to the far-reaching perspective of repairing the serious defects that we have in this system, which I have long tried to call retirement, it is a system for ensuring the income of elderly people in Bulgaria, because only one part is actually pensions of this, we will support proposals in the direction of becoming clearer and clearer the difference between this part of the income of Bulgarian adults, which arises on the basis of pension insurance and, another part of the income that we as a people give to our adults, which arises on the basis of social policy and is actually social support and social payment. And it should be clear, because when the worker makes the bill for his life, it should be clear to him what he will get if he works more and contributes more, and it should be clear to him that if he fails or does not wish to receive some support again, but it will be strictly defined in terms of social policy and will not be called a pension because it will not arise on the basis of pension insurance. We hope, over time, God willing, that we have time to work towards really straightening out the serious defects in this system with which we provide the old age of our mothers and fathers, because at the moment it is indeed very defective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Are there lines? For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u157	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When you speak at the end and, naturally, such competent people have spoken, there are few arguments left that you can say or new things. I'd like to draw attention to a few things. Mrs. Sacheva noted that she is very concerned about the budget. Well, Mrs. Sacheva, we have offered to reduce the subsidy of the parties to be one lev, this money will enter the budget, we will help the budget to go to social aid, why don't you support us? Secondly, when it comes to levelling pensions, it is right to do so and we will support the budget, I and the Commission have said that we should strive to reduce the difference of 70% replacing income to the current 32. This is the right step, and with this step you have to move forward. It's very important, because then all those who said them for bumps, for insurance, if the bills are done, if you're provided at £600. at 30% for income, and at BGN 1500. And by doing it with 70% replacement income, very well any one can do the math of what it's going to be. This is a tiny but correct step in the right direction. Finally, because there are different theories about the reduction of the income of those who have had less of two, by three, I would like to recall one such sentiment: a people who do not pay their own army will pay to a foreign army. "Now that we cannot compare the work at the institute with the work of these boys who were in Kerbala, there is an immigration crisis ahead, the people who will be in the cold, on the border, how to value it in the same version with the people who will sit warmly in the office? People, you have to touch very carefully, very carefully, because now in the Bulgarian Army with the soldiers who are 800 BGN, there is a shortage. This is one of the few privileges that drives them, you have to make very precise estimates.. for which categories, for which to touch these, because the other will be just populism and these numbers that are left will be very, very unoccupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Minister, would you like to share something?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The debate regarding the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act showed once again the fact that the quality of life of the Bulgarian pensioners is provided through the income from pension. It does not matter what this pension income will be, and therefore the debate was focused on the minimum amount of pensions. [[Noise.]] Indeed, the amount of pension, as proposed by the caretaker government, to be increased from 300 to 340 BGN. and the proposals that he was made to be promoted to the poverty line, which for this year is 369 BGN, shows to what extent poverty and inequalities in this part of the Bulgarian population are in depth, but shows something else of a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners, those who will be at a minimum amount of pension, and they will receive over a million and 600 thousand, that regardless of their work, the insurance income on which they have provided and the duration of the internship on which they have contributed insurance contributions, i.e. their participation in social security, they will receive the same income that will replace their income from work, their income from work. For some who are on a minimum pension, this rate of substitution will be above 50 - 60 - 70%, for others it will be less than 35%. This brings an additional injustice and inequality into the group of these pensioners. And the one who worked and provided for 15 years, and the one who worked and provided for 40 years will get the same amount of pension. Regardless of what you decide to be, they will receive the minimum amount of the pension, which is unfair in terms of their different participation in the insurance system, their participation in the provision. Indeed, what we propose with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law of State Social Security for 2021 adheres to the basic principles set out in the Social Security Code and does not discriminate in any way and does not oppose one group of pensioners of another group of pensioners. This is the project, which enables all pensions to be increased by an average of 12.5%, various other pensions that are derived or which depend on minimum pensions, including the social pension for old age, to also be increased by 14.3.. 13.3%. This is the fair option, which covers absolutely all the pensions currently granted and paid in Bulgaria. The introduction into various nuances of the use of the social security burden of a year internship with a new average social security income in the formula for the recalculation of pensions will lead to a massive increase in the first cost needed for the recalculation of pensions will bring more injustice, as part of pensions will be recalculated and will be increased by a lower amount pensions, which have been allocated before 2018 or 2019, will be increased by a relatively larger amount. This increase, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it will not affect much of the pensions that are at the expense of the state budget, the pensions that are currently at a minimum amount, and this will lead to damage of the lowest income group of the Bulgarian pensioners. Any additional and other interference in the system will distort it even more, disrupt the forecastability and ensure predictability, be able to plan the cost, ensure us to pay our pensions properly, guarantee us motivation in the people who are currently in insurance who pay through their insurance and taxes pensions to the current pensioners. Any unreasonable interference in the social security system will lead to the tide of this group of Bulgarians working at the moment, with income below the national average. This will be demotivating for them to continue to provide real income, to seek qualification and requalification, to be able to take up more quality and income work respectively, to aim for income from work that brings them more income and, accordingly, higher social security contributions. So very carefully you have to handle the matter in social security. Any mixing of social assistance, solving poverty problems through social security and through the pension system will lead to even greater neglect of the principles laid down in the first members of the Social Security Code. Therefore, our proposal, as well as all the parliamentary groups, is that the principles and laws that apply and apply to social security should be applied in the social security system. All that leads to the fight against poverty problems, to the removal of elderly people from poverty, to go through the social assistance system where it is and where in all European countries a large part of them have been mentioned here, Germany, France, including Scandinavian countries, poverty problems are solved through the social assistance system. Poverty among Bulgarian pensioners cannot be solved because they are mixed through the social security system, through the pension system, because we mix the two systems and redirect funds with another source to a system that should be financed by social security contributions. The problems of Bulgarian pensioners, especially young people who are currently working, will be solved with the longer participation in the labour market, with higher incomes and insurances on real incomes on higher incomes, so that one can be obtained according to the corresponding coefficient of replacement of the income from a pension compared to the income from a salary. Otherwise, if we mix the two systems of social assistance and social security, there will be a hybrid that will not be beneficial and very difficult to repair afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're running out of debate here. We are going to vote at first reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act for 2021, No 46-102-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 197 MPs: 148 against 1, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, in view of the next difficult task that we have on our budget, I announce a 15-minute break. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u161	Colleagues, we continue with: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Please have the President of the Commission report on the draft. Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u162	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are in this Chamber! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. At a meeting held on 24 August 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by Asen Vassilev Minister of Finance; Professor Boris Grozdanov Chairman of the Fiscal Council; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Minister Asen Vassilev, who stressed that the proposed update of the state budget for 2021 reflects more favourable than initially set estimates of revenue and aims to secure the necessary financial resources to address the risks of a new wave of the pandemic from COVID-19 in autumn, securing funds for the normal functioning of certain budgetary systems, including the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Interior and others. The Bill also provides for changes in the budget relations. The State budget transfers that correspond to the proposed changes in the respective budgets of state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 are taken into account. The macroeconomic forecast for 2021, updated in July by the Ministry of Finance, reflects the current development of the national economy as well as the changes made to the international environment. Expectations for the development of the world economy have been raised, with global economic growth already expected to reach 5.5%. The economic indicators at the end of 2020 and at the beginning of 2021 show great adaptability of businesses and households to work in physical distance, which is reflected in better than expected economic dynamics despite serious restrictive measures. The recovery of global demand, the activation of the vaccination process in the leading economies and the expectations of reaching a long-term solution to the health crisis, along with the significant fiscal packages announced in size to deal with the situation, are the main factors for positive revision in the global economy forecast. The assumptions for the European economy are reduced compared to the autumn forecast, but the change is due to good economic performance at the end of 2020 and, respectively, the lower annual decline and the higher base in the past year. The European Union's economy is expected to grow by 3.9% in 2021. After the first quarter of the year, economic activity is restored in the second quarter and is expected to speed up in the second half of the current year. Main macroeconomic indicators of the updated macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance for 2021: - Gross domestic product. In 2021, real GDP growth is expected to increase 3.5% due to improved expectations for domestic demand dynamics. Household consumption increased by 2.8% in the first quarter with initial expectations of a decline due to restrictive measures imposed for the spread of COVID-19. In the following quarters, household consumption will increase, which is expected to lead to an annual growth of 3.6%. Investments will remain depressed due to the still high uncertainty. Labor market. The growth of the number of employees in the economy was estimated to 0.3% and the average annual unemployment rate to 5.3%. Despite improved expectations for GDP growth during the year, the correction in the dynamics of the employed is towards lower growth than the previous forecast, while the unemployment rate is slightly increased by 0.1 percentage points. Despite the adjustments in the forecast, employment expectations in 2021 are linked to maintaining positive dynamics, which will be due to the beginning of the recovery of the economy in 2021, with the annual increase in employment being shown particularly clearly in the third and fourth quarter of the year. Inflation. At present, expectations are for a stronger appreciation of oil and non-energy raw materials in 2021 than assumptions in autumn. The increase in the overall level of consumer prices is expected to accelerate to 3.3% at the end of 2021, comparing expectations in the autumn forecast to inflation at the end of the year of 2.8%. Annual average inflation in 2021 is expected to be 2,0%. The reasons for the projected higher estimates of revenue for 2021 are, on the one hand, the improvement in a large proportion of macroeconomic indicators compared to those forecast since autumn 2020, which is also confirmed by the updated macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance and, on the other, the efforts of revenue administrations to raise revenue collection and combat tax crimes, smuggling, undeclared income and others. Estimates of revenue based on the updated macroeconomic forecast outline the re-execution of estimates to the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, which is linked to positive development in domestic consumption, imports, exports, energy prices, growth of employee compensation and other key indicators that have a positive impact on the revenue side of the budget. The projected improvement in revenue from the state budget amounted to 1.3 billion. BGN, which represents 1.1% of GDP, with the basic taxes in the updated estimates of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 being as follows: 1. from value added tax the increase is 800 million; 2. from the income tax of natural persons the increase is 300 million; 3. from corporate taxes. The increase is 200 million; 4. net reduction in other tax revenue items of 27,2 million lv. due to changes in tax administrations' estimates of projected revenue in the Annual Plan. In the part of the non-tax revenue on the state budget, an increase of 30.7 million is reflected. BGN, including 25 million under the central budget from the overexecution of the revenue from state fees due to old debts of the water companies under the Water Act. Revenue from social security funds budgets, which are reflected in the total revenue under the Consolidated Financial Framework, is also expected to be higher by more than 0,3 billion. BGN, or 300 million. BGN, which represents 0,3% of the estimated gross domestic product. In addition, a positive impact on revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme is also expected to be higher than planned revenue from the National Fund for Reconstruction and Sustainability for 2021, which is due to the increase in the amount of pre-financing from 10% to 13%. For the purposes of the calculation of the advance, the maximum amount provided for Bulgaria under the grant scheme of the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism was used, and this revenue is expected to be received in December 2021. This increase is reflected in the improvement of the estimates in the part of revenue from aid and donations under the consolidated fiscal programme for 2021 amounting to around 400 million. lv. Those main risks to the implementation of updated tax revenue forecasts for 2021 are related to possible deviations in the macroeconomic assumptions used, the degree and speed of economic recovery in the country and our foreign economic partners, as well as the development of the COVID-19 pandemic during the period until the end of the year. Risks regarding pre-financing under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism are linked to a potential delay in approving the plan for Bulgaria and shifting the first payments for 2022. In order to secure a resource to continue the measures currently in force, new measures, and to cover a shortage of funds in certain budgetary systems, the estimates under the Bill provide a resource of 1, 191,0 million. lv. (0,9% of the estimated GDP), which is separate from the contingency and/or emergency reserve, the allocation of which is detailed in § 1 concerning art. 1, para. 5 of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. In addition to the central budget, funds of 25,0 million are provided. lv. for the financing of investment projects in the sector "Water management" at the expense of the overexecution of revenue from fees, fines and penalties under art. 196, para. 1, t. 1 et c. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. under the Twining Project MK 18 IPA FI 03 20 with the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which is at the expense of revenue received in connection with the implementation of the Project. Therefore, the expenditure on the state budget amounted to 1 216.4 million. lv. (1,0% of projected GDP). The allocation of expenditure in different directions with the corresponding indicative estimates shall be as follows: 1. Additional costs for business support and employment programmes. In order to address the adverse impact of COVID-19 on the economy, it is envisaged to provide funds for business support and employment programmes up to 400,0 million. lv. Business support is imperative to continue until the end of 2021 in order to preserve the existing employment of workers and employees by providing financial resources to employers from the sectors concerned and economic activities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 2. For the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the additional funds provided by the Law are intended for measures and social support of the rightful persons and families in order to avoid social tensions in the complex epidemic and economic environment in the country. The funds amounted to up to 222,4 million. BGN, with indicative distribution by main directions is as follows: - 34.8 million. lv. For the provision of a new target measure to compensate for the low amount of income of the most vulnerable age group of pensioners who do not work and the amount of pensions they receive together with the compensations and supplements to them does not exceed the poverty line, which for 2021 is BGN 369. Due to legal constraints at this stage, texts regulating the terms and conditions for granting the monthly financial support to pensioners for 2021 are proposed by the Draft Law. The aim is to support pensioners as the most vulnerable group to prevent them from falling into extreme poverty. - 30.0 million. lv. In order to cover the costs of the payment of monthly targeted aid in the event of a declared emergency situation or the declared exceptional epidemic situation of families with children up to 14 years of age for the period October-December 2021, on the basis of an expected continuation of the exceptional epidemic situation and the preservation of the average number of families supported during the previous autumn-winter period of the CIVID-19 crisis. - 85,6 million. lv. For the provision of the costs of targeted heating aid, with an expected increase of around 17% in the number of consumers for the season 2021/2022, up to 333 000 users of the aid at a fixed monthly amount of the aid of BGN 104,71 and for the increase of the price of energy carriers as from 1 July 2021. - 72.0 million. lv. For costing under the mechanism personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act in view of the increasing trend in the number of users up to 600 000 monthly from the beginning of 2021, with an average monthly number of users of 36 500 and according to the average number of hours per month per user, the increase of the minimum wage of 610 BGN. £650. and according to legislative changes made to maintain the coefficient of 1.2 of the minimum hourly salary for 2021 and to maintain the range of entitled persons and the number of hours. 3. The Ministry of Health is proposed to provide for an additional financial resource of up to 200.1 million in the central budget for 2021. lv. ensuring measures in the field of health related to the overcoming of the pandemic indicatively distributed as follows: - 46.5 million. lv. For the purchase of additional 1 533 037 doses of vaccines in accordance with the National Operational Plan for dealing with the pandemic of COVID-19. - 118,9 million. lv. In order to provide support for first-line personnel directly engaged in activities to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19 to health uninsured persons. - 14.7 million. lv. For the purchase of Veklury medicinal product (Remdesivir) designed to treat COVID-19 in patients with pneumonia requiring additional oxygen. - 7,5 million. lv. For the provision of monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of COVID-19 under joint procurement procedures of the European Commission. - 12.5 million. lv. For the establishment of a reserve of medicinal products for the treatment of systemic inflammatory response and prothrombotic conditions arising from CIVID-19 in hospitalized patients. 4. On the central budget for the production of elections in 2021 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (ERDF) for the period 2014-2020. lv. funds shall be provided for all senior authorising officers with a budget relating to the electoral process when admission is made to produce an election for a president in two rounds. The same will be approved by the Council of Ministers with a separate plan-account. 5. For the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. The calmness of the Bulgarian citizens, ensuring the security of the judicial authorities and the successful security of the prisons are an objective function of the effective work and interaction of all structures in the public order system, including the forces and funds of the Ministry of Interior, as well as of the employees of the General Directorate of Security and the Directorate General of the Ministry of Justice, which have their important place and role in the stability and security of society. In this respect, it is necessary to cover the shortage of personnel in the Ministry of Interior system of up to 45,0 million. lv. In this way, the staff funds withheld during the current year will be recovered, ensuring that the remuneration is paid by the end of the year to those employed in the Ministry of Interior system. The lack of support funds for the activities of the General Directorate of Security and the General Directorate of Punishment at the Ministry of Justice of up to 8.4 million is also covered. lv. 6. For the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works funds are allocated up to 100.0 million. lv. for the ongoing repair and maintenance of the Republican Road Network, including priority road sections in need of emergency emergency repair activities, in order to improve overall road infrastructure and prevent the increase of road accidents. 7. The Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory provides for funds up to 16.3 million. lv. to pay the amounts due by the Commission for energy and water regulation in accordance with decisions of 2021 8. For an air carrier support programme, the envisaged funds by the end of 2021 amount to up to 30 million. lv. 9. The Bulgarian Institute of Metrology provides up to 0.8 million. lv. in relation to the assigned new functions under the Gambling Act and the Election Code. 10. To increase funds in the reserve to prevent, control and overcome the consequences of disasters. The balance of funds in the reserve for the prevention, management and resolution of the consequences of disasters is almost completely exhausted at the moment, which could lead to a shortage of funds by the end of the year. For this reason, 35 million were provided. BGN to increase the reserve on the central budget for possible payments by the end of the year. The draft Law also proposed changes in budgetary relations (transfers) on the net state budget of 152,7 million. lv. (0,1% of projected GDP). The increase in budgetary relations, in their part for the budgets of state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund, are related to the proposed changes to these budgets with the projects for their update. The additional costs provided for them for 2021 amount to a total of 477.7 million. lv. (0,4% of forecast GDP). Additional pressure on expenditure is putting the need for an increase in the funds foreseen for the year for the payment of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the general budget of the European Union. The change in estimates is linked to the combined impact of changes in the cost and revenue policies of the European Union. The European Union's draft amending budgets outline the need to secure an additional resource of 103.5 million. BGN to increase the estimate of the funds for the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the general budget of the European Union under the state budget for 2021. In view of the above, the bill foresees a deterioration of the balance of the state budget by 141,3 million. lv. (0,1% of GDP) compared to estimates under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with which the government budget deficit for 2021 amounted to 5,625.7 million. lv. (4.4% of forecast GDP). Reflecting the proposed changes to the general budgetary framework of the consolidated fiscal programme, an improvement of the budget balance on a cash basis is expected to be up to 4 604.2 million. lv. (3.6% of forecast GDP). In the updated estimates of the consolidated fiscal programme, the budget balance for the sector of government, calculated on the basis of the European methodology ECS 2010, reaches a deficit of 5.8%. On the basis of the foregoing, it can be summarised that the Bill seeks a balance between the need to provide additional funds for priority and urgent policies by the end of the year with already fully exhausted sources for their provision within the estimates under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and the opportunities of the revenue part of the budget to ensure their financing. The review of the parameters of the budgetary implementation of the half-year and improved expectations of a large part of the macroeconomic indicators gives reason to expect that the over-execution of revenue, which is set out in an annual plan, can meet these additional costs without leading to a deterioration of the budget position on a cash basis compared to the initially set target values. In this regard, no changes to the approved emission limiters and the amount of government debt for the year are proposed for the bill. The representatives of the employers' and trade unions expressed principle support for the update of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria insisted that the support for the measure 60/40 should be continued in a modified version and additional costs of approximately 80 million should be provided. lv. to cover accumulated losses from public overhead transport from the pandemic. Following the discussion of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Budget Act in the Committee on Budget and Finance, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 17 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u163	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mr. Gokov, are you going to present the report? You can also present the Report as a summary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at an extraordinary meeting held on 24 August 2021 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The meeting was attended by: Galab Donev, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Social Policies; Ivan Krastev, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute; Dragomir Draganov, Director of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policies, Planning and Predictability (NSI); Maria Mincheva, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association; Shteryo Nozharov, Economic Advisor at the Bulgarian Industrial Association; Dr. Maria Petrova, Secretary General of the Union for Economic Initiative; Asia Goneva, National Secretary of CNSB. The bill was presented by Mr. Galab Donev. He said he would make his statement regarding the additional costs and revenues of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as the measures and policies to be continued for the period until the end of 2021. He also said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the additional funds provided by the Law for measures and social support of the rightful persons and families in order to avoid social tensions in the complex epidemic and economic environment in the country in the main directions as follows: I. Additional expenditure on social assistance and support under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 as follows: 1. Expenditure under the mechanism of personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act: In the Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, the approved funds under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for financing the mechanism amount to 214.6 million. lv. The total costs incurred on 23 August 2021 under the mechanism are EUR 201,9 million. BGN, with monthly spending for August reached 30.8 million. lv. In 38 882 users and 40 167 assistants. In view of the observed growing trend in the number of users since the beginning of 2021, a monthly average number of users of 36 500 and in line with the average number of hours per month per consumer, a shortage of funds is emerging. In this hypothesis and given the growth in the minimum wage of 610 BGN. £650. and according to the legislative changes made to maintain the coefficient of 1.2 of the minimum hourly salary for 2021 and to maintain the range of persons entitled and the number of hours expected to meet the costs of the personal assistance mechanism for 2021 is up to 331,7 million. lv. supporting 42 400 users. The total expenditure shall also include the commitment under art. 13, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Law on Personal Aid, namely the transfer by users of the mechanism personal assistance to the funds under art. 8e of the Family Aids Act for Children - Monthly Aid for Raising a Child with Permanent Disabilities (5.6 million). lv. .. financed by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021) and art. 103 of the Social Security Code.. a foreign aid supplement for pensioners with a permanently reduced working capacity/type and a degree of disability over 90 per cent who are constantly in need of foreign assistance receive to their defined pension an add-on of 75 per cent of the social pension for old age (39.5 million). lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (ERDF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) under the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). . In order to secure the costs of the mechanism, personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act requires additional funds under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021, in an estimated amount of 72 million. lv. while maintaining the growth of the number of users (up to 600 "1000'/on a monthly basis) and reaching 42 400 users by the end of 2021. 2. Expenditure on assigned heating aid under Ordinance No 07-5/2008 of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and the Social Assistance Act: The State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 established funds under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for financing the target heating aid amounting to 131.2 million. lv. With Decrees No 113, No 177 and No 192 of the Council of Ministers of 2021 on the approval of additional costs and transfers of the budgets of the Ministry of Health for health expenditure for COVID-19 and the state social security for additives of BGN 50. the total expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 in the amount of 42,46 million has been reduced to the pensioners for June 2021. lv. Assigned aid for heating. The available resource is currently 88.74 million. lv. A total of 233 405 applications were submitted as of 23 August 2021. In the case of expected up to 17% increase in the number of users for target heating aid for the season 2021/2022, up to 333 000 persons and families and the new monthly amount of aid fixed 104,71 BGN. and a total of BGN 523,55. For the months of November, December, January, February and March, a total amount of 174,3 million will be needed. lv. on a lump-sum payment of the full aid from the Social Assistance Agency. In order to secure the costs of targeted heating aid, additional resources are needed under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 at an estimated amount of 85,6 million. lv. for a lump sum payment of the full amount of the aid - BGN 523,55 upon reaching 333 000 users of the aid. 3. Expenditure for monthly targeted aid under declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation of families with children up to 14 years of age (Art. 16b of the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act) : The State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 planned 73 million under the central budget. lv. By Decree No 102 of the Council of Ministers of 24 March 2021 and Decree No 250 of the Council of Ministers of 28 July 2021 approving additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021, 73 million were approved. lv. to pay monthly targeted aid under declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation to families with children up to 14 years of age. Total expenditure incurred on 31 July 2021 on the basis of the accounts of the Agency for Social Assistance amounts to 57,1 million. lv. for 18 210 monthly average number of families. In the event of an exceptional epidemic situation by the end of 2021, the expected implementation of the expenditure for 2021 will amount to a total of 103 million. lv. The budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 requires additional funds of an estimated amount of 30 million. lv. to cover the costs of the payment of monthly targeted aid in the event of a declared emergency situation or declared exceptional epidemic situation of families with children up to 14 years of age for more than 20 000 average family numbers for the period October-December 2021, based on an expected continuation of the exceptional epidemic situation and the preservation of the monthly average number of families supported during the previous autumn-winter period of the COVID-19 crisis. At present, total expenditure of 28,46 million has been reduced under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021. lv. in the order of art. 106, para. 2 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, out of a total cost limitation of 91,91 million. lv. under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and Decree No 408 of the Council of Ministers of 2020 on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. Total additional resources needed under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2021 on the basis of current legislation and timely payment within the framework of budget 2021 amount to 187,6 million. lv. to date, from them: - 72 million. lv. for costs under the mechanism, personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act; - 85,6 million. lv. for costs of heating aid targeted; - 30 million. lv. for monthly targeted aid costs in the event of a declared emergency or declared exceptional epidemic situation of families with children up to 14 years of age under art. 16 of the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. 4. Legal regulation and creation of new monthly financial support for pensioners with pension income up to 369 BGNSubcutaneous or intravenous use Monthly financial support is a target measure to compensate for the low income of pensioners over 65 years up to the poverty line. It is part of the system of measures to initiate the process of removing pensioners from poverty as a major risk group, which is a priority in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. Supplemental mechanism: - The financial support will be granted to pensioners over 65 who do not work and the amount of pensions they receive together with the compensations and supplements to them does not exceed the line of poverty, which for 2021 is 369 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Support will take the form of additional payment of the difference between the pensions received and the poverty line; - The additional payment will be made after assessing the realised incomes in the family in which there are pensioners from the target group; - The income limit in these cases shall be determined on the basis of the line of poverty and the number of pensioners, taking into account the income realised from the previous month of submission of the application declaration. The right to support will be given to persons if the income of the family for the previous month is up to the multiple amount of the poverty line depending on the number of pensioners in it; - The payment of the financial support shall be carried out by the Agency for Social Assistance on the basis of an application lodged by the persons in the respective territorial directorates at the current address and following an official check to establish the facts and circumstances relating to the award. The number of pensioners who will receive additional payment is 413 156. The amount of financial support per month will be determined depending on the income realised by the pensioner during the respective month. The amount of the necessary budgetary resources on a medium-term basis is up to 18 million. lv. (These data are of the National Insurance Institute). The budget expenditure is up to 54 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. total for the period from 1 October 31 December 2021 and the expenditure for December 2021 will be paid in January 2022 in the framework of the expenditure under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2022. It should be borne in mind that the necessary means to ensure the measure will be significantly reduced after receiving information from the NSI on pensioners working and depending on the family configurations of pensioners. Upon inclusion of pensioners over 65 years, the number of entitled persons is expected to significantly decrease in relation to family configurations, where there will be an excess of the family's income limit, less money needed for additional payments. The reduction is expected to reduce costs to 17 million. lv. monthly for 2021 In the legal regulation and creation of new monthly financial support for pensioners with pension income up to 369 BGN. from 1 October 2021 the necessary additional funds under the budget of the MCC for 2021 to cover the costs of the new monthly financial support for pensioners with pension income up to 369 BGN. For nearly 413 thousand pensioners are estimated to be up to 34 million. lv. for the payment of the expenditure for the months of October and November 2021, respectively in November and December 2021. The expenditure for December 2021 will be paid in January 2022 in the framework of expenditure with the DCB for 2022. II. Additional costs for business support and employment programmes up to 400 million lv. with the DCI for 2021, including a transfer to the DCI budget for 2021: 1. Measure 60/40 to maintain jobs. For the extension of the measure 60/40 regulated by PMS No 151 of 2020 and its amendments and additions, from August to the end of 2021, the current regulatory parameters require about 60 million. lv. monthly, or a total of around 300 million. lv. The funds are included in the project of ZBRBZ for 2021. Without these funds, the main measure of support for the business cannot be extended until the end of the year. The National Insurance Institute in the budget of the DEA for 2021 does not have these significant funds and savings cannot be expected in the future due to the likely increase in the costs of aid, benefits and others. The amount paid by the NSI from the start of the measure to the beginning of August was around 1,558.2 million. BGN received from more than 13 000 employers for the preserved employment of more than 311,000 workers and employees. Without this large-scale measure, the lowest level of registered unemployment in the country would not have been reached in early August. At this stage, no changes are envisaged in the measure 60/40 to make it less accessible and to reduce substantially the necessary amounts. In order to focus the assistance of the most affected businesses, similar changes have already been made, and for companies with a decrease of 30 to 40% the subsidy is 50% of the insurance income and for those with a decline of over 40% remains 60%. The measure was regulatoryly regulated by the end of July and the state budget was provided and transferred to the budget of the DEA the necessary 120 million. lv. for payments for June and July 2021. The employment of around 80 000 workers and employees may be maintained by these funds. The measure 60/40 has proven to be effective for companies in the sectors that do not cease business but have reduced revenues due to deterioration of business terms and conditions, limited tourist flow, limiting the number of customers in establishments, difficult deliveries and others. In the context of a new increase in morbidity, the negative effects of the pandemic are not expected to be overcome, nothing more Without this support for the business, he will resort to staff cuts about 80 000 new unemployed, as a result of which registered unemployment will increase and reach about 7.5%. At the same time, these individuals will start to receive unemployment benefits and the costs of the NSI will increase. In addition, there will be a strong negative effect for the business, which will not have staff in normalizing the situation and will not be able to quickly resume the pre-crisis volume of production and service. In an uncertain economic environment, redundant persons are not waiting to return to their old jobs, but are heading for places less dependent on the pandemic, allowing remote work and safe income. 2. Compensations for the maintenance of employment of employees in employers with temporarily discontinued activity in certain economic sectors where intensive spread of the coronavirus is observed. In August 2021 there was an increase in the number of those infected with coronavirus, which is a prerequisite for Bulgaria's entry at the beginning of the fourth epidemiological wave. According to current data on the spread of COVID-19 in the last few weeks, especially in the major cities of the country, the cases of infected with the virus have started to increase significantly. The business expectations of the MLSP are related to taking timely action to start paying compensation for the maintenance of employment for the period of limitation of business activities by an act of a state authority. If it comes to limiting the activity of enterprises in individual sectors and self-insuring individuals as a result of the deterioration of the epidemiological situation in the country, given the lack of funds under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" " 2014" 2020 will be launched, a new measure will be launched through the Employment Agency "Save me plus "Save me" to support 35 000 employees, 6000 employers and around 330 self-insuring persons in the period October-December 2021, with an initial estimated budget of 100 million. lv. with 100% advance payment, with budgetary resources on account of the budget of the MCC for 2021 This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. and to pay compensation for the maintenance of employment for employers and self-insured persons with temporary cessation in certain economic sectors of an estimated amount of 100 million. lv. for a total of about 115 000 employed persons, 6000 employers and about 330 self-insuring persons. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and KT. All organizations state principled support for the Bill. In addition to those opinions, Protocol No 9 of the extraordinary meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was received in the Commission. The sitting was held on 26 July 2021. The National Council for Tripartite Cooperation has achieved unanimous support regarding the Draft Law. In the discussion took part the MPs Denitsa Sacheva and Georgi Gokov. The MPs said they support, in principle, the update of the state budget, but also have specific remarks that will be put forward as proposals between the first and second votes of the Bill. Mr. Galab Donev answered his questions by the MPs. The discussion was attended by the representative of the Union for Economic Initiative Dr. Maria Petrova. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 14 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u165	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You couldn't get a résumé. [[Happy tidings.]] Report from the Committee on Health. I request the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u166	Please clarify what the word "resume" means.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u167	The main points of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister Vassilev! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. At its meeting held on 24 August 2021, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Health Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund Professor Petko Salchev, representatives of the Ministry of Health, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the word organizations in the field of health care, trade unions and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Stoycho Katsarov, who introduced the MPs to the main financial parameters set out in the amendments and supplements of the state budget. He pointed out that, given the exceptional epidemic situation created in the country as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the expectations of the pandemic to continue, it is proposed in the budget for 2021 to provide for additional funds of up to 200.1 million. lv. ensuring measures in the area of health related to the overcoming of the pandemic. In accordance with the National Operational Plan for coping with the COVID-19 pandemic and in accordance with Council Decision No 336 of 9 April 2021, an additional 1 533 037 doses of Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines worth 46.5 million are to be purchased. BGN, and these additional quantities will provide sufficient vaccines of this kind by the end of 2021. The funds to provide support to first-line staff directly engaged in activities to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including the introduction of vaccines against COVID-19 to health uninsured persons, amount to 118,9 million. lv. Dr. Katsarov explained that given the extended duration of the exceptional epidemic situation until 31 August 2021, as well as the expectations for the development of the pandemic to continue, it is necessary to provide financial resources for the payment of the additional remuneration of medical and non-medical personnel directly involved in activities related to the CIVID-19, amounting to up to 113,9 million. lv. It added that the funds were determined on the basis of the assumptions of the number of medical and non-medical staff entitled to receive additional remuneration when updating the methodology, taking into account morbidity dynamics over the period, the amount of actual labour and flexibility in applying the reporting indicators on a confirmed case by COVID-19. The amount of funds until the end of 2021 shall be calculated by an updated methodology in force from 1 July 2021, assuming that an exceptional epidemic situation and expected post-September morbidity increase is in place by the end of the year. Five million are also envisaged. lv. for the introduction of vaccines to uninsured health persons for the period July to November at a price of BGN 10 vaccination. For the purchase of medicinal product Veklury (Remdesivir) intended for the treatment of COVID-19 in patients with pneumonia requiring additional oxygen, a financial resource of 14.7 million has been established. lv. The intended means will provide about 6000 vials per month or 18,000 vials for the period from October to December 2021. Minister Katsarov explained that 7.5 million are envisaged. lv. to provide monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of COVID-19 under joint procurement procedures of the European Commission. These funds will buy a minimum amount of the medicinal product to provide treatment for about 3,000 patients. The Bill proposes the establishment of a reserve of medicinal products for the treatment of systemic inflammatory response and prothrombotic conditions arising from the COVID-19 in hospitalized patients in accordance with the adopted National Operational Plan for dealing with the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, with the estimated amount of 12.5 million. lv. The reserve of medicinal products will ensure that the needs of medical establishments are ensured if there is a delay in supply due to the imposition of restrictions and the difficult movement of goods, which may affect the supply of the medicinal products concerned necessary for the treatment of COVID-19. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria informed the MPs that in the context of the growing pandemic of COVID-19, some changes should be made to the texts of the proposed provisions to respond to the difficult situation in the country. It was pointed out that the specific proposals are set out in detail in their written opinion, expressing hope that they will be discussed and adopted between the first and second votes of the Bill. The written opinion of the Bulgarian Association for the Protection of Patients states that the proposed amendments and additions do not provide for a comprehensive information vaccination campaign to promote vaccination against COVID-19, given that Bulgaria is last in the European Union by percentage of the population vaccinated. During the discussion, the members of the Health Commission raised specific questions regarding the methodology for the allocation of funds to provide support to first-line personnel, the need to provide monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of COVID-19, the purchase of additional quantities of vaccines and the objective possibility of their timely implementation and the lack of funds for a national information campaign to promote vaccination against COVID-19 among the population. It was stressed that between the first and second votes of the Bill, the main problems should be discussed and the opportunities for their resolution for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens and those involved in the healthcare system should be sought. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u169	Thank you. Report from the Energy and Climate Committee, Mr. Hinoski.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u170	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. At its extraordinary meeting on 25 August 2021, the Energy and Climate Committee discussed and voted on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Violeta Lorre Deputy Minister of Finance and Mr. Ivan Ivanov Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The common framework and priorities in the Draft Budget Amendment and Supplement 2021 were presented by Mrs Violeta Lorere, who briefed the Commissioners on the main policies in its portfolio. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) provides for funds up to 16.3 million for the project in the sector. BGN intended for payment of amounts due by the Commission in accordance with decisions of 2021. On applications from producers of electricity from hydropower plants below 10 MW submitted against the KEWRC on the basis of art. 1, para. 1 of the Law on State Responsibility and the Municipalities for Damage, 49 administrative cases were formed. The claims shall claim property damage in the form of lost benefits arising from the cancellation of the item. 7 of Decision No C-10 of 30 March 2011 and Decision No C-5 of 20 February 2015 of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In 4 cases, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled by a decision condemning, in full or in part, the KEWRC to repay amounts due in total of 16,3 million. lv. in implementation of judgments for the benefit of Varuna, Pi S Contract, EO, Key G Invest Holding, and Eko Energy, JSC. The final provisions of the Bill make a proposal for amendments and additions to the Energy Act. Through them, the value of representative clothing obtained by the members of the Commission and the employees of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be limited to a value not higher than that fixed for civil servants. In addition, the possibility of receiving cash prizes from Commission officials, similar to the provisions on civil servants, shall be suspended. The costs of the additional remuneration of the KEWRC shall be fixed at no more than 30 per cent of the costs of salaries, remuneration and compulsory social contributions to the Commission budget. According to the proposed draft opinion expressed the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Ivan Hinovski, Martin Dimitrov, Mincho Hristov and Georgi Popov. The question was raised about the additional funds for judgment decisions against the KEWRC, whether the planned funds cover the principal of the liabilities or only interest. Deputy Minister Lorer replied that these were the means to cover the principal. The draft law also expressed Mr. Ivan Ivanov as Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Following the discussion, a vote was held on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46-102-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021, which ended with the following results: As a result of the vote, the Energy and Climate Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, No 46 102 01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u171	Thank you, Mr. Hinoski. That's what we've done with committee reports. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance for an importer's opinion within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we have heard from the committees, the main parameters of the budget are as follows: this year we expect to make an additional revenue of 1 billion 331 million under the state budget of the Ministry of Education, 105 million to the NHIF and a separate additional revenue of 424 million under the Recovery Plan of the European Union or a total of additional revenue of just over 2 billion under the consolidated fiscal programme. lv. Here is the place to thank all Bulgarian companies and all Bulgarian workers for being able to produce more and pay more taxes in one extremely difficult year so that this income can be there. Because we are here to distribute this revenue in the fairest and most cost-effective way possible, so as to help companies, workers and Bulgarian citizens face the potentially severe crisis that is coming. But if they had not collected this income and had not paid these taxes, we had to increase the deficit, take additional debt and burden the state budget. We are now able to face severe crises without increasing debt by reducing the deficit by 0,3% and by being able to fully finance all systems that need funding by the end of the year. The funding is allocated as follows: 575 million for social costs, which includes an increase in pensions for all pensioners on average by 12.5%, or 64 leva.; support for heating supposed additional support beyond the budget; additional support under the Personal Aids Act, as there are more users of this assistance; additional allowance for pensioners who, despite the increase, would remain below the poverty line so that we do not have any pensioners under the poverty line within this year and by adopting this bill, and supporting parents of children up to 14 years of age if we had to close schools and kindergartens again so that there is enough money for them as well. We also have 430 million support for business, as follows: 30 million support for air carriers; 400 million support, which is given on the basis of criteria made by a working group to the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy We fully provide the health system with a total of over 335 million so that there is money for first line medics, there is money for the additional medicines that are needed, there is money for the introduction of vaccines, so that people who have not yet been vaccinated can be vaccinated and there is a reserve for the medicines for COVID-19 so that it is restored. In addition to these costs, we have provided 133 million additionally for elections, because, as you know, this year we had an extraordinary election. We hope we don't have a second one. As you have just heard, 16 million for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to pay the principals and interest on lost cases. 100 million are provided for MRRB so that the winter cleaning and rhythmic work of the Road Infrastructure Agency can be organized. In addition, funds are recovered from the buffer of the Ministry of Interior as well as from the Ministry of Justice. Between first and second reading, we will make a proposal that we will make to the President of the Budget Committee, Mr. Karimanski, for additional funds on the budgets of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence to address a potential refugee crisis. As we know, the situation in Afghanistan has escalated in the last month and additional funds are likely to be needed. We are currently working with the two ministries to specify their size. These are the general parameters of the Budget Amendment Act that the government is proposing. This law is balanced, it will help all of us and the Bulgarian citizens to meet the emerging crises calmly and confidently that there is sufficient resources without, as I said, to worsen the deficit and without having to take additional debt beyond what is envisaged in the existing Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you very much. And I very much hope that we can be reasonable and pass the bill. [[Private applause from ICN, CB and IBGN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Danailov, for your statement, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u174	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! For the second year in a row we live in a pandemic situation, but now it is complicated by a possible migrant crisis, which implies taking urgent measures and displaying expertise at each level. There are such people that we understand that the need to draw up a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 stems from the increasingly real risks for a new wave of the pandemic in autumn, related to the rapid spread of the variant Delta from COVID 19, the slow pace of mass vaccination in Bulgaria, as well as the exhausted resources in the budget for the continuation of social economic measures for people, vulnerable population groups, and last but not least, the business and the lack of funds to deal with the challenges of the expected migratory flow. There is such a people and generally supports the update of the budget, but with proposals that we will make in due order. We would support the spending of the additional tax and non-tax revenue collected to be distributed after parliament's approval, unlike the long-term vicious tradition introduced so far, to be hidden, without clarity for people and businesses. Following further questions asked by the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" on Tuesday, the Ministry of Finance presented data on macro-rama in nominal terms both until the end of the year and for 2022 and 2023 for the consolidated fiscal programme. These data allowed a correct comparison with all presented nominal growth in revenues. The proposed budget update takes into account the revised expectations with regard to the main indicators in the macro-financial framework, which are respectively reflected in the revenue section. We support macroeconomic forecasts, and we believe that they are rather conservative. The results of these changes and the increase in revenue are mainly due to VAT, as well as tax on natural persons' income. Unfortunately, it is once again found that investments in Bulgaria remain at the lowest level across the European Union compared to gross domestic product. The challenges of the Kovid pandemic are also an opportunity to find the way to a better innovative future and the development of industry and technology by stimulating research and development, oriented in the real economy. Investment in quality education at all levels and synchronization of the work of educational institutions with the territorial location and the needs of economic zones are extremely important for the sustainable development of business. There is such a people that we are concerned about the risk of not receiving the estimated 1.6 billion. lv. advance under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. In this scenario, the estimates of the consolidated fiscal programme will not lead to an improvement in the balance on a cash basis, but, on the contrary, to a deterioration of the deficit of approximately 5%, or corresponding to money,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ BGN, and the lack of provided compensatory mechanisms. The optimistic scenario is the means to take place only in December. These funds are an advance payment for expenditure to be paid, they should finance the achievement of future objectives set out in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and not other national policies at the moment. In this sense, we reserve on the minimum improvements provided by the Council of Ministers regarding the budget balance on a cash basis. An additional resource to support pensioners is undoubtedly needed in the Here is the place to say that there are systematically neglected groups, such as the group of military invalids whose incomes, i.e. pensions, have not been changed for decades. We will submit a special supplement for the military invalids to update their pensions and social benefits. In the field of health, despite the contradictions of the measures, simultaneous separation of funds for a large number of vaccines and at the same time the separation of essential resources for medicines, we understand that both costs are inevitable. On the one hand, we must fulfil the commitments made for vaccination, and on the other, we are also obliged to provide means of treatment. With regard to the funds for business support, we believe that they should be allocated both to the continuation of existing measures and to support new more effective targeted measures to the directly affected by the wool business. An essential point not taken into account in this budget is the means necessary to pay food vouchers. Their value in 2021 was increased from 60 to 80 BGN. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The amount needed by the end of 2021 is an additional amount of around 40 million. lv. Otherwise, $450,000. users.. these data are from the CNS, would be left without monthly food vouchers. Failure to release these funds will result in increased costs for the business and we will be in the paradoxical situation that we support it by 400 million. BGN, but a withdrawal of 40 million lv. of the funds planned for business. The proposed changes also lack state support funds in the sector of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is not yet very clear why the deficit in the sector of government is not only decreasing, but on the contrary, it is increasing, despite publicly presented attempts by the caretaker government to block and eliminate the corruption practices of GERB and to block some of the leaks in the state funds. The ineffective management of state-owned enterprises is continuing to accumulate huge losses and the highest possible energy-intensive ones. The question here is why does it go on? That question needs to be answered. In three months, proportional economies of scale should be achieved in the event of the cessation of corruption practices, but this is not observed in the government sector. The remaining cost of elections, payment of remuneration at the Ministry of Interior, maintenance of the Ministry of Justice, the 100 million. lv. for ongoing repairs and preparation for the winter season in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the amounts of lost cases due by the KEWRC, the amounts to the Institute of Metrology in relation to legal changes, the increase of funds in the reserve for preventing and overcoming the consequences of disasters, and the contribution of Bulgaria to the European Union are not subject to a delay and they must be implemented. In addition, we believe that funds should be provided to address the migratory flow the country is about to face is of paramount importance. Taking timely measures is key to dealing with the crisis, we expect the estimates of the portfolio ministries, what you, Minister, said. And to conclude, I would like to sum up that, yes, we of the Political Party have such a people who are ready to support the update of the budget, provided that our remarks are taken into account and the interests of all the missed groups that I have expressed above will be protected. To justify the expectations of the sovereign, we are MPs, let us represent and defend the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u175	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. Excuse me, are there any lines? I won't. The next one is Mr. Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u176	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I am here, first, to state the position of the "Democratic Bulgaria" in relation to the proposals Draft for amendment and supplement of the State Budget Act and to set out some of our priorities. Firstly, the arguments with which we take this position and, secondly, the priorities we are trying to achieve not only between the two readings, but also life and health, from here on in the adoption of budgets. Firstly, the parliamentary group will support at first reading the proposed bill with the following arguments: The reality is such during this year that due to some problems in the budgetary planning of the year, which is, of course, extremely strange, so there is really no blame for this situation, there is a factual development in planning, where some of the costs imposed, which was socially unacceptable to be stopped and began to lead to the transfer of the cost ceiling. Accordingly, the cost ceiling must be increased, which can only be done by us MPs, by changing the State Budget Act. Secondly, we support with the argument that it is quite clear that the logic of the allocation of the change in budget is not that there are any things that are suspicious of us. We basically have three directions of change: health-oriented spending, costs aimed at supporting and compensation business in relation to the economic problems around the pandemic and, of course, social-focused expenditure, mainly through the pension system. This structure seems logical and does not create problems or suspicions in our country for ineffective spending of Bulgarian taxpayers' funds. Now that we are going to support at first reading, however, we reserve the right to have amendments to the so-made proposal between the two readings, such as our proposals, again without going into any particulars, but I will state the priorities that we will pursue when we make them. First of all, as far as possible more precision is available for the specific spending of the funds, which are envisaged as an increase in expenditure ceilings, the cost opportunities of the state, and in particular we will try to extract the most information about what the expected effects are, how socially effective these costs will be, so that as much as possible the public will benefit from each lev spent. Something that for us is a permanent priority. Secondly, we will try to increase this effectiveness through our proposals by focusing on precisely those public areas where we believe there is the greatest promise that these costs will have maximum effect. For example, we want to pay particular attention to stimulating vaccination by the population, because Mr. Simidchiev will be pleased with me - vaccines save lives, and are a key way to reduce the damage to the economy. Of course, we have other examples of spending to groups in the Bulgarian economy, which were not sufficiently covered by the previous measures, for example 60/40. And other similar, of course, priorities will be included. This is a second priority. And the third main priority of our proposals will be to improve the structure of the Bulgarian state budget precisely from the point of view of its formation. And here we are looking beyond the year 2021, we will try to lay the foundations for a more appropriate budgeting in the future, in line with modern realities, more careful planning of future budgets, so that we do not have to again even in such extremely strange years as this, to revise the budget in the middle of the year, because this is not good for business plans, neither for the business environment, nor for the environment in which the households themselves make their decisions. It is nice to have one not only legal certainty, for which hardly anyone is surprised that the Democratic Bulgaria is in Bulgaria, but also to have one fiscal fiscal security in all economic actors, so that they have more clarity about the environment in which they will make their decisions. And our proposals will be in this direction: to clarify, to stabilise the structure of various public public systems that are covered by public finances, so that decisions can be made more sustainable in future years. These will be our priorities. I hope that we will constructively persuade our fellow Members to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Petar Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, of course, we must also comply with the restrictions we find that this is a Budget Updater. Here we can hardly do detailed macroeconomic analyses and fiscal analyses in terms of stability, of course, with the agreement that we must safeguard this stability with this project and not allow it to be violated. We're looking at an update that was clearly going to be made. It has been set since the adoption of budget 2021, as well as due to the two election periods we have been through up to now. It could have been carried out at the end of this year as well. It could have been done at the end of this year. It could have been done technically, as GERB practiced in recent years, which is definitely not a good example of fiscal policy, but we seem to have grown accustomed to doing three updates a year and we will probably still have to do one more in December. Update is seen in a third election situation, at least due to the presidential elections. She once again has a pre-election personality, but at first glance, she also blurts out responsibility. It was not accompanied by sufficient analytical information and two meetings of the Budget Committee helped somewhat to remove this omission. The update opens Pandora's box and there will be many proposals between the two readings that will hardly be rejected. There are similar long-term proposals in the current update, but they will also be added to them, which could jeopardise long-term fiscal stability. It is proposed in an option that does not guarantee what exactly these 1.2 billion will be used for. lv. They're listed as a menu in a restaurant, but dynamic. Prices can change, and we can't end up getting what we ordered. The question is, who ordered it? The answer is: the one who controls the SUV. Yes, we can again talk about the SUV as a symbol of handing out funds, with the otherwise legal instrument of a decree of the Council of Ministers. All that 1.2 billion. lv. will be allocated to the PMS and will reach the addressees with similar PMSs. What size will be decided not the National Assembly, but the Council of Ministers and it is very likely that we will learn it last, and now simply to ask us to authorise the costs. For these reasons, we demand that expenditure be recorded as solid amounts in the budgets of the relevant departments so that there is no doubt that they will be distributed again by the jeep model. There are still possible buffers in the current budget, which we will also monitor with increased interest on how they will be spent. These are capital expenditures, which up to now is 25%, toast by the end of July, and by the end of the year will hardly exceed 70%, i.e. nearly 2 billion. lv. they may not be absorbed, which reduces the potential for growth, but they can be reassigned. Along with the case with the Road Infrastructure Agency, it may be necessary for Parliament to consider a decision to carry out additional costs and some of this buffer to be used, but there we expect action by the executive, for which we have the assurance that it will be undertaken, as up to now 100 million have been proposed there. BGN, which are insufficient, but those funds that are needed there, to see how it will be allowed to be spent, can lead to the deficit on a charged basis to increase and exceed 7% of gross domestic product. We also observe the lack of some costs that can and should be made at this time, and conservative revenue planning will allow, if we make it more realistic between the two readings, these costs to be allocated. There are no additional funds for municipalities. They must also be supported in the complex pandemic and economic situation. There is no means for the activity related to the growing migratory pressure, which is significant, as long as, of course, it is realized as much as they need to be and the necessary organization is made so that events do not surprise us. We expect government estimates based on an in-depth analysis of the situation. There is also a lack of funds for the sector........ in view of the constantly changing situation and expressed readiness for protests by representatives of this sector, so between the two readings we should also think about them. The update is a risky move in the current situation... of the election period, lack of majority and lack of responsibility for the additional costs to be incurred. It may distort fiscal stability, which has been called into question since the previous years, especially in 2020 and early 2021, when the SUV model has been unleashed with great force. We must make sure that the update does not destroy fiscal stability by trying to avoid long-term adventure, which is not secured by income, but simply bet on higher costs. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Are there lines? I won't. Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! First, of course, we will declare on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria that we will support the update of the budget for at least two main reasons. First, the government's motives show understandable reasons and arguments as to why an update is required. Secondly, as far as I know, there is almost no country in the European Union that has not undertaken an update of the budget, because even for the previous management, it has been extremely difficult to predict exactly how COVID-19 will develop, what will be the effects on the economy and social activities both for developed countries in the European Union and for less developed Eastern Europe. France has, for example, made three budget updates in 2021 and no wonder to make a fourth update in the last quarter. So there is nothing scary about updates, especially in such a dynamic and challenging environment. The question is is is the update sufficient, as other colleagues have noted, is the funds being used effectively enough? First of all, we want to warn that Bulgaria is the country of the European Union and many countries outside the European Union, which to the slightest extent supports the economy and its citizens. We always use facts. What are the facts? Two indicators, honourable Members, additional budgetary expenditure of each country, including indirect aid in the form of deferred tax amounts and other charges. Secondly, covering interest on loans, bank guarantees and shares. See what Bulgaria looks like according to these two indicators: Italy according to the first indicator: 35% Not to quote for all EU member states the conclusion that in 2019, 2020, and now the Bulgarian state is the largest stepmother in the European Union to help businesses and its citizens in 2021 is categorical. Secondly, in terms of deficits and stability. Dear colleagues, we've talked about this before. There are requirements of Maastricht that should be observed under normal and exceptional conditions. The truth is that even before the crises were never respected and the first two countries that violated them, unfortunately, for a budget deficit, were Germany and France. Now see what happens if we are not Catholics of the Pope, I will say again: it is not at all a question, let us now double the budget deficits or increase the debt. Again, I am telling you that the Bulgarian state is a stepmother, precisely for these reasons and facts which I am exposing to you. What are the second sets of indicators? Budget deficit. Last year Bulgaria What are our partners from the European Union doing? Spain - 11%; Maastricht - 3%; Belgium - 9.4%, in the centre of Europe; Italy - 9.5%; Austria - 8.9%. The former juxtapositions... [[Replications from the MPs Alexander Nenkov and Toma Bikov.]] I'll tell you about Denmark. ... Poland - 7%; Hungary - 8.1%; Slovenia - 8.4%; Bulgaria - less than 4%, now four and something. That's why we're a stepmother because you can't push budget spending, leave your business and households without enough help and expect positive results. Yes, in Denmark, the deficit is only 1.1%, but there is one small feature that in Denmark health and education, including higher education, are free, medicines are covered up to 50 percent of the Danish state, and young people up to 18 years of age receive free and dental care. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And their taxes aren't equal to 10%, they pay 50% tax. [[(Noise and lines from GERB. Revelations: ……]] Uh, but here we're explaining the flat tax, but you don't want to change it. What the government envisages is that there are greater increases than in the budget of 2021, which is good, but first it is not enough because of the arguments I told you and, secondly, we have a problem where the money goes. Since in your motives, Mr. Minister, which are not different from the incentives that were set out in the previous government, we are betting growth in the current Based on what? It's an incentive of consumption, isn't it? But what's the problem? What consumption, what goods, fellow Members? Is it true that according to Bulgarian statistics 80 per 100 of the food products are imported. Is it true that when you enter a shopping mall or supermarket, look at TVs, computers, other equipment, what part of it is Bulgarian? That is to say, we do not devote enough money to this is our criticism for public investment. Another colleague mentioned the foreign investment demand this year is going around 50 - 60% below last year's level, which was tragic. Our internal investments are about 19% of gross domestic product, which is three times less than a few years ago. Given that the Bulgarian state has directed its incentives and compensations only to consumption, i.e. to solve the problem of other countries and peoples who export to Bulgaria, and we do not compensate for the fall in foreign investments, including with increased budget costs through public-private partnership, we create very serious problems. Then, what do we propose to improve in costs? We offer the amount is slightly higher in terms of retirement we provide, but we say that by about 150 million. lv. in more ways, we can achieve greater social justice. Because it is great that efforts are being made to keep these 50 levs. for all pensioners, but it is not good that social injustice is deepening. The seniors with maximum wages will get more, and by the way, there is another problem here. Yes, you will compensate the Bulgarians, the Bulgarian citizens with the lowest pensions, and you will give them social support, only that it will be so that by including social support, those who are close to this line and have more work experience will actually get less than the Bulgarian state, which is unfair. The key issue is not solved that people of the same profession were said by the Minister of Labour today for the first time, I was pleased to hear this recognition that, in fact, people of the same internship, in the same profession, retired at different times receive some times different pensions. And our proposal solves that issue. Secondly, we told the preliminary meetings that there were no transfers to the municipalities. Colleague, we will do, we will argue, and I am sure that we will be supported by other colleagues - less than 100 million. lv. for municipalities with specific estimates, including for the aid of those who have been in severe condition for years, municipal hospitals. So this transfer to the municipalities, and you didn't foresee such an increase in the transfer, is absolutely necessary. Furthermore, the comparative analysis of what other countries of the European Union are doing is almost without exception giving direct aid to self-employed people. It is not foreseen in the budget update and that is why we are offering 35 million. BGN to be used for this purpose. They shall be equal to the aid of one minimum wage per self-employed person. In addition, we offer 250 leva. for the start of the school year for families who meet the relevant requirements for the benefit for poor families, covering 120 thousand children from first to fourth grade, which will cost us 7 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Furthermore, we believe that the expected revenue part of the budget should be increased. By the way, the proposals we are making do not, in fact, suggest even an increase in the budget deficit, which we are talking about, provided that you can make an increase in budget revenue by 500 million. And I am sure, my colleague, that you are well aware that we can do this because you said it is provided by VAT and other revenues around 800 million. BGN, which you said quite rightly and precisely that they have already been fulfilled. By the end of the year, the government suggests that two difficult months may be expected, hopefully not so, but even in these calculations, it should be 500 million, conservatively speaking, more in the treasury. Why? First of all, you didn't foresee an increase in excise duties. I was looking at fuel consumption in Europe and in Bulgaria. This is my job, I did my job. There is no way in the case of an increase in the price of oil already by 10 dollars from before June that means that with higher fuel prices you will get more from VAT, but as the physical consumption is greater, you will also get more excise duty. So if you would like to account for an additional 500 million, which will allow us to solve these problems to a greater extent. Between first and second readings, we will submit these concrete proposals, protect them with concrete estimates and hope for the support of our fellow Members. Dear colleagues, under the conditions of a pandemic and under the conditions of assistance to the Bulgarian business and families, there should be no political bias. There is a difference in views and policies, but here we are chosen to solve our country's problems in these difficult conditions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u181	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u182	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A brief line to Professor Gechev from the perspective of the budget deficit. I do not understand you are most likely proposing an increase in the budget deficit based on the examples you have given us in Europe and in quite European countries. The only thing that concerns me is this: the Bulgarian economy is currently 3.6 times more energy-intensive than the EU average. Could the Bulgarian economy cover this deficit after the pandemic? Thanks to its activity and growth, which it can generate in time after the pandemic, so that this deficit does not continue its deepening. This is the only thing that worries me, as we see at the moment that the price of electricity is rising fast enough. Can we, if we increase the deficit to such quantities, the average quantities of Europe as the size of the deficit, of course, be able to catch up after the pandemic of the economic growth of an economy as ineffective as the Bulgarian economy at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u183	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Gechev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u184	Thank you for your good question, colleague. Firstly, I said categorically that these estimates do not imply an increase in the budget deficit, but suggest greater budget revenues with specific arguments and estimates based on trends in Europe and the markets in our country. Secondly, in terms of energy. It is in such a state of energy because of our confused state policy, including the public-private partnership. Since NEK is in actual bankruptcy, Maritsa East 2 is 1 billion. 200 million. lv. accumulated debt. It is not refurbished, it is not technologically renovated, it is not in line with the new realities. Our entire TPP sector in Bulgaria is under huge damage, as not only is Maritsa Iztok 2 (Maritsa Iztok 2) but also private TPPs will not be able to pay the bill, even at the new prices due to the price increase of the CO2 pollution permits. While we are reporting low budget deficits, I explain this, very low, and this is a good share of debt in gross domestic product in the countries that I quote you in Europe, have greater deficits, have greater debt in gross domestic product, but we are looking at them through a curved macaron. I'm gonna finish this. A person who digs into the garbage can is extremely fiscally stable, owes nothing to banks, is not in a budget deficit, but is in the garbage can, so we have been boasting for years that we are record low deficit and with surplus sometimes, with record low debt and in Africa there are ten countries with even lower debt in gross domestic product, only that we are the last in the European Union. And I didn't say the most disturbing Romanians had a 7% deficit, but with 7% real growth in 2021. Let me remind you, since we are the last, and Romania are the last, third-grade task, their growth, being the last, is 7% real, and we have 4 percent staked. What's going on? We're getting last, and we don't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u185	Thank you. Next statement: "Georgy Ananiev." Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. [[Noise and lines.]] Kiril Ananiev, I'm sorry. I'll buy you a shirt, Mr. Ananiev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u186	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Today we are discussing the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act for 2021, which you know is a basic financial law of the state and which regulates the country's main social and economic policies and priorities. This has always been the responsibility of the ruling party or coalition, which had the corresponding political responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens. At the moment we are in a completely different situation, the state is governed by a caretaker government, where the mandate ends, and at the same time we are on the eve of a political crisis. In this situation, the question arises who is politically responsible for the consequences of this bill? This situation could not help but have an impact on the quality of the submitted draft budget update and the reasons for it. Due to the scarce information in the reasons, it was necessary at a meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee to listen to the Minister of Finance for more detailed information on the proposed reasons. The added value of this hearing was very low by imposing in writing our questions so that we could objectively and professionally form our opinion. The answers were very common and did not fulfill the purpose we had set ourselves. Some of them even raised new and more complex questions. Regarding revenues, we have not been given consistent information on the size of the gross domestic product and the expectations for its development in the coming years, which does not enable us to assess the correct assessment of the potential revenues of the state budget and other budgets in the consolidated fiscal programme. In addition, there are one-off incomes and conditional fixed costs are envisaged against them. Declaratively, the factors affecting the growth of revenues are indicated, without assessing how, in what size and assumptions each of them influences. We have not been provided with a comprehensive and updated macroeconomic framework, but only some indicators of it, which does not allow us for a full analysis. It does not sound serious that the over-execution of the tax revenues at stake, and this was mentioned just now by Professor Gechev that it has already been achieved by July and by the end of the year no over-execution is envisaged. Does this mean that you predict that the state will not have its own plan and measures to counter the crisis and the economy will be blocked? I cannot accept the fact that, if we eliminate certain one-off revenues laid down in the adopted budget for 2021, such as the initial concession contribution to Sofia airport of 660 million. lv. or the change in the time limits for declaring and paying corporate tax and dividends, and others, of course, will prove the false thesis launched in the public domain, for the overexecution of revenues thanks only to the caretaker government. There is no certainty that by the end of the year funds of 424 million will also occur. BGN, representing 3% of the advance funding on the line of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. Who's to blame for this delay, let's all answer each other. For us, the answer is clear. Thus, in practice, an additional deficit under the consolidated fiscal programme of the same amount is covered, which will, by the way, be taken into account on a charged basis under the Eurostat methodology. Undoubtedly the pandemic of COVID-19 significantly affected the life and health of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian business. The proposed changes in the spending area concern not only socio-economic measures to combat the pandemic. Moreover, they will not only affect the budget for this year, but also the budgets for the coming years. In this respect, it was imperative to provide detailed analyses for the implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme by July, including the use of a 5% buffer provided for by the Law, of the expected implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme at the end of the year, and not only related to the planned socio-economic measures, but also to the overall implementation of the programme. We needed this to assess the possibility of restructuring costs before moving on to providing additional costs. Please note that, by the end of July, the expenditure absorption amounts to 40% for those expenditures which are conditionally permanent and will continue next year. It was right to present us with a 3-year budget forecast to assess their impact on the deficit, debt and other fiscal rules regulated in the Public Finance Act. Mr. Minister, I know that you will say that in the answers to our questions you have submitted information, yes, in tabular form, as final figures, without however the necessary analysis. That is, you have adopted the budget for this year as it is, and you have added to it what you ask of the National Assembly for an increase in the individual measures. I think this is neither an analysis of budget implementation nor an analysis of expected implementation. Moreover, my opinion is that long-term policies should be proposed by a regular government, which is politically responsible for all the policies included in its management programme. Unfortunately, we were again presented with fragmented and insufficient information. With regard to the socio-economic measures, we asked for the design and the mechanism for their implementation. The draft law offers 400 million. lv. for economic and employment conservation measures. There is not a single sentence in the reasons for which measures these funds are provided for and what is the mechanism for their implementation. Now I understand from colleagues from the other parliamentary groups that this information has been transmitted to them, and in the answers to my questions you have only given me information about how the budgets of ministries and departments have been increased to which additional funds have been allocated. In the part about supporting business and keeping employment, you haven't answered anything. Not to mention that some of the measures have further issues to be specified. For example, the so-called and accepted publicity of 1000 BGN. for the people on line one. There is still a dispute on how to apply the mechanism in order to reach consensus on the conditions under which the rightful persons will obtain them. There are other examples of ambiguity, lack of objectivity and precise estimates in regulating and proving the necessary additional means. There is no information and assessment of the deficit on the basis of an assessment that proves whether the country complies with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. In relation to everything that has been said so far and despite the great optimism I hear in plenary, I am obliged to inform you of the risks that may arise. Firstly, limiting the possibility of carrying out a number of important policies because of the assumption of significant and irrevocable costs. Secondly, a lasting generation of significant deficits is five or more per cent of gross domestic product, which will generate a significant amount of government debt. Thirdly, the general safeguard clause for temporary deviation from the Stability and Growth Pact rules remains in force this year. However, it should be borne in mind that the temporary deviation from the rules provides Member States with budgetary flexibility to deal with the crisis, but provided that it does not jeopardise financial sustainability in the medium term. This is a temporary deviation from the path of correction to the medium-term budgetary objective. After its withdrawal, Bulgaria is able to enter an excessive deficit procedure, it will be forced to take corrective measures, which, when the spending is exhausted, will lead to a change in the tax system in the direction of higher taxation, i.e. raising taxes. We have never allowed ourselves this before, Minister, which is why we will not support the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Budget Act for this year in the first vote. For a second vote, we will make the necessary proposals in our view, which are really necessary to deal with the severe socio-economic consequences of the pandemic without, notice, engage a future regular government that will have its own management programme. Finally, I would mention that the assessments so far of the European and global financial institutions, including the reputable rating agencies, have proved that Bulgaria has a prudent fiscal policy, the financial system is stable, and we are in the first three in the European Union on the lowest budget deficit and government debt compared to gross domestic product. From the bottom of my heart, I wish you to be such rulers! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! My line, of course, will not be linked to Mr. Ananiev's budget capacity because he is indisputable and longstanding. I will focus only on the multiple questions who? "Who is something already famous in Bulgaria and in this particular part I want to be especially careful. Who didn't submit the Development Plan? I think the whole room in this part knows. After all, the parliaments in Bulgaria are already for 20 days. You didn't bring in the Development and Reconstruction Plan, so don't ask the minister. I think it's unnecessary. And to the question: who will be responsible? It is a dramatic, difficult political issue for these two months, I can refer you to the last 11 years. For the first six years, Stanishev was responsible, he was responsible for everything. Then about three years of responsibility was Oresharski. Next, the Kovid was responsible. It's not your fault! Why are you asking for two months?! Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u189	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Do you want a hole, Mr. Ananiev? No. Ivaylo Kojuharov. [[Heckling]] Ah, here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u190	REPLICA: Isn't it in groups or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u191	I'm doing them in a row, yeah. They haven't gone into groups since the beginning, and I'm trying to alternate them from at least different groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u192	Mr. Ananiev, I want to answer the technical questions on the budget you asked. Firstly, information about GDP is also provided in the motives, was also provided to you in the committees. As regards indicators and the macroeconomic framework. As you know, the macro-economic framework is published by the government twice a year, once on 25 September, when the government will publish it because we are preparing it. Now we have given you the preliminary parameters for this framework. And the second time in March, when you didn't publish it. So there was no framework to step on, published, adopted by the government. We had to work with the framework from last October to start updating the framework for this year. As far as the re-execution of revenue is concerned, it was only the caretaker government. Whenever we talk about revenue, at least when I talk about revenue, I say that revenue and their overexecution are due to two factors: the good economic situation and the better work of the Customs and the NRA. Combination of both factors, about 50/50 ratio. Colleagues are doing their job extremely well. I can give you a few examples if you just want for August. From 1 to 20 August compared to the Plan, which is made at your time, for example we have 100% overexecution of the dividend tax, we have 69% over-execution of VAT only for the first 20 days, we have over-execution of the tax on individuals and corporate tax on the Plan that you set for August.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u193	Why are you telling me there's no such plan?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u194	There is such a plan, and you know it, and you get it every day, or you get it when you were a minister, and you watch the performance. So the NRA and the Customs Agency are doing their job very well. When they concentrated on high-speed companies, big-government companies suddenly started filling the treasury faster than the economic environment suggested. We have overrun monthly revenue by 31%. 31% for July month! No matter how much inflation, no matter how much economic recovery we put in, they don't make 31%. As I said in my initial statement, the reason we have these revenues, and we should thank the Bulgarian companies and Bulgarian workers the most because in a severe crisis, in an uncertain political situation they have done their job, made their product and paid their taxes correctly. And those who have not imported them properly, we have kindly asked them to bring them in correctly. And that's the job of the NRA and Customs. We're moving on. I think the delay in the recovery plan made Mr. Babikan quite clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u195	Get him in!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u196	Well, we'll bring him in if he doesn't have a regular government. Isn't that the idea that you constantly say here: a regular government, to make a policy, to bring the Plan in? Life and health, next week there will be a regular government, it will bring it in. If there is no government on a regular basis, we will import it, or which is the other office because the Bulgarian business needs this money. We have quite a normal time to be able to submit this plan, to be examined and to receive the funds accordingly within this budgetary year. A few words on political responsibility for the budget. The government is making a draft law, but parliament approves it. The political responsibility for this budget lies with this Parliament, which is why you are paid salaries, so citizens have chosen you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] If parliament decides that there should be no update, the political responsibility for not having an update will still be in this Parliament. We can only make an offer. [[Noise and lines.]] We make a proposal, you decide whether this proposal is acceptable or not acceptable. The government, Mr. Ananiev, as you know, is an executive, it does the will of parliament. We are a parliamentary republic. If there were periods in the country when the government was not executive but ordered parliament, I very much hope those periods are in the past. [[Applause from IHN, "Democratic Bulgaria" and IBGNI.]] This brings me to the last point that you mentioned on the table of expenditure restructuring. I have only one question: why are costs at stake if they should not be implemented as they are laid down? Why should we restructure costs? What does that mean? There are some costs at stake that are placed there only to use them for restructuring, not because they are important or because they have to be done. This is an extremely vicious practice, and I think that Parliament should decide what costs should be and not the government by restructuring to decide on its own from whom to take and to whom to give without a sanction to Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause. Replies from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u197	Thank you, too. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, for the back. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Oh, no, I'm sorry. It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, before I release you the questions related to the decision of the Budget Committee, you know that I have sent you a written question relating to the revenue for this year. You well said that as Minister of Finance I know that there is a monthly distribution of revenues by species, which, after it ends every month, we reflect in one tab whether it is more or less. Only I had this information until April. In the letter you return to me as a written reply, you tell me that the letter is in the room on the other side that by law you do not have the obligation to make monthly revenue distributions. If you want, I'll bring it to you right away and you'll find out how wrong you've turned and a little fooled the people who are in this Chamber. You could give the proceeds, and then we'll see what's the difference between August's earnings as planned and as reported. In addition, I want to tell you, you said it well and well thanked all the business operators in Bulgaria, who in an extremely critical environment give everything they can to work both at the same time and to create gross domestic product and to import taxes into the state budget. Yes, but agree that in order to get to that point, all of this is due to the good organization that created our government at the worst moment of the CIVID-19 crisis. This does not happen suddenly August month suddenly they decide. So it's a lengthy process in which we at the most difficult moments, with some rare activities,... [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] ...that were closed...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u199	Mr. Ananiev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u200	...everyone else worked because we had created these conditions. As regards the restructuring of costs. [[(Reply from.. Democratic ……]] I have to take this. I'm sorry. These are not costs that are recorded for restructuring. These are important expenditures recorded in the central budget. But in such an emergency situation as the COVID-19, because the parliament has entrusted the implementation of the government's budget, on the basis of the specific situation, the government decides which priority is the most important.... whether the health and life of the people and the saving of the Bulgarian economy, or any other expenditure that can be postponed for the next period of time. So do not think that there are any restructuring figures placed there.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u201	Mr. Ananiev, your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u202	I can also answer for the macrogram, but there's obviously no time. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u203	This personal explanation has become a speech. Ivaylo Kojuharov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u204	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I would like to take account of the additional costs that are intended to support the business. Yes, 30 million are planned to support air carriers Funds are also provided for, amounting to 100 million for regional development and public works, 16.3 million for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. However, where are the funds for the tourism sector, which is undoubtedly one of the sectors, which over the last year and a half has borne the greatest burden in relation to any restrictions, closures and all that is related to this. It's about the employees, but it's also about the businesses. It's about restaurants, it's about hoteliers. And I see an opportunity that I think this injustice could thus be somewhat changed, and that is in those separate funds that amount to 400 million to deal with the adverse impact on the economy. To the extent explained by Minister Vassilev, 240 of them are allocated to the measure 60/40, which concerns all businesses and the remaining 160 are for other projects. I believe that it would be absolutely fair, given the volume that the tourism sector realises in gross domestic product, at least half of these funds, to be provided specifically for this sector, and this can be supported in connection with permanent costs or other projects to help this business, since in the event of a new restriction, and even if not, a number of employees in this sector are literally ahead of the brink of bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u205	Thank you, Mr. Kozhuharov. Are there lines? I won't. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr. Minister! The update of the budget is this modest sign of reason that we owe to the Bulgarian citizens to show them that we know why we are here. I am pleased, Minister, that you personally thanked both companies and workers and all Bulgarian citizens who fulfil their obligations, and you understand what your mission is in the redistribution and return of the money to them. This is one of the opportunities to see today that we do not resemble a Roman emperor who, after himself, wants to burn Rome. If there was no budget update, we would have left without rules a weak limit against the migrant wave, companies without compensation, a wool without resources to be met and pensioners without support by the rules. Today we provide money for Remdesivir, and we do not receive wages for political sketches in which we explain who is who. Today will not justify us, but it may be a small hint that we can work for those who have sent us and understand what a parliamentary republic is. To a large extent, we see that in GERB's state budget, the one voted by GERB's government, it was not dedicated to reviving the economy. It did not develop a plan to resume Bulgaria as a response to the recession caused by the horse pandemic. Today, the update is the necessary drop of sense for urgent spending, which will help a small part of the sectors most affected by the crisis. There is no way to expect the update to be innovative, promising or which gives a new direction of development, this is a task of a regular annual budget and a stable cabinet. This is an update of a first need related to the most urgent needs in order not to have the state in crisis, but to have its citizens in distress. In it you will not find all our priorities, everything we want for the country in favor of green transformation, an incentive for electric vehicles, there is no encouragement for companies in the agricultural sector in its real development. There are no measures for small and medium-sized enterprises in a normal economy, there is no solidarity fund. But this is not the work of this update. You will see only the urgent measures to continue supporting employment, but without innovation. There is no means for young people and their entry into professional life. You will not find programs of the government for youth loans, guarantees and scholarships. In the update, colleagues, you will understand that the revenue part of the budget is good in my opinion, not in advance, but for one reason and only reason, outside the work of certain sectors and it is inflation. And this gives us a clear picture of how the standard of living of Bulgarian citizens is reduced. The measure 60/40 provided support to protect companies, their employees and their know-how, and thus maintained the skills needed to recover. Which is a good thing to admit. Therefore, in this update, a caretaker government cannot make great strides in design and experiment, but bet on effective measures. The update of the budget is an honest and honest way for society to be informed about the financing of all measures. Today's political situation and budget are clogging up emergency aid holes, but our behaviour implies an excuse for not making reforms. We are like a divorced family with a fallen purchasing power, increased prices of medicines, food, electricity and steam, which is lucky that it did not take fast loans.. unlike people. At the moment, we are only dealing with the agenda imposed by the crisis itself. I welcome the unconventional direction of an office to update pensions. We believe that this courage should be shown to give the small spark horizon for overcoming the winter and the coming months of the most disadvantaged Bulgarian citizens, namely our parents, grandparents and grandfathers. Ladies and gentlemen, over one million. pensioners are below the poverty line, and this is our tragedy. Yes, it is not reasonable, at first glance, for an office to offer such an update, but it is necessary. We from the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! Not only will we support any higher proposal, but we will also offer our views on the sectors that are not affected by the update. I am the last politician willing to welcome the spending of money we have not yet won, but the situation has reached the point that if we win it tomorrow, there will be no one to give it to. There is no explanation for how it is possible for me and for my colleagues here in this Chamber that there is no increase in the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the general mobilization of society? Following the last order of the Minister of Health, the sector is facing a significant decline in its activity due to measures for physical distancing, in conditions for conducting mass events. In this regard, we are witnessing a complete lack of funds in measures for this update. The Parliamentary Group of Stand Up BG! Next week, we will prepare changes between first and second readings to show that support for culture in crisis is a mission of each of us. Here we must remove the duration of a differentiated VAT rate for books, support operas and theatres with money for tests for visiting artists and the possibility of using the overall capacity. Funds must be allocated to the National Fund of Culture to assist free artists in the crisis. It is absolutely necessary to create a register of freelance artists to map the sector. We can create cultural vouchers, we can create another kind of vouchers, and this should only be the beginning of a mission, a mission that will be deployed on an equivalent basis for next year. Colleagues, I am convinced that this mission will have much higher than constitutional support in this House and only a good financial resource can allow us to start ambitious actions to process our cultural model. We need to provide better support for creative schools, artistic companies, visual arts, music industry and the entire performing arts sector. We cannot allow the sector to be designed in the future with such a modest share of the cultural component in the Recovery Plan. This is a sign that in the vision of our government culture will continue to be a symbol of misery, not a basis for the development of our society. If we don't give today this impetus for cultural development, then tomorrow we won't have industrial capacity, but we'll have functional illiterateness. We will not have a knowledge economy, but we will have boots in our bodies and a lack of political culture in parliament. Mr. Minister, our parliamentary group will support this project and we will make all our proposals between first and second readings within reason and consensus. We will have the additional part of the opportunities for all other sectors for both agriculture and tourism to present to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. - What's the line? I won't. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Vassilev, honourable colleagues! I would like to concentrate your attention, and on you, too, on the main part in the....................... which you are proposing in the state budget. Since, in practice, the main reason for the update, apart from the social policy that has been ignored by previous rulers for a decade, is the COVID-19 crisis and measures in the area of health are those that will ensure stability and the economy that has been mentioned here and the culture to which Mrs Capon has devoted the last five minutes so zealously. In this respect, I would like to turn to you and to your team the attention that you have focused on two main directions. The first direction, this is the vaccination policy and the second is the therapeutic management of the pandemic phenomenon COVID-19. I will then stop at the end and a third question, which we think is extremely important. In recent days, in many discussions we have had regarding vaccination policy, I have been impressed by the attempt that all the blame has been made to throw itself at your government for all the failures in vaccination policy. This is absolutely incorrect because those who managed the health crisis had the opportunity to manage vaccination policy within six calendar months. They left Bulgaria in the last place on vaccinations and it is unrealistic to think that in two months a pace can be reached to level Bulgaria with the average European rate. Here comes the Minister, and I told you that in the Commission, very carefully to adjust the volume, and here the cost is about 50 million. BGN, which you have provided for the purchase of vaccines. You were paid attention at the beginning of the discussion in the nation on the issues of budget update. Then, when this deal was concluded on 9 April 2021 by the government of GERB, Bulgaria already had huge quantities, huge quantities of vaccines and it is surprising why a contract was then concluded which obliges the European Commission gives two options: an optional contract and a contract which has binding clauses. The other possibility that there is, too, which you, I suppose you know, is that the state can postpone supplies, which you are doing right now. To postpone payments, that is, to redirect the 50 million. lv. in a direction that is more important in the field of health. Please, within the first and second reading, make a very precise analysis. There have been accusations in the previous days that your Minister of Health is hiding vaccines somewhere in the refrigerator cabinets in Bulgaria that one or the other is happening. Indeed, buying 50 million-dollar vaccines. lv. At the same time, the donation of vaccines and their resale to the Kingdom of Norway raises confusion. This must be very carefully cleared and the figure that will come in this first direction should be quite precise. Secondly, in terms of treatment, an intertherapeutic doctrine. Many accusations have been brought on your government, and I would just like to remind those who put them on you, how Bulgaria bought medicines with enthusiasm, how it was walking on national media and bragged certain politicians that one or other drug was being bought, which was not under the influence of either the FDA or the EMA, and subsequently it turned out that these drugs could not be used and they quietly went somewhere in the warehouses of the Ministry of Health. So with regard to this part of the Programme, we fully support you, and we also believe that between first and second readings, as some other colleagues in the Health Commission have said, you should consider particularly carefully the quantities for the only preparation that is indicative of the treatment of coronavirus, and this is Remdesivir. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a very serious issue that has remained unclear. From the very beginning of the fight against COVID-19, the guilt is now being blamed despite Dr. Katsarov's explanations, which I read very carefully, to the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, I must tell you that regardless of the many points Dr. Katsarov describes, this campaign is far from adequate to what needs to be deployed in the Republic of Bulgaria. Next, there is a major problem in the budget of the state and in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, addressed to children and adolescents. I have bothered to analyse the decision of all the governments of the European Union for the starting school year and I have to tell you that 99% of the decisions are for the present school year. We allow ourselves here as politicians, and you as a caretaker government do not give us a clear picture at the moment, but 20 days until the start of the school year. How's she gonna start? These two things, the educational campaign and the attitude towards children and adolescents, are included in a cost item of the budget, which is called the promotion and prevention of human health. We will have concrete proposals between the first and second readings and we think it would be nice for you to comply with them. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u209	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Are there lines? Here you go, Dr. Simidchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u210	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! A line to Professor Mihailov. Professor Mihailov, you said there was a huge delay, which is a fact, but you said we couldn't catch up with him. I think we can if we spend enough money in the budget, which is our strategy. As we have appealed to the Commission, we repeat here: if we spend enough money, we can really catch up on what was missed in the last almost one year to do vaccination.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u211	Thank you. A line? Here you go, Professor Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u212	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, today I said that one of the major crises in Bulgaria, which I do not know about, unfortunately, whether history will assess in time whether we have managed or not, which is becoming 100 years old, is a kind of crisis. It certainly gives birth to different emotions in different politicians. In this, the National Assembly, very far back in the years, the people who have stood in this Chamber, have found a way to talk about the important things that stand before the Bulgarian citizens and not to throw things from the past that will in no way solve the problems of the future. One thing is clear, and you said it from this tribune. Yes, we have provided enough vaccines for Bulgaria. We have provided a sufficient amount of vaccines so that Bulgarian citizens can choose which vaccine, if they wish, to vaccinate something that in other European countries does not exist. However, listening to you, I remember another debate that we had from this parliamentary tribune when you insisted on both in the Committee on Health and from this tribune you explained how there was not enough vaccines and how Bulgaria should purchase the Russian vaccine Sputnik.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u213	Mr. Angelov, just to remind you that you don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u214	You said that by April, we had enough vaccines, and then you said there wasn't enough vaccines, so I asked myself, when are you telling the truth now or then?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u215	Here's your coat, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u216	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Professor Angelov, I did not want to go in, as you rightly said, in the topic of the past, even the recent past we are talking about, but then I will tell you, because you ask me: if someone brings something here a political responsibility for the lack of vaccines in the first five months of the vaccination program of the whole world, when Bulgaria collapsed to the last place, it is your government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The GERB government! We can't help but remember your colleagues who carried out your media policy, how they went to the media and explained that we wanted to be vaccinated, but the vaccines were gone. Then it was our political party who proposed the import of vaccines. Then it became another problem in an extremely clumsy way - the largest volume of vaccines that was purchased by the Republic of Bulgaria was questioned by the entire nation and again thanks to the actions of your government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Then we proposed again.. not in order to say whether there is, shouldn't there be, but to facilitate Bulgaria, as did other countries of the European Union, such as Hungary, Slovakia, we proposed not only one type of vaccine, but to negotiate for other types of vaccines as well. So let's not go back with detailed memories, because we all remember what happened in the last year and a half in Bulgaria. So thank you for the line. The other line was Dr. Simidchiev's. Dr. Simidchiev, I agree with you, but I think that the costs should go not to the expense of NHIF, which we discussed with you, but what we are offering at the moment. "Promotion and prevention of human health" of the Ministry of Health. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u217	Thank you. To speak, Martin Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u218	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I want to start with the big picture and it is this: when Bulgaria and Romania enter the European Union in 2007, there is already a lag, but for this period Bulgaria's lag towards Romania is double. That is, Romania achieves twice as many convergences from Bulgaria or, in a Bulgarian word, a catch-up of the European Union's incomes. Twice as much as Bulgaria! For this is also our main goal, to which everything must be subjugated, budgets, reforms, economic growth, colleagues. This must be our main goal in order to have higher pensions, to have higher salaries, to have better employment and to start catching up with the average European income. Therefore, colleagues, the key issue is efficiency. Here, some people gave two billion dollars to an e-government. Do we have an e-government? We do not have, that is, it is not just the question, as some colleagues have explained to us here the costs. That is not the point, but in 8.7 billion for inhouse orders, which I congratulate you on making a discovery and taking whatever measures you can. The key is how money is spent in Bulgaria because it is spent outrageously. That's what we need to change. We from "Democratic Bulgaria" have a few concrete examples for you, something that can be done and not cost expensive. Under the measure 60/40, Minister, there are huge expectations and people say: we applied.... we did not get. There is currently a register of NSIs, which, if you open it today, has data as of June who received funding under this and similar measures. We suggest that there should be a register of all applications received at the Employment Agency and then a register of approved applications. By doing it this way, you will not see it until it is paid for, what happened, but will be clear preliminary requests and approved requests, not as the previous authority did. It's only when something's paid for, that's when the scandal happens. There were extremely questionable beneficiaries on these programs. That is, when we turn things around, we get this: two months before the money is paid to see people, to see their claims and to see who has dropped out and who is financed. Next example of severe inefficiency. In a health pandemic, there are some people here who have started doing government gas stations. This could have been a joke in another situation, but you know it isn't. Bulgaria has the most gas stations per capita throughout the European Union. 50 million to begin with, but with the idea of spending hundreds of millions, of course. And I asked your deputy minister, what do we do with that money, are they back in the budget? She told me you haven't gotten there yet, but you have to get there. That's 50 million, maybe more. I also asked her about another genius idea, implemented by the previous government, about 1 billion for a water holding company in a world that is decentralized. Specific decisions are being made on the spot, and they have made mega-vik holding on an old socialist model, and perhaps their idea came from some experiences from the past. I was going to ask you, what part of this 1 billion is a cash contribution? This cash contribution is to be paid back into the budget! These are insane ideas against the background of a coven pandemic. Here people ask you: where do we get one, two, 10 million, one billion for the mega water holding company?! Next, there is a great deal of concern about what support self-employed people will receive. Special measures must be considered for them, so that they do not turn out to be lagging behind and remain outside the centre of politics. Just in case, my colleague Ganev and I have written you a special issue on this subject, if today, given the complexity of the situation, you do not have time to pay special attention. Look what you get is money, and it's just outrageously spent. This needs to be changed and this update if you want. Your time as a minister is an important step to change this because someone has spent 8.6 billion on inhouse procurement and about 5 billion on public procurement have gone to a small number of companies. What's the problem here? In the amount of money or in the way it's spent? First of all, colleagues, the problem is the way money is spent in Bulgaria to change and you will see how everything else will change. Otherwise, we from "Democratic Bulgaria" support and stand behind your approach for a variety of tax checks to start with the big companies. Because here a long period in Bulgaria control was focused on the sellers of the market, they were pursued by the tax companies, but for the big companies it turned out that there is no resource and no time for anyone to check them out. This change and you will see how Bulgaria can be different. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u219	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Nikolina Angelkova for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister of Service, tourism is one of the most damaged sectors in the continuing pandemic situation, the consequence of the global climate crisis and its recovery is essential for our economy and, according to the World Tourism Organisation's forecasts, this is expected in the period 2023................................................................................ The tourism sector not only suffers losses but is facing the edge of survival and has no time for more wrong decisions. While hotels, restaurants, concessionaires, tour operators and others do their best to protect our image of a safe tourist destination, the Minister of Tourism and the other members of the office seem to not understand the importance of the sector for the economy of the country and this is visible with a simple eye in the proposed by the Council of Ministers an update of the State Budget Act where the sector is lacking. The leading measures in tourism, which are being implemented for its support and at the moment, were introduced by the Political Party GERB and the third cabinet with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov after the beginning of the pandemic and during the first months of its management, such as the 60/40 measure for the employed, which from tourism was upgraded to 80/20; state aid of 35 euros per tour operator seat using charter flights to stimulate foreign tourist traffic; state aid to the tour operators so that they can reimburse their customers for unrealised travels due to the pandemic; mandatory reduction of a minimum of 50% of the prices of umbrellas, sun beds for sea beaches and the corresponding reduction of concession payments. From the decisions of our cabinet remained the support with grants of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises under OPIC for working capital, which is given both directly to the enterprises and to the NRA. Thanks to the efforts of our cabinet with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov at European level, we were able to negotiate a moratorium on the repayment of the loans, which is key to the survival of all Bulgarian enterprises in the sector. I would like to ask you here if such talks are currently being held at European level in view of the fourth wave we are also in with the expected peak in September and October? What did the caretaker government do? He created a program for free holidays for students and teachers for 15 million. BGN, in fact, the measure 60/40 works, but under the conditions of a 40% drop in turnover, which, I apologize for the words, but this is a pure mockery with the sector, especially now in the midst of the summer season, when they work and have hope of recovery. In practice, this measure cannot be used by companies because in order to be able to do so, they must face bankruptcy. Is that what the office wants? It is now almost a year and a half later that the caretaker government, which currently manages, is able to create new policies and meet the specific expectations of the industry according to the new realities. Tourism is faced every day with trials, and not only by the difficult environment of work, but also by the unknown and chaos that state administration is currently imposing on them. Imagine how you should work and hire employees on the condition that you do not know what the horizon of activity is or how to plan when management decisions differ or contradict each other. It seems as if the coordination between the Minister of Tourism and his colleagues is missing or completely chaotic. It is necessary to have already started planning and preparing the winter season 2021 and the summer 2022 season, to negotiate charter programmes and to focus on next year's advertising. We are also in a fourth wave, according to professionals employers, workers and employees in the sector of "Tourism" have an urgent need for support now "not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, when some of them may have gone bankrupt or are unemployed because of the lack of decisions and measures by the office. The tourism industry needs predictability and consistency, sensitivity and understanding. In the proposed by the caretaker government an update of the state budget is laid down 430 million. lv. for business measures and again only for measure 60/40, whose new conditions under which it will be conducted are still unclear, there is no targeted support for tourism, no funds are provided for directly and free of charge to assist the tourism business, which will seriously affect it and will stop its recovery. We insist on the immediate continuation of measures to support the insurance income of workers in tourism, even if this measure is upgraded by directly supporting everyone employed in the sector, to consider measures to keep workers and employees away from the season. We insist on continuing the grant measures for working capital and capital costs of companies, as well as for helping tour operators to recover the money from their customers for unrealized travel. We also demand an increase in funds for marketing and advertising activities, and to extend the VAT period for goods and services, which expires on 31 December 2021. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. This should find its reflection in the upcoming state budget update as soon as possible. The most important for the sector is the staff and the lack of predictability and support leads to leaving or re-qualification of those working therein. If urgent measures are not taken, this will result in lack of personnel and a decrease in the quality of the Bulgarian tourist product, which we should not allow. Thank you for your attention. Between first and second readings, we will make our proposals for concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u221	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The aim of today's debate is what we can do, not to deviate on the subject and 70% or more of the speech to be what we have done. If we're going to talk about what we've done for the tourist sector, let's not just mention the measures, but say what happened so that this industry is at this level, as it is right now, open, close, no predictability, literally people were left on the street. Let's not deviate from the subject and use the stand for product positioning. [[Applause from ICN and BSP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u223	Thank you. Any other lines? I can't see. A hole? You don't want to. We'll continue with Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u224	Madam President, please extend the group's time. Dear Minister, this update is possible thanks to the fact that there is more revenue in the budget. As you have heard from Minister Ananiev, most revenue is due to two main reasons. One is higher consumption due to the fact that during the Kovid crisis last year, people did not consume, stay at home, closed establishments were closed and so on and this is one of the reasons, and the second reason is inflation. Inflation, which made iron twice as expensive, made oil twice as expensive as compared to the prices before the crisis, the electricity, the plastic, the fuels, everything jumped almost double. These basic products lead to higher revenue in the budget. That's just a remark from me. The reason we abstain is because you already know that our group will abstain, Mr. Minister, one of the reasons, of course, has many other reasons, but one reason is that we in this budget have not seen any support for energy intensive enterprises. Energy intensive enterprises produce 20% of Bulgaria's gross domestic product. They have consumption in fact the share of electricity at their cost is more than 20% and are therefore called energy intensive enterprises. This electricity has jumped by more than 100% at the moment. For tomorrow the price was 210 BGN, there was time, there were days when the price was even over 300 BGN. At a normal price, at an expected and budgeted price of these energy intensive enterprises, within about 100 BGN, i.e. they already pay twice the cost of electricity. As I said before, these enterprises produce 20% of gross domestic product. At the end of July, we observed days when some of these businesses were closed and failed, for they could not afford to pay the price of electricity. My question is: why is there not a single lev in this update to help these enterprises? It is good that you thanked the Bulgarian business for producing goods and paying taxes, but with our expectations for high prices in winter, it may be that next year the number of companies paying taxes will be much smaller. As I will now say for the third time, these energy intensive enterprises produce more than 20% of gross domestic product. By the way, among these enterprises there are also state-owned companies such as the BDZ, most of the water companies, the Mini Maritsa East, i.e. if you come up with a programme to support energy intensive enterprises, you will actually help and state-owned companies, which I expect to be the worst affected, the most affected because they are, how can I tell you, the most secure because they are at least flexible in similar situations than all those which are energy intensive. So what I'm offering you is to assign your team to the Ministry of Finance, as you said: we are being paid our salaries to vote on the budget. You are also paid, and the Ministry of Finance, to come up with a proposal and offer a solution on how to help these companies. And you'll only allow me one remark at the end. The specific part of the energy budget is to provide the energy regulator with 16.3 million. BGN, which is awarded on the basis of lost cases. Here it is important to understand what is the essence of these cases, because we heard from you in the public domain reproaches the regulator for losing the cases and therefore a proposal for punishment in the update of the budget to reduce, rudely speaking, the money for clothes. However, the cases are related to privatized hydroelectric power plants about 20 years ago, which have been privatized almost for free, for 200 million each. lv. 117 power plants have been privatized! These hydropower plants have long paid off their investment costs simply because they are privatized for free. And although these hydropowers paid off their investment costs, they had a claim to the regulator to be paid a high preferential price, which is paid for brand new hydropowers, which cost many millions of levs to be built. And the regulator decides that since these old power plants were bought almost without money, they paid off their investment costs, their price would be different. For five or six such cases, the court with a final decision has decided otherwise and this is 16.3 million. But in my opinion, your role should be to support the regulator, to see where the problem is and to help it protect in other cases the public interest, which is certainly not to overpay repeatedly for free, almost free, taken hydropowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u225	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u226	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. In 2013 I had to be an energy minister after you and clean up a pretty big mess, unfortunately. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] At the moment, what you're telling me is why as a finance minister doesn't fix the energy mess a second time? He's got an energy minister. He's on the job. Specifically. The best help for businesses that use a lot of energy is that the price of this energy is low and not that we give them gross aid. Why are we looking at a high energy price in the last few weeks? Let's start in a row. Let me ask you: why isn't Pavec working? 850 megawatts of energy, which can be dispersed at the moment, is currently out of order and we cannot use it because for three years the repair of PAVEC has been under way. If it could be used, we wouldn't see these peak electricity prices. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Why didn't we see them? "]] Exactly, why didn't we see them when Pavec Chiara was working?! Two. NEK has problems with another part of the hydrocascades, as you very well know. They don't work either, they're also in endless repairs. Three. On the energy exchange the rules are currently made so that a trader can submit a really unlimited number of offers for 100, for 110, for 120, for 200, for 500 BGN. with one guarantee that allows speculation on the energy market. Four. The TPP, despite the higher price of energy, for unknown reasons with the management that was approved and appointed before our government, unfortunately, decided that it would not participate in the energy market and got involved by about ten days later, respectively, at the moment when it became involved, electricity prices fell. Here the question is: why was the TPP not involved earlier and whose interests were served? [[Relations from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] Yeah, I'll answer that. Another question: why is Bulgaria currently not using the full volume of azeri gas of a billion cubic meters, which comes at a price twice as cheap as the price at which we buy from I'd like to point out that you've been doing it for seven years and it's not finished yet. [[(GERB-SDS lines:]] , 12, I apologize, but in this clause it says: "Or at the nearest Greek point "Nea Mesemvria" where we already receive part of this gas, but not all one billion cubic meters. All this leads to higher electricity prices and leads to all these problems. Now to your question: should we target businesses that are large energy consumers? How does it work? The state sells quotas, they enter into the Fund for guaranteeing the security of the electricity system and then this money from the Fund is used respectively for subsidies to some large enterprises, or for subsidies to all Bulgarian citizens. In the case in Bulgaria they are used for subsidies to all Bulgarian citizens and companies, not specifically to one part of the companies. If you want to raise the price for everyone else to reduce it and give targeted subsidies to some of the big energy consumers?! Say it: let's raise the energy of the pensioners and give the large enterprises that are consumers of energy instead of solving the main problem, which is to have cheap energy for all Bulgarian citizens. [[(Replications by National Representative Desislava Atanasova:]] Thank you. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u227	Thank you. Here you go. Mr. Dobrev, just a moment to ask, since Mr. Minister was so quick that he interrupted the procedure a little bit. Are there any lines for Mr. Dobrev? I won't, okay. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u228	Mr. Vassilev, I am glad that you are not an energy minister by listening to you, because you do not know the basic concepts of energy. You have a mess in your head about energy. [[Noise and lines.]] And since you said you inherited a mess from me, [[noise and lines]] In fact, I found the mess, and to a large extent it was resolved until you became a minister. In those three months when you were a minister, you applied the measures already prepared by the Ministry. That is, you have done nothing new, except that you have dressed them in the form of the World Bank and applied them. These measures were subsequently implemented by this National Assembly. And unlike you, who for unknown reasons were once elected as energy, then as a finance minister by two diametrically different presidents, we are all elected here by the Bulgarian citizens. You are simply appointed in some way by someone, perhaps with some connections, while all of us here are elected by the Bulgarian citizens and subsequently elected as ministers and not appointed. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I apologize. And it is a shame that you are the Minister of Finance and have not been familiar with the correspondence between Bulgargaz and the Azerbaijani happened with regard to gas imports! If you were familiar with this correspondence, you wouldn't be talking any more nonsense from this tribune. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u229	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Please, no qualifications. Mrs. Zhekova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u230	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, dear Mr. Vassilev! I would once again like to return the focus to the measures that are aimed at business in proposals for a budget. The state budget update proposed by the caretaker government is set at 400 million. lv. for business measures, but only for measures 60/40 and a new modification of the measure 75/0, known as However, the new conditions under measure 75/0 are not yet clear, which means that there is also no predictability in carrying out the activities of the companies. In fact, measure 75 plus so far has been aimed at workers and employees operating in the closed sectors of the economy under the order of a state authority. Now we do not see in the budget update what criteria will be allocated to these funds, which are set at 100 million. lv. There is no targeted support, I will repeat again, as well as my colleagues before me, for the sector "Tourism" "from transport" only benefits aviation with a target subsidy of 30 million. lv. There is also no continuing measures for fixed costs of companies in proposals for an update of the state budget. The measure 60/40, which is already known for its effectiveness, in support of the business of maintaining employment and employee income in the version in which it is implemented at the time, and the option that you propose to continue until the end of the year, leaves virtually a large part of the companies that are having difficulty in carrying out their activities and which have a drop in sales revenues between 20 and 30%. The current version of the measure actually gives funding to those employers who have a drop in sales revenue of not less than 30%, with financial support in this case being 50%, and those who have a drop in sales revenue of 40% will have financial support from the State of 60%. This means that companies that are virtually bankrupt and that companies are encouraged not to account for their actual income, to provide their employees with minimum insurance income for their respective position or minimum hourly rates. At the same time, as of 1 June 2021, the targeted support for the employees engaged in economic activity in the sectors of Hotels and Restaurants and Tourism and Transport was also suspended through the project Short-term support for employment in response to the pandemic of COVID-19. It is for these people that we are not currently seeing in the budget update that separate funds to support them in a future serious crisis that could shut down these businesses. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS we have introduced a draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. It proposes the settlement of a lasting, sustainable and predictable mechanism to support the state's employment when restrictions are introduced by a state authority and they have an impact on businesses and employers' business. The proposed changes shall take into account the experience gained during more than one year of State compensation for employers and workers during the emergency situation and the exceptional epidemic situation in the period March 2020 - July 2021. It is these changes, if, of course, we have the opportunity to accept them in this National Assembly, that they will allow, in the event of exceptional circumstances and situations, employers to have predictability of what support they can rely on from their country. Finally, I would like to point out that it is really very important to pay attention to the funds that must be allocated to the most affected sectors of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-08-26.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. - What's the line? I can't see. Colleagues, since it is 5:56 p.m., I propose that we call off the meeting and we continue tomorrow at 9.00 p.m. with the State Budget Act. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
