ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Everyone, please put on your masks. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I will read to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for 1 September 2021: The proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. The proposed proposal does not meet the requirements of art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria 1. Draft decision on the discussion and adoption by the National Assembly of the draft laws on amendments and additions to the State and budgets of the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Social Security for 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July and 2 August 2021. Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria": 2. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. Invokers? Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs; Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs; Andrey Mihaylov and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the parliamentary group for rights and freedoms. From the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! We're coming! There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on support and mediation for projects in the field of translation in South East Europe, signed by the Bulgarian side on 29 December 2020 in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the National Security Service Act. Importers suppose Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs; Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. 5. Hearing of the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency Alexander Dunchev on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Management of Hunting Farms, Hunting Bases and the Treaties on the Management of Hunting Territories in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer? the People's Representative Borislav Sandov? a sequel. 6. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the procedures, amount and method of financing of the Project for the deepening of the water ducts in Varna Lake, including the respective actions of the State-owned enterprise. The representatives of the National Assembly Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev, continue. 7. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. They are: Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs; Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs; Andrey Mihaylov and a group of MPs. 8. Hearing of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on: Project for Modernization of Railway Station: Importers Plamen Danailov and Andrey Mihailov, as well as the designated route for the construction of a high-speed railway highway Sofia, Pernik via Gorna Banya, Knyajevo, Vladaya, Dragichevo for freight and passenger transport and the concerns of residents related to transit traffic, noise pollution and the removal of railway stations. The representatives of the National Assembly Dimitar Delchev, Galina Tavalitsa and Julian Nenchev. 9. Hearing of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and of the Minister of Finance on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the legality of the contracts concluded by the National Assembly, amounting to 3.1 billion. lv. for the construction of the highway. "Hemus" and the road "Vidin" "Botevgrad" and the strengthening of 84 landslides, the advance funds paid under them and the legal opportunities for completion of the sites. Importer supplier Maya Manolova. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Thursday, 2 September 2021. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote the dots outside the dots under para. 7 who are not subject to a vote. They voted 209 MPs: 130, against 63, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Proposals have been made under art. 47, para. 3 from Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs to hold a hearing between the minister of the service, the ministers of defence, the interior and the foreign affairs about the government's readiness and plans to meet a new migration wave and the necessary means to secure the activities of the responsible institutions. If necessary, the hearing shall take place under the provisions of art. 44, para. One of the substations. The hearing is proposed to be put on the agenda for today's plenary session. Mrs. Atanasova, as point one after para. Is it going to be 8 if it's accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u3	Okay. Please vote on the proposal so made. They voted 209 MPs: 149, against 8, abstention 52. The motion is accepted. A proposal came from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Hristo Prodanov. On the basis of art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Stefan Yanev on the readiness of the Republic of Bulgaria to deal with the increasing immigrant pressure, the measures taken and planned by the government in internal and foreign policy terms, as well as on cooperation within the European Union. The proposal is for Friday as point one before parliamentary control. Please vote. Vote 206 MPs: 150, against none, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal from the MPs Maya Manolova, Maria Kapon, Arman Babikian to hold a hearing of Yordanka Fandakova Please vote. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, they are not justified, they are directly put to the vote, I suppose, as a point before parliamentary control you want it to be, because you have not said what point to be on the agenda. Please, voting mode. They voted 210 MPs: 42, against 135, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. With this, all the proposals have been exhausted. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, it is clear that the proposal for a item on the agenda under art. 47, para. 8 for consideration of the Election Code is unacceptable in the Rules, as it has not expired two months since its entry into the National Assembly, but also with the conviction that we are all aware that we are on the verge of parliamentary elections and democracy requires that we give more opportunity to the Bulgarian voters to vote in such a way as to broadcast their stable representation in the next 47th National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u5	Mrs. Atanasova, is your procedure, in the manner of conduct, a declaration from a group?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u6	My procedure is for the agenda, Mrs. Miteva. Since our proposal was not accepted, I appeal to you with the will of the House to change the Programme so voted minutes ago, and to allow the proposal of the GERB parliamentary group to consider the amendments to the Election Code. [[Radio.]] We are all aware that we are entering an election campaign, but it is even more clear that with the proposals adopted in the last amendment of the Election Code we reduced and limited the possibility for Bulgarian citizens to vote not only by machine but also by paper ballot. We are faced with a situation where we do not know what the pandemic situation will be like. We believe that it should be possible to vote with the paper ballot and that there should be guarantees of honesty, transparency of the electoral process and the counting of receipts after the election day is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u8	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal for this item to be included as a item on the agenda, as the Chair of the Legal Committee for this more than a month has not found time to examine our bill. Madam President, I also appeal to you personally: I ask you to exercise your right to distribute the bills and to insist that this bill be dealt with by the Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs as quickly as possible if it is not approved in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I cannot influence the work of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I have distributed the bill on the first day of this committee being constituted on 18 August, so the only thing I can do is call an extraordinary meeting of the Commission. As I can see, the Commission is meeting almost every day and there is a meeting again today. The President of the Commission is here and you have addressed him. I will not put to the vote your proposal, because according to art. 47, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure are imperative and clear that when the time limits have not expired and when there is no report submitted, the laws cannot be tabled at all and put to the vote and discussed. You had the opportunity, when the new Rules were made, to make a suggestion that this ban should not apply under para. 8 and to rule out this possibility, but you didn't do it. Since there is an explicit norm in the Rules of Procedure that when the two-month term under the Law has not expired, I cannot put it to a vote. Messages: 1. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 63, p. 1 of the same law The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria has adopted Decision No 639 authorising the participation of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in a non-military NATO operation to assist the evacuation of certain Afghan citizens. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been informed in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the permission of the Council of Ministers. The notification and the decision attached to it were received on 30 August 2021 with entry No 46-102-00-10 and made available to the Defence Committee. 2. All notifications received by 27 August 2021 including in accordance with art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces and art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria are provided by a resolution of the President of the National Assembly of the Defence Committee. 3. The Members of the National Assembly shall be notified to their service e-mails of new notifications. Moving on to item one of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSURE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF THE LAWS FOR CHANGES AND ADMISSIONS IN THE STATE AND BUDGETS OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH AND STATE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE FOR 2021, AS REFERRED TO BY THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF 30 JULY AND 2 AUGUST 2021 Importer (s) Cornellia Ninova on 31 August 2021 Mrs. Ninova, you're welcome to present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After President Radev gave Coalition BSP the third mandate for forming a government, we are trying to make a permanent majority in parliament and a regular cabinet with two goals: to have a working parliament and this government to face the crises that are hitting Bulgaria; and the second goal is that lasting majority and possibly a regular government to finally start the real change of the current model of governance, which we announced by Coalition BSP for Bulgaria and the so-called three parties of the protest. From the facts you see in the last days, our efforts are not yet adequately appreciated by the colleagues we have invited to talk, despite our dialogue, patience, a call for reason and responsibility to the state and to the people. This conversation is particularly complicated after yesterday's position of the Democratic Bulgaria (Democratic Bulgaria) not to come at all for talks and there to make public their opinion................ we support, we do not support, why you do it. Of course, today we will wait for the meeting with the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people" and we will also hear their opinion. But as these conversations flow, we understand the responsibility that we bear at this time on ourselves for the state of the state and for what will happen in the coming months. That is why we are concerned about the update of the budget for 2021. Of course, we have not yet opened a topic and a word for the budget for 2022, but this is also a responsible action expected by the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from IBGNI.]] Madam Chairman, can you please stand up? We're coming!...to solve their problems outside the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u11	Mrs. Manolova! Everybody put on your masks!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u12	We all understand that the budget update is extremely necessary and important in order to be able to recalculate pensions, to provide funds for doctors and medical teams on the threshold of the quota crisis, money for medicines, money for border protection, budget for business benefits and those workers who will remain in the crisis without work or will be imprisoned at home. I call on you to show that responsibility! But at the same time, we are reasonable people and we realize that we cannot hold this term indefinitely. Since we do not have an understanding of the so-called parties of the protest, we are prepared to keep it in a short period of time only to make this budget update, not to leave the state on the threshold of these crises and chaos and people to face the winter without funds. That is why today we are proposing a draft decision of the National Assembly and we hope that we will all show reason and understanding to speed up the update of the budget. During the talks so far, you have to stand up to BG! We are coming!... for which we are grateful, we have had a conversation about the update of the budget and about shortening the deadlines and we have found understanding. "Democratic Bulgaria" refused a conversation at all, which means to us that they do not want this to happen. Today, of course, they have the word from "There is such a people" and we will also understand their opinion, but guided by the responsibility mostly as a mandate carrier, because whatever we talk about, it is up to us right now what will happen in the coming days and months without overestimating our role. We know that we are 36, we cannot alone and are seeking allies for this decision, so we call for this responsibility. We propose that the National Assembly adopt the following decision: "1." Reduces the deadline for written proposals for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021, No 46-102-01-4, until 3 September 2021, Friday, including. 2. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold an extraordinary meeting on Saturday 4 September 2021 from 11.00 until the following agenda ends: "1." Adoption of a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021, No 46-102-01-1; 2. Adoption of a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 July 2021, No 46-102-01-2; 3. Adoption of a second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2021, No 46-102-01-4. 3. To hold an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesday, 7 September 2021, from 9.00 until the end of the items on the following agenda: "1." Second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2021; 2. Second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the State Social Security Budget Act 2021; 3. Second vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 [[Noise and lines.]] Dear colleagues, on your reaction at least at first reading, I see some disagreement. Now you will surely come up with arguments and procedural arguments that Parliament cannot make such a decision that this is a matter of procedure and so on. Of course, it's your will. You can say this, but for the last time I ask you to show your mind, to show responsibility, let us accept the update of the budget at second reading, so that we do not leave the state in a crisis state in order to show at least this responsibility and guarantee stability of Bulgaria, security of the Bulgarian people in the coming crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My speech is in connection with the previous statement. Firstly, I understood that there was an understanding of a reduction in the time limits for viewing the budget at second reading. Since the meeting was going live, I didn't hear it and I didn't see it. Is it not a procedural grip that more than 30 people from the BSP parliamentary group voted extension, or am I mistaken?! The adoption of laws on the run has also been criticised in the past by the National Assembly when it comes to changing the electoral legislation, and we have all been criticised for it. Is it the President of the Republic of Bulgaria who made a condition before the second term, the budget update, or am I mistaken? If the update of the budget is important to the country, it is good to do precisely, detailedly and with the corresponding calculations, not on the run, to go to elections in the October Revolution. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. For a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Babikan, unlike you, who saw the meeting on TV, I was at this meeting and we received an understanding from the representatives of We are coming! "That by the deadline they would support the reduction of the deadline "Friday to 6:00 p.m. We understand very well, and if you insist very much, we may ask to return the multimedia recording of the meeting. But it's not that important. Why have 32 or 30 MPs of the parliamentary group supported this proposal? Because at 9:30 was awarded the term of office of the party's president, the vote was at 11:00 p.m. 12:00 p.m. or 1:00 p.m. I can't remember what time, and at 20.00 pm we heard the statement of the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, who said there was no chance and no prospect for a government. And if there is no chance and there is no prospect of forming a government, what is the point of this budget being voted for a month for example? With the same argument that you said a serious look, responsible proposals, we invited them to talk about the budget, on the proposals. Unfortunately, a part of the parliamentary forces did not want to come to such a conversation to talk about the budget, what can and cannot, what is appropriate and what is inappropriate, what will blow up the budget and what will not blow up the budget, but you do not want such a conversation to have! Since you don't want to have such a conversation, the proposals for a constitutional term are being made by Friday... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I'm not talking about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u17	Mr. Svilensky, you're running out of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u18	...and for this reason, we are now proposing that the deadline return to the way it is under the Rules and that the budget in plenary be seen in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u20	Mr. Babikan, they obviously did not understand that these were talks about some cabinet that was burned anyway, and the budget is the most important bill for the country, in this case, and amendment, and responsibility only of the National Assembly. In the Committee on Budget and Finance, we have made it clear that we will not accept budget corrections that are not with accurate and good calculations. Populist fixes something some money somewhere we put and somewhere we wave, and let my colleagues fix me will not be accepted! This was also the reason why, Mr. Babikan, to want for these working days the 4th, 5th and 6th, which are holidays for others, we MPs to work and make our proposals as required by the best standard of law. Apparently, there are other phone calls that somehow dictate to one or another how to make a difference. Personally, phone calls were never important to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Here you go, Mr. Sandov for a third line. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, the first line was taken by Mr. Svilensky. You can't have all the lines from the same parliamentary group. There are other willing ones. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Babikan, perhaps someone at this meeting at the wrong time has nodded to understand the BSP colleagues that you actually agree. Now do you understand why we do not go to such meetings, which are actually empty PR, and which are then interpreted in the way Mrs. Ninova estimated? [[Applause from DB]] That's why we don't go to these meetings, especially when they're supposed to be about forming a government, but actually about updating the budget. We made a proposal, we aired our representatives to discuss the budget, but the BSP did not want to talk to them. Instead, they use this third term as taking hold of the mast of the Aurora and trying with it to act as governors in the country, to set the agenda of the National Assembly and the agenda of the Committee on Budget and Finance. And, notice, they call that reasonable. Notice, fellow Members, the deadline for submission of proposals expires by Friday. Who exactly will process all these proposals that, on Saturday, at an extraordinary meeting, the Budget Committee will examine them? You do understand that this is unreasonable? It is unreasonable because of simple things, such as deadlines, human resources, and to a large extent the expected proposals that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sandov. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Let's finish this procedure. Yes, I'll give you the floor of procedure, but let's finish the other one. For the doppelganger? Mr. Babikan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u24	From Mrs. Nino's statement I found out that there are some parties at the protest and others. I understand that BSP is no longer a party to the protest, which brings some relief. It is really not good to interpret vitreous words that have not been pronounced. The fact that someone respected a BSP meeting and had talks about a budget update... [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u25	Mr. Chenchev, you will be able to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u26	...you shouldn't get... Okay, do you want to make a statement and then we'll continue? It is good that phone calls from another building do not become legislative initiatives of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] If someone wants the budget update to be done qualitatively, he should have the political courage to hold his mandate as long as he needs to? [[Noise and lines.]] Oh, you don't want to, maybe? So you have no political courage. And the President of the Republic can schedule the elections when he has to, and he has the opportunity to schedule them when he wants to. All this could not be at the expense of the quality of the budget update. Don't make fun of the citizens of Bulgaria and their money! [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u27	Is it about procedure, Mr. Popov? Here you go. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Balabanov, Mrs. Atanasova... [[Heckling]] And before that, before you say anything, Mr. Balabanov and Mrs. Atanasova were recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u28	I give them my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u29	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u30	Thank you, Madam President. In order not to speculate from now on, I suggest that the cameras of BNT and the microphones of BNR should be included, as were included at the meeting between the BSP for Bulgaria and there is such a people. All Bulgarian citizens and viewers saw who agreed with what and who did not. I'm asking for a voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I ask for a vote on the proposal made. Vote 207 MPs: 190, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Please direct transmission from BNR and BNT. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Me, too, unlike the talkers here, I attended this meeting. At this meeting there was a precise and clear recording, broadcast directly on all Bulgarian televisions. This conversation was precisely and clearly articulated with the need for a recent adoption of the budget update. Mrs. Manolova explicitly stated that she agreed that the deadline would be shortened. It has been stated that there is full readiness with proposals between first and second readings to be made, for which you have my respect. I trust you'll keep your word. Unfortunately for me, I can see that one of my colleagues is on holiday. Colleagues, there's obviously no vacation. Bulgarian citizens do not need your vacation. Bulgarian citizens need the work to be done here. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Bulgarian doctors need the funds for those who work on the front line. Hospitals need medicine for both Remdesivir and all other supplies to treat the sick who are increasing from day to day! Two months, colleagues, we've dealt with a lot of nonsense here and we're listening to a minister after a minister, and no law has been passed. One thing must be accepted here in this Chamber, this is the update of the state budget. [[Heckling]] BSP will not be your fig leaf to do whatever you want! It's no coincidence that we accept... We made the proposal today because at our meetings with industry organisations, with employers, with trade unions and so on, they said the same thing: ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we urgently need the adoption of the budget update and we have stated to the office and the president that, even in its original version, we agree in support of this update. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I do not understand your desire to prolong this as long as possible. Either state that you want to make a clear majority with a government that will bear the responsibility in the coming months and years, if we have to, or accept this update that has been proposed to us and give peace to the Bulgarian citizens. Otherwise everything else will be an ugly populism that will be at the expense of Bulgarian citizens and at the expense of their money. If someone has a claim regarding what happened at this meeting, they can put a multimedia here and see all the frame by frame. Everything was clear, precise and transparent. Who gets a call from which office gets a call, it's none of our business. You really do understand that! Accept the offer and continue the work we have been chosen for. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For lines? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, we all agree and we are aware that we need to update the budget quickly, but can I add the word "quality" besides "quickly"? All of us in this Chamber were strongly opposed to unnecessary haste, the adoption of laws on the knee, the submission of proposals at 17 to 5. Let's say something, once and for all, keep our word! Would you like to start today? I understand that for everyone, the election campaign has already started, but I ask you very much when we talk about the state budget, the most important law in the country on which our entire country is really standing, not to approach it in this populist way and to rush forward with proposals from today. We have all firmly stated that we will support the update of the budget. I ask you very much and I appeal again: let this update be very good in addition to fast! Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, yes, at the meeting, held for an attempt to make a government of the third term, we from We are coming!............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How high-quality or not, the budget could be adopted the update of all three budgets, but this would cross the possibility that this Parliament would adopt any other law. Ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, this will cut through the possibility of discussing and adopting these laws in the Chamber the Law on Specialized Courts, the Law on National Security, the Law on the Bureau of Security. In this way, you cease the possibility that even one law outside the budget will be passed by the forty-sixth Parliament, and you condemn judicial reform not just to begin, but to be forgotten about it at all. So, the parliamentary group of.. Stand up BG! It will not be a fig leaf of BSP's desire to cut the possibility of examining the laws relating to the judiciary. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u37	Thank you. For a third line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, my respects to you, but if memory serves me correctly, you have spoken correctly, you have taken account of the budget, but I remember you said that you are ready to submit proposals immediately. After all, we sat here for two months, and the budget was aged in the National Assembly. Why did it happen that at the last moment we suddenly want to prolong the work of this Parliament, which, in your opinion, is obviously doomed? For God's sake, let's make a majority and form a government! The mandate is here and we give it to you. Get together, broadcast ministers and have a cabinet. We'll work for months and pass any bill, Mrs. Manolova. After all, Mr. Babikan heard from you. Come on, there's plenty of time to form this majority. We'll do the judicial reform, we'll replace the Attorney General, we'll do anything. How would you like us to pass a hundred laws in three days, given that we called a minister after a minister here for two months to listen to them? We've started the mayors. Well, let's get my aunt here and tell her opinion. What does she think of the National Assembly, I apologize? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come on, let's make a government! That's why we invited you, but you're not coming. You don't come for the budget either. I don't understand what's supposed to happen after all.! [[Heckling]] Vacation will have others, not you, understand it! Let's work in the next few days and accept this budget! You have all declared that you have prepared proposals between first and second readings. Let them be imported within these short time limits and dealt with! If not, there is a budget update framework submitted by the Office, which is approved by the Trilateral Council, by the employers, by the trade unions and by whomever you want, but at least to accept it. If there is no clear majority to support certain proposals in this budget, what will be adopted? Unfortunately, nothing at all, colleagues! Therefore, another call: there is still a little time to find a common language for government and to work and to adopt all the other reforms that are needed! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Atanasova, are you still asking for the floor? No. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the whole time, while both Mrs. Ninova and colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria made their speeches, I felt that I was at a congress of the BCP or a congress of the BSP. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]] Mrs. Ninova with a directive almost obliged us the Commission when to work and when not to work. Mrs. Ninova, you cannot tell the Committee on Budget and Finance when to work, that is all I want to say. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The second, if you want to help the budget and the revenue side of the budget, be so good, along with the entire parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, to look into the Commission on European Union issues sufficiently thoroughly the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, which is a major revenue part of the budget! Because without this Recovery and Sustainability Plan being adopted by the European Commission, we will have minus 1 billion and 600 million. I don't know if you're aware of this thing. The next thing that is very important, and I want to make it clear, is that the budget and budget amendment of the State, the NHIF and the NHIF are not dealt with immediately by the Budget Committee. I don't know how many mandates you're already MPs here and you're still making suggestions that seem absolutely populist by all accounts. And the next thing you know, the Budget and Finance Committee has worked hard enough on a tight schedule. Colleagues from your parliamentary group, together with Vice-President and members of the Budget and Finance Committee, have agreed this schedule! We've talked to them about this schedule. What happened from Friday to today in order to change your mind " 31 MPs voted for these deadlines, and suddenly you changed them?! This erratic behaviour is not characteristic of responsible Members of the National Assembly, as you claim to be. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, DB and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u41	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. A line? Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Karimanski, the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Budget Committee is not Cornelia Nino's decision or non-decision of the National Assembly. And do not speculate with a congress of the BCP, because it was much harder to become a delegate to a congress of the BCP than a MP in any already National Assembly! [[(Sighs:) Whoo!.................................................................................................]] Many may have dreamed of being delegates to a BCP convention. [[Radio.]] But let's get back to the point. Mr. Karimanski, in your proposal, in your chronogram, a chronogram project for the Budget Commission writes: You were talking to Mrs. Nino or how did you schedule a meeting of parliament on September 7th?! And now that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is proposing that the budget be looked at, you say: but why would there be an extraordinary meeting? Well, to look at the budget that you predicted in your chronogram. Here's September 7 in the hall... [[Shows sheet.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u43	Small budgets. Two small budgets, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u44	It says: September 7th, in Hall. Budget of the Ministry of Education and Education. And we are adding one more point to the state budget. [[Noise, lines and laughter from ISN, CB and IBGN.]] And I ask you: from 3 to 11 September, what will the Budget Committee do with the proposals for a second vote and what does it do until 3 September? So let's get back to the phone calls..... if there really are no phone calls for the budget to be adopted after September 15th? Let's see if there are any such phone calls, because for the others I guarantee you that there is none, and anyone in the parliamentary group can guarantee it. But let's see if there are any who want to delay the adoption of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u45	Mr. Svilensky, your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u46	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u47	Thank you. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u48	Dear Mr. Karimanski, this is an example of the classic separation of the National Assembly, in general to politicians from the real problems of the people who were put up during our meetings with trade unions and employers. No one is in a hurry here, because here no one or few people, really little, create a product, few people endure all this incompetence, which is currently raging in this National Assembly, because it is the ordinary Bulgarian citizens who will pay this price. You said how the Commission had worked very hard. Just to remind you that this committee has been working very recently, because your first priorities, including your group, were to set up committees for the "Bujaka" -- a committee in response to the "Rosenets" -- to measure one with the other oligarch -- to compete with whom the oligarch is bigger, who has taken more than the sea, who has taken less than the sea. After all, you have wasted valuable time on this National Assembly with things that are not important, but cannot be a priority at this time for Bulgaria. And now you're talking about how much you've worked on this committee is just ridiculous because this committee has worked extremely little. If you wanted to solve the real problems of the people, of the industries sector of the sector of farmers, you could start with these committees with the Budget, and start working on the real problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u49	Thank you. Mr. Karimansky's third line? Here you go. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Mr. Popov, the lines take turns by the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, the budget has been paid: one July, the other in early August, has not passed a month. So speculating with two months is absurd. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Secondly, who was the initiator to set up these committees? What about us? What were you doing? You also looked at, called ministers to make speeches... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u51	Mr. Danailov, your line is to Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u52	All of us were the initiative to set up committees, to set up meetings and to start working on these committees. I mean, you're full of shit right now. [[Applause from ICN and DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. Mr. Karimanski for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to tell you that the Commission has started working immediately on the day on which it was voted in this National Assembly. If you don't believe me, ask Professor Gechev and Mr. Kadyev here, in this room, as well as Mr. Danchev. They are members of the Commission. The second thing, in the budget and finance committee's schedule, we have very clearly indicated when the budget is adopted. And speculating from here that on the seventh day we accept all three budgets is absolutely unworthy of you! Indecent and indecent behavior you have about what you suggest as populism to MPs and voters! The next thing I would also like to say about the budget, the budget should be agreed on any cost item with the Minister of Finance in order to see if the revenue portion can be covered. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is the practice of the Budget Committee. I guess you know better than I do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u55	This practice has led the state to this situation!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! We voted against the extension of the deadline, we voted against the revision of the budget, the second was rather symbolic. Yesterday, information came out that by 885 million revenues exceeded the cost. That means there's money, don't worry about it. Yes, there are some things that need to be done, they are rather technical, they are not some reformist policies to be made in the budget update. Such can be done in the budget, and it can be done by a regular government, excuse me. We are now witnessing a discussion here that has another purpose. Let's face it, no one here is talking about the budget update right now. We're talking about when the parliamentary elections will be. The update of the budget was submitted by Mr. Radev in order to delay time because he does not want to, and said it publicly, to have elections 2 in 1. And it will depend on him, we will set a date for him now, but then he can delay as much as the current parliament wants and eventually turn out that the parliamentary elections will be somewhere in December. Then there will come a more important issue than the update of the budget. The question of the 2022 budget will come to light. Will there be a parliament at this time, will there be a government at that time? This issue is even more important than the budget update, because this is a matter of two or three months! Again I say to you, let us not be hypocritical. We are talking about the date on which the presidential and parliamentary elections will be held and whether this date will be the same! And if there's any calls because there's talk of calls here, these calls are somewhere from there! Who benefits from 2 in 1 and who benefits from 2 in 1 is the big argument! Otherwise, fig leaves, now so embarrassing that no one wants to become a fig leaf, I find it very interesting. That's a shame. What if there was a government here, and here I agree with Mrs. Ninova if you had supported Mrs. Ninova's mandate, there would have been an update, and everything. Why is it necessary to have a deadline by September 7th? Why does it have to be until September 7th? Well, let's bring in these technical things that need to be continued, some measures that are planned in the budget anyway, the money is there and we go to elections so that we can adopt a budget for 2022 later, because in the end it will turn out that we will not be able to, within this year, have no budget for the other. Then what do we do? Then who will become the fig leaf? Radev? He won't go along with it. He's always hanging out. Or he yells: Prime Minister to say. The Prime Minister is calling: the health minister to say. The Health Minister says: people say. Are they going to save the crisis? Scatters! Scatters! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And now they want to, come on, if you can, push the update a little bit, get busy here, have a serious debate with policies! We're gonna save people with the update! If we can pat the ball a little bit and the parliamentary elections will go after the President because it will take them to win GERB. And if GERB wins them, the President will be in an uncomfortable situation, it will become very uncomfortable. It will turn out that everything he's talked about in the last few years has suffered such a collapse that no one wants to become a fig leaf even! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] And that's why he says, let the election be later. And we're going to debate this now. Why? Which one of us here benefits from this job? What benefit do Bulgarian citizens have? Do not violate the constitutional spirit with elections 2 in 1! In America, they make 5 in 1 election in presidential elections! In Bulgaria in 2011 there was a local and presidential 2 in 1 "No one came to mind about the constitutional spirit! Now we have started to think about how to update and how to make the president comfortable because he has become very weak because now everything needs to have a service government, there is Boyko Rashkov, now give, if possible, and the date is convenient for him! This is the debate today! And don't be fooled by flying around here to get everyone about the update and push any more, there were more laws to be passed. Support Mrs. Nino, Mrs. Manolova, and all laws will be passed. Back her up! Why are you fighting here? Well, if you're fighting, how are you gonna pass laws? You've all had a fight. So let us reduce the deadline and go to elections, because keep in mind some of you will suffer a lot. [[Laughter]] He'll take Mr. Petkov to make a party...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u58	Saken!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u59	...then we'll have to have an even heavier debate here. I don't know, then we'll have to extend this parliament another four or five months, so it can structure itself. And I see it's a very unpleasant topic for everyone! For us, it is not extremely pleasant. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u61	To bring some order into the chaos, Mr. Bikov. [[noise and lines]] Well, let's say... I understand that you want to be Mrs. Ninova's skin list. [[Laughter, excitement, applause from IHN and IBGNI]] , however, to be clear that she does not want either those calling: the elections being out there, they want the October Revolution before the presidential apparently. Something you didn't understand, so I'd like to put this order in order so we're clear. And as for the time limits declared by Mrs. Ninova to hold the term of office until September 15th, there is no problem for elections two in one, on any of the dates. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Mihailov, for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u63	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Bikov! I am very upset that the cameras of BNT 1 and the microphones of BNR are on now and there is a paradoxical situation. You called the Bulgarian President Smoky. I do not know if there was a Bulgarian president in whose institution had almost broken into, threatened him that by raising your fist, you would get a fist, had he been placed in an attempt at total isolation from the government and now he, as a result of all this, had he become weak?! But the scary thing is here, which happens that your parliamentary group, through you, who are a very good speaker, is trying to bully everyone else, make fun of them and claim that you or someone else, or a third... And therefore, colleagues, please, let's be a little more serious, let's stop with the stories about the fig leaves, so the leaves don't turn into dust. Let us decide whether the nation really needs a budget adjustment, and that is within deadlines that are possible, clear and not about arguments that will last for months. Let's vote, let's not practice rhetoric, because we're getting ridiculous in front of 7 million people. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u64	Thank you. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Gutsanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! We have two questions ahead of us right now, and there is no reason to pretend that we do not understand what this is about. Or in the fastest and best way we accept the update of the budget, which is vital for our country and there is no dispute on this issue in any one, I am convinced, in this Chamber and outside the Chamber, and we are going to early elections. Or the other option: indeed all these laws, which a number of colleagues spoke about just now, and are important to be adopted, but in order for this to happen, it is necessary for a government, and in order for this to happen, then support the third term, to make a stable government, to adopt the laws, and indeed the state to be in a state that is necessary. So to meet the coming crises outside and in anyway the difficult and difficult situation created by the previous government. Those are the two approaches, and stop playing cat and mouse. Let us do what is most sensible: support a stable government or go as fast as possible in early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gutsanov. For the back, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I have nothing to add to Mr. Gutsanov's line. She, from what I understand, was in favour of what I said. Professor Mikhailov, we don't bully anyone. You've been teasing yourself for months. Here it became a leaffall and leaves fell, and it became a series: then you gather, and then you part, and then you quarrel, and someone intrigues you, and again of your people. [[Elevator bell dings]] We stand here, you put us in the middle, and we look, and we can't believe our eyes sometimes. [[Elevator bell dings]] One day like this, the next day on the other. [[Laughter and applause by GERB-SDS.]] [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] You can't make a government, colleagues, that's the problem. You don't know how to do it, you don't know how to negotiate obviously, you don't know what to negotiate, and that's why we have to go back to early parliamentary elections to see if the third time something will happen perhaps in some other format?! Since you couldn't do it twice, and you're doing it the same way twice, you must have made a mistake. If you want to, try five times to do it this way, it won't work again. It's about whether the president is soft. Okay, he's not soft. He's gentle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u68	Please, Mr. Bikov, I'm making a note. [[Heckling]] Mr. Stanev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u69	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues from all parliamentary groups and in particular you from the BSP! I want to tell you a parable, a very brief one, a very instructive one. On one occasion, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, Lie met Truth and said: "See what a beautiful day it was. " They reached a pool and Lie said, "Do you want to go for a swim?" Look, the water is good? Do you know what happened here? The truth reached into the water, and the water was really pleasant, warm. Both of them stripped naked and entered to bathe, but Lie went out, took Truth's clothes, and fled, and Truth remained naked, and when it came out of the pool, people saw it and turned their eyes away because they were ashamed of its nakedness. Then the Truth went back into the pool and hid there forever, and the Lie, dressed in the garments of Truth, continues to roam. Don't do this! Don't put on anyone else's clothes! Don't hide the lie with the clothes of truth! Don't manipulate! And Mr. Bikov, you don't know if you've become... And he's gone?! Is Mr. Bikov out yet? Have you become Mrs. Ninova's lawyer? I don't get it, do I?! You're not the devil's lawyer, are you? And you, Mr. Ivanov, don't be afraid of John Travolta, he's in Hollywood. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. For lines? I can't see. Mr. Balabanov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Behind BSP's idea to withdraw the adoption of the budget update quickly, respectively, to return and the mandate not completed, is the face of the backstage. Why? Because, Honourable, if that happens again, we will not realize our idea of the Witness Protection Bureau coming out of the judiciary and going under the hat of the Ministry of Justice. We will not realize this idea because it will not be able to pass at second reading. This will automatically benefit individuals, such as Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev, Boyko Borisov and a former President of the National Assembly from Kardzhali, who quickly realized that the cynicism of buckets does not bring special benefits and revenues... [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u72	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u73	...and now decided to play a collaborator...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u74	Mr. Balabanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u75	...to be present in this building at all. [[Applause from IHN]] Because the sovereign considered it simply not to be a representative of the people. All these personalities will retain the advantage of protecting them NSO and continue to use this body paid with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer for personal needs. That's an understatement. I don't know if BSP realizes it, but this move on their part proves again that they play in favor of the disgusting status quo. In recent weeks Cornelia Ninova has been trying to look in the media space like she's been riding the black horse again, but these actions show that she's up to her neck in the muddy and brown water of the backyard. I regret to tell you this from the most representative stands in Bulgaria, but I have the opportunity to look at your hypocritical faces and to be ashamed of you. I'm ashamed of you because you're willing to kill each other and eat each other for the sake of gaining power, seeking to destroy the meaning of the sentence behind my back, and the personalities who created this building and filled it with meaning. [[(noise and lines, shouts:]] [[Noise and lines.]] On this occasion, colleagues, please calm down! On this occasion, I will conclude with some words of the great Al Pacino, who is transformed into the image of the blind General Frank Slade of the one-named great film "Feeling of a woman," I quote to you colleagues, remember these words: "There is no scarier view than the amputated spirit for him there is no prosthesis. And here, my dear, she has collapsed. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u76	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u77	Dear Mr. Balabanov, I congratulate you for reading smoothly what you had written and had either written to you! It is absurd to the current situation because you had the opportunity as a mandate carrier to solve these problems. You make a working office, you start: Special Prosecutor's Office, Security Bureau and solve problems one by one. Well, you didn't, and we should have, in your absence, voted for the personal reasons of your candidate for prime minister, you deserted that responsibility. Now you're about to desert from the last chance, because at 11:00 we've asked you out and if you want to, and you're holding on to these priorities, you're welcome to a conversation, tell me what time, in what format, how and which people to implement these policies, if you really care about them? Our doubt, speaking of behind-the-scenes, is that you actually need this for a long time, because as we speak here about policies and working government, some are talking about posts and you first started this topic. Who wanted these posts, who fought for the head of the BNB? According to the opposition, however, wanting to master one of the most important state institutions - Bulgarian National Bank, prepared candidate. Obviously, you've already laid down and tracked his selection, and now you need more time. Is that what this is about? Is that why we're wasting our time? And our position, Mr. Balabanov, is absolutely clear. If there's going to be a working government, it's worth the time to be an investee. Since it will not be there, we should not waste Bulgaria's time, we should go to elections, return the mandate and update the budget. Who is interested in losing and what is this interest, you should say?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Mr. Stanev, for the second line. Mr. Stanev and Mrs. Capon. Mr. Mihailov, I will not give you the floor for a line, as Mr. Bojankov has already taken it for your group. [[Reply.]] It's in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u79	Mr. Bojankov, all the honourable MPs, Madam Chairman! How do you not understand that drawing up a cabinet has nothing to do with voting on the state budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u80	The line is for Mr. Balabanov, Mr. Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u81	How can you not understand that?! This is not in the mandate of the executive authority. It is here, in parliament this law is being made and here can be changed. What concerns the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office here, only here, not by a cabinet [[Applause from IHN]] Not from an office. It's a good thing we're on TV to see what honest lies you're telling! That's not really what you're doing! What does the office have to do with the Special Court and the D.A.'s office? Can someone explain it to me, Mr. Bojankov? Office!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u82	Mr. Stanev, it's not Mr. Bozhankov's line, it's Mr. Balabanov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u83	Well, Mr. Balabanov, I'm telling you! [[Extreme applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u84	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u85	Mr. Balabanov, the cradle has really broken, but at least last for Bulgarian citizens to do quality what we need to do. And to explain to BSP colleagues how long the deadlines are, there will be independence of the MPs, so that they can really make a budget and have normal elections, although they are extraordinary. So there's no problem at all. And as for posts, it would have been good to really have agreed to change the posts Boyko Borisov appointed, one way or another the KEWRC had expired, and the BNB. Because that's another resource. Unfortunately, however, this Parliament does not have the legitimacy to do so in the way it should and the time during which we have quality procedures, but quality update we can do and this time we have it. [[Applause from IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Balabanov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Bojankov, the BNB case is long gone. So remember what the chronology is, first. Secondly, we really all need to make an effort. Budget update will happen anyway, but it should happen on the basis of a serious debate, discussion, because it does not just have to happen by Friday, by Saturday or Monday. Something has changed in your worldview as well as in another political formation in just a few hours. I don't know, I really don't know why! So let us discuss the budget more quickly. Either way, it will be accepted, but to hurry now until Friday, by Saturday there is no value! Mrs. Ninova, you are not the person to set the budget committee's agenda. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u88	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. Mr. Nenkov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as sad as it is what is happening in this Chamber for more than an hour, I am glad that Mr. Philip Popov proposed that this be broadcast on BNT and on BNR so that people can once again see what kind of impotent parliament this country currently has. A Parliament that can give birth to nothing but scandals and fights. A Parliament that cannot give birth for the second time in a row to a regular government and fulfill all the great ideas, promises that you have made to your constituents. It is not about whether it will be two, three or five more days, or less the time limit for a proposal between first and second votes, but about something else. Do you remember last week what Finance Minister Asen Vassilev said from this tribune? He said: "You have your responsibility. " This was the essential sentence that actually shows tomorrow who and how will wash their hands. Remember when the update of this budget came in? It was submitted as soon as it became clear that a government with the mandate of "There is such a people" would not happen. From then on, it was clear that we were going to another early election. I very much doubt that neither the Minister of Finance nor the government led by President Radev would be in a situation where he knew there was or would have a regular government would have submitted an update of the budget. He would say: after me there is a regular government, there is a majority, to think and to deal with the crisis, with economic measures, social measures, health care and so on. He was going to wash his hands because all he cared about was his choices and his re-election. That is why I said last week that a self-respecting finance minister, self-respecting government, who thinks that he will manage and that he will implement this budget in the next two years, I am sure that he would never have allowed himself to submit an update, given that this Parliament has absolutely degraded. A Parliament that has no clear majority! A Parliament that, as Assen Vassilev said, will be responsible for what will happen to the state budget. In time, the media will ask Mr. Vassilev: "Well, why did it happen with the finances of the state? And he'll say, "I'm sorry, it was parliament's will to do it this way, we have a duty to do it." Actually, let me tell you, colleagues, what's the problem? The problem really is that an hour should rather be going to elections, because this Parliament has nothing to give birth to. It has already been rightly said how many weeks, and by including the last parliament, that he has given birth to nothing, that he has not made any important law. Not one! Now you are looking to extend the deadline between the first and second vote of the budget, but in three days they have adopted the Election Code. It's not much less important, especially when it comes to democracy, is it?! It didn't bother you back then! Let's remember something else. Do you remember during the second type of crisis, when it was November, these months somewhere, right in the midst of the budget procedure for adopting the budget for 2021, however, you, colleagues, wanted the government's resignation without any budget for the next year! Were you in the way back then, or weren't you in the way of that thing? Were you concerned about people or not? Because then I got the impression you didn't care at all. You just wanted to realize the glory you gained from the protests, pretending to be big Protestants, so you could materialize it in early elections. You didn't care at all about the Kovid, nor did anyone try to help the government in any way! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] That's the truth, colleagues, and it's nice not to admit it, but at least when you think about it, remember these things and say: hey, maybe there's something true about this thing! Therefore, colleagues, I suggest the following: take off your suits, land on the ground and go to the elections rather, because people need to say their will and part rather to make some responsible government to implement some programme. I am really scared right now, in this Parliament, in this bulk, what will give birth between the first and second votes this state budget? Who the hell's gonna do it?! I'm sorry! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, we have listened carefully to your thoughts and conclusions, full of very factual inaccuracies, by the way, such as the claim that the first term has been returned and only after that the budget has been submitted. No, it's not like that! There is such a people who have returned the mandate on 6 August and the budgets have been submitted on 30 July. You can see it from the website of the National Assembly, i.e. before the return of the first term. So speculation here is unnecessary. Mr. Nenkov, from your speech we heard the two most important points, which concern GERB the most. The budget should not have a point. Budget update must not be in order for the President and his caretaker government to be tied in the next three months, to have chaos in the state and you to make your political campaign based on this chaos. Point two. Let us urgently go to elections, contrary to the wishes of the Bulgarian people, who wish not to go to elections. Yes, the situation is as it is, Mr. Nenkov. This parliament is on its way to being disbanded and going to elections. What this Parliament can end before it goes to elections is an update of the budget. Because you know very well that part of the costs to be incurred cannot be done without a sanction from the National Assembly because the ceilings have been achieved. Here we are also talking about the costs associated with the first-line medics, which are our heroes, and will be our heroes, and should be further supported. Here is also related to the cost of saving the Bulgarian business, which suffered enough for the fourth wave to kill it, and we must act responsibly against the Bulgarian business. Here we are also talking about the costs related to tourism, to agriculture, costs which we will offer between first and second readings. And yes, whether the deadline will be three days shorter or three days longer for proposals between first and second readings, this should not affect the quick work of the National Assembly to gather after the proposals and accept the update of the budget. Think constructively because this National Assembly should not remain in history only with its scandals, as were previous National Assembly meetings. By the way, the National Assembly between 2017 and 2021 cannot be said to have done much more work in the four years. He made thousands of scandals, including bars, including stacks, including some drones that were sent over Mr. Borisov's house to check it out. So let's do this constructively, and enough of this scandal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u92	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Here you go for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, we are under the impression that a short time ago one of your speakers here did not mention his name, said: "You put us here in the middle and we are sitting listening. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I said I didn't want to mention his name! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] So he gave you this place to listen to. And here you have to answer the question why no one wants to talk to you even about an office anymore, at two national meetings. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Madam President, can you put some sort of order in this room and get into character?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u94	Please, no yelling, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u95	So don't pretend to be some people you're watching, and you're inexcusable for absolutely nothing. I'll tell you why. We were just talking about some phone calls, Mr. Nenkov. I don't know about phone calls, but I've proven to know about managing the state through SMS messages from your leader. With SMS and running the country and bringing her here. You brought her to Parliament to disagree on matters! Because the main purpose of this Parliament, with the exception of you, is to get rid of the government as it was 12 years of evil. Immaculate because of the thousands of scandals that were created! And if this country hadn't been run, Mr. Nenkov, with fear, with manipulations from you, and we all know that this country wouldn't be like that now. And now, you see, you're telling us, we're sitting here, we're looking, we're waiting for an election. Honourable Members, a budget update should be there and before me it was said by at least five MPs from different groups. There has to be, because I'm gonna ask you what you're gonna explain when the restaurants come out again when the different industries come out?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u96	Mr. Chenchev, your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u97	Then I'll ask you all what you're going to explain.!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u98	That's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u99	Yes, but I'm asking for an extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u100	Mr. Chenchev, there's no extension, you're in line. Mr. Zarkov specifically remarked to me on Friday to observe the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u101	You only make a remark to our representatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u102	There's no time, it's a line, it's limited by regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u103	A moment ago there were insulting qualifications from here, you didn't make a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u104	I made everyone I needed, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u105	No, you didn't. Return the transcript. So, Mr. Nenkov, that's my line to you. You sit, you watch, but remember, we don't forget what you've done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Chenchev, I don't know for 12 years, but now it's beautiful! Now it's flowers and roses, the third early elections we'll make. The head of the office is hiding from the theme with a Kovid and what the state will do. Yesterday I am listening to the Prime Minister say: the responsibility lies entirely in the hands of the Health Minister. Political responsibility. They asked a media guy. The Health Minister says, well, the experts will say. As I understand it, the citizens ask: what should we do? So I think it's very good now, I agree with you. As for your line, in fact, Mr. Chenchev, we support your proposal. I don't know if you understand. And Mr. Bikov just spoke on the subject that we are actually about your proposal. I don't see anything wrong. It has to do with running the budget procedure, if that's how much you've decided to vote it, and going to early elections, because that's normal. Now we're going to change judicial reform, we're going to change the SJC, we're going to fix NSO. Sorry, but this is so serious right now that it's not even worth commenting on. So the election is a solution. There's no other alternative. Mr. Delchev, I think we've been coalition partners, I don't know, or you've forgotten, exactly the years you've been talking about. And since you were also talking about what he was doing and what he wasn't doing, I even remember, but I don't want to quote a colleague of yours sitting in front of you at our first meeting when we saw each other's parliamentary groups having an informal meeting, how I was accused of Parliament's rating, about how they were now going to raise Parliament's rating. The other day I was looking at a survey of a sociological agency, and when I saw Parliament's ratings, they'd probably stop measuring it, it wouldn't make any sense. I don't want to name names. This is on this occasion and on what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. To speak, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is really nice that today's meeting is broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television, I hope the Bulgarian citizens will watch at the moment because they do not know what they will see in the news as a report. So I would rather address the Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us right now. Dear compatriots, this parliament is full of hypocrites. Absolutely this Parliament is filled mainly and mainly with hypocrites. Today is BSP's day of hypocrisy. What the BSP proposes in the form of concern to adopt the budget quickly, it is about reducing the National Assembly by five to seven days. Five to seven days! And the reason is not the budget. The reason is that if this Parliament is not reduced by five days, or by seven days, it will accept the removal of the Bureau of Protection from the control of the Attorney General. He can accept the closure of the Special Court and the prosecution. He will adopt a new Law on the National Assembly and the National Assembly will only guard the President, Prime Minister and President of the National Assembly. Therefore BSP drag along with GERB, I suspect with DPS this will not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u110	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u111	I said suspect. If the DPS disprove me now and vote against the BSP proposal, it will become clear in this House. But at the moment GERB and BSP are as complete as they were in the previous parliaments, posing as opposition. [[Applause from IHN.]] Mrs. Ninova has long and irrigationly explained to me, Mrs. Ninova, including that you are a party to the protest and are not on the status quo, and it is good to see you as such. Today your hypocrisy is obvious and you again cuddled with GERB. So, dear Bulgarian compatriots, if this proposal of BSP passes, they should send a bouquet of flowers and chocolates to Ivan Geshev. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For lines? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u113	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yordanov, BSP colleagues and I have been in a very serious conflict for ten years. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Ninova and I are opponents, and sometimes we've overreacted in our speeches, but I'll tell you something in her defense, no matter how bad it sounds. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by IHN.]] Ms. Ninova did not go to the movies with Mr. Borisov, nor was she his minister, nor was she his ombudsman. [[Private applause from GERB.]] We may have any kind of attitude to her, but she on the rug wasn't unlike the leaders of everyone else in this room. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. For a second line? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u115	I didn't understand where you put us because we weren't in this parliament to go on some rug. [[Noise and lines.]] And otherwise incredibly wonderful view is how GERB protect BSP, and in the previous parliaments GERB and BSP voted together when it comes to Ivan Geshev, for a budget in which to spit the decision of the Bulgarian people for a lev subsidy. So today is a really good day for Bulgarian democracy, as was said in the dawn after 1989 to polish the ties between the two parties of the status quo. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u116	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For a personal explanation, Mrs. Nino, come in. A personal explanation of what? On Mr. Yordanov's initial statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u117	At least 17 speeches. Basically, you all played on my back and my name. I think I'm entitled to say something about this. If you don't have an argument and deal with my name well. A good thought of a woman of value who I very much like: The great minds what they do with ideas, the average ones with events, and the small ones with people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You've done a good job of dealing with me, getting your emotions out. I hope for some reason from now on. I've endured so much more than what you're doing today. I assure you that Borisov is a more serious opponent and we fought for five years. So there's nothing you can do to me more than what I've been through with this guy, but now a little bit to the point. [[IHN lines]] Yes, yes, you can instill the lie about GERB and BSP today, but really never in my political career in my life in office or office of Borisov. Never! As well as Slavi Trifonov's office. As in Hristo Ivanov's office and everyone's office, not to mention them. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Never! Because I understand politics differently because I want it to be done transparently and publicly and because I am trying to set a personal example of it. And because that way no one can hold me according to their will, their money, their posts and their power. I am also a free man as such and, above all, as chairman of the group, of course, leave my personal things, I stand before you with an attempt to refute the arguments you have put forward, why not adopt a quick update of the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u118	It's a personal explanation, Mrs. Ninova, and your time is running out. You have three seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u119	A major argument was that it took time for a calm and reasonable explanation between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u120	Mrs. Ninova, your time is up. You proclaimed last week compliance with time and procedures. Please don't break it for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u121	Of course, ma'am. Please let my speech grow into a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u122	If you want, I'll give you the floor after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u123	Yeah, now I want to make a statement. I hereby terminate the personal explanation and request the floor of speech. We have time for the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u124	Set the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u125	Do I have a say in this?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u126	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u127	Thank you. So, let's have a little serious talk now that you've been playing with the time and patience of the people. You said with an argument that it takes time for serious and stable consideration of the budget update between first and second readings. Dear colleagues, we adopted the budget at first reading on the 27th. Today we're the first. It's been five days. Have you tabled any amendments between first and second readings in five days? Did you bring it in?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u128	Yeah, we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u129	Do you know how many proposals have been submitted between first and second readings? Here you come up with a thesis: it takes time, we can't rush and push it. Well, what did you do for five days? I can tell you. Under state social security, nothing. You want a pension recalculation, don't you? Where have you been for five days? Now you're yelling, give us two more weeks! Five days nothing on state social security. And now you want five days on the beach in Greece and the people will wait. Do you know what other suggestions there are? One, which was submitted by the Democratic Bulgaria. One in five days. And there are two of them: one that reduces money in the Ministry of Tourism for the tourism industry and the same for farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u130	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u131	You're suggesting 300,000 to 395 thousand. That's all you've done in five days. And now you come up with an argument that you need another 15. During the first reading of the budget, you said that you were absolutely ready with the proposals - concrete, calculated. Where are they? Why do you need another 15 days to bring them in? During the preliminary talks we invited the groups to broadcast two people, to sit down and work on the budget update, you said: no, we will not work with you. Dear colleagues, you can talk and suggest whatever you want. We hold on to the facts and the truth. The facts are that there is such a people that failed to make a regular cabinet because they had a fight with the other parties at the protest. Mr. Yordanov, you can talk about hypocrisy today, you can call us whatever you want. Just a week ago, your leader said publicly: The BSP is the most constructive, the most diagnostic and the most sensible party in this Parliament. I quote Slavi Trifonov from public statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u132	And I'll tell.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u133	I'm not talking about what you talked about in the offices. Just the public statements. And that's a fact. We showed reason, dialogue, suggestions and talked to everyone. There is such a people that did not succeed. The President has decided that the third term will be given to us. And this is the only thing the President has in common with the decision of the National Assembly and with the mandates. It's up to us. And we are trying our best to tell you: we want a change in the judiciary, closure of the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office, the Bureau, a change in the structure of the SJC. We want and we signed with you on this. We want hospitals not to be trading companies, so we wrote it down. We want a change in the education system and the schooling system. We want a change in the model of management and procurement without procedures for close companies to power. We want this model to finally be removed, we don't use the words..................... and so on. But to be replaced with something meaningful. And we wrote it. And now to go out and say: BSP is guilty because these things do not happen, on top of everything and related to GERB, I would not call it hypocrisy, it is political division of personality. Not to say anything else, because I don't know much about medicine, but it's a political split of personality. You want in words a change of the management model of the former GERB, IMRO and the support of the DPS. You're blocking it with action. You are the reason the model continues to dig in, to continue to have this self-esteem here against me, to continue Borisov to lecture us from the TVs and to humour us all. Because you refused to make this change. What's your problem? I don't know. Until two weeks ago, we weren't a party to the status quo, we were the good guys, we were the dialogue guys. Now suddenly, when things are about to happen, you're looking for a reason why they don't. Well, look for it somewhere else! We continue to want this model changed and therefore we want a regular government. We didn't take this term for ourselves or for posts. That's what we told you. Neither do I want to be Prime Minister nor should I be. Neither do we want to put you ready ministers on the table, nor should we put them on you. Come and talk to me. Well, we're not talking. As there is no, you are the ones who leave the model in power, you are the ones who give it air and opportunity to trench and don't be angry if we see it coming back in the next election. Don't be angry with anyone but yourself. However, we will be consistent in what we have done for five years because we have suffered it. I don't know from you who's been where, I don't want to say someone here said that for four years where he's been in this model? We have been against him, we have suffered against him because of our group and because of the people who were following us back then in Bulgaria, and now they are following us, before them we have a duty to try the full-fledged mind, regular cabinet, stable majority, change of the model of GERB management and meet the crises that hit the Bulgarian people. Any remaining manipulations, insults and personal attacks we leave to you. Say what you want, say it any way you want, don't bother us. We have a goal, we know how to go towards this goal and we will do it consistently, in principle, honestly and openly before you, dear Bulgarian citizens. We won't be judges of anyone. You will be the judges of any next election. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For a line? Mrs. Kapon, first line, Mr. Yordanov for the second line, third line from another group, Mr. Karimansky, okay. Mrs. Capon, you're retreating, all right. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u135	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, I believed you during the public meeting that you really want us to work together on the update of the budget, to draft proposals on which to reach agreement and thus have a majority of change, at least in terms of the update of the budget. Now it turns out that I was simply misled that you do not have such a intention that you count which MP has made what proposals so far. I don't know if, Mrs. Nino, you were in Borisov's office, on Trifonov, in DPS's office. What all Bulgarian citizens know, however, is that when we were in the square and when Mr. Babikian called you: get out of the parliament and join the Bulgarian people, you, Mrs. Nino, stayed in the parliament, together with GERB and DPS. And as far as endless speculation goes, who in whose office was talking about what? Yes, I spoke to you not publicly and not in front of the media, in my office, in fact, I was ready to come to your office, because it was about the just announced intention to give you the third term. Before that, I spoke with two Vice-Presidents of the BSP, not publicly and not in front of the media sent by you to my cabinet, because I believe that when there is a great purpose to broadcast a government, a regular government of change, talks should be held. Just stop speculating about it! He doesn't honor you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u137	Mrs. Ninova, yes, Slavi said such a thing, it was about the cabinet negotiations. Then you behaved like a political party. The fact is, however, that in this Parliament there is not a single party to state support for our draft cabinet, not the doubles, not the ibni, not GERB, not the DPS, not you. [[IBBINES]] You also officially said you wouldn't support him. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, it's not nice to say that you've never been to Slavi Trifonov's office because you were with the fish years ago and I was there with Philip Stanev, I can't remember who else it was. It's just a figure of speech, I'm saying that you had a normal date, it's not not like you don't know what Slavi's office looks like from the inside. [[Noise, applause and screams:]] Thirdly, in a moment, when we go to a meeting, we will confirm that we will not support your mandate, not that you do not know it, but we will come as a sign of decency to inform you there at the meeting. So stick with the lines, because the truth is, again I will say this time about the Bulgarian citizens that you are currently trying to save the Bureau of Gesev, NSO to keep all kinds of people like Tsveta Karayancheva and Boyko Borisov at the moment continue to guard them, and you will save them, or you will try to save, not to close the Special Court and the prosecution, whatever you say from here, everything else is hypocritical blabbering. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u138	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Karimansky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Ninova mentioned three things in the sense, consistent and precise behaviour of her parliamentary group. What exactly was the principle? The principle that it has not properly read what has been entered into the budget, and the budget has been entered by the "There is such a people" - the first, requested change for agriculture - is then entered in the budget by Minister Asen Vassilev 400 million, the way in which they are to be spent and not additional funds. That's all that needs to be specified! Then what's consistent? What is consistent is that on Friday you voted in one way and today you are proposing exactly another. Is that your consistent behavior? And the last one exactly. Which one is it? That for the budget and for some procedure you are in a hurry, and the others are deliberately delaying them, knowing that a lot of deadlines have already expired. Is that your exact behavior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u141	Alas, all my expectations of reason, obviously, will not happen. Once again, you get into some personal manipulations and lies. However, I would like to touch on a few fundamental points. The first for our intention to change the judiciary and the ridiculous attempts to instill that we are trying to save anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where you were at that time and what you were doing, but in the previous parliament, the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) called the prosecutor Geshev to make a report and hearing in this Chamber and this happened at our request. And this report was essential on important issues and with an important discussion. Secondly, Mr. Yordanov, I appreciate your creative efforts, but there is no way you can instill political behind-the-scenes in the Bulgarian society because of my participation in the Slavi Trifonov Show 10 years ago when I was not at all in politics and when I was there to participate in a show. There's no way you're gonna twist it like that. I am talking about political behind-the-scenes, political decisions taken somewhere in the dark, about visits, talks and decisions about the fate of Bulgaria, not about participation in surrender. Members of Parliament, the final decision is yours. The interpretations you will make of this decision are your own business. However, we are now responsible to the state as a mandate carrier, once again I say: modest and responsible, we know our place. However, we also know the enormous responsibility at the moment that we bear, and it is one of the only things that we do not leave behind the state, disbanding parliament, in instability, and not guaranteeing people security, income and protection from the collapsing coal crisis. That's our only goal. In order to achieve it, we need to make an update of the budget to do it, we need to work a little bit, just like we did for a month and a half, so now we need to work a little harder and work it out. And that is why we propose these shortened deadlines and this responsibility to vote on a budget update and to move towards early elections. I say again: the decision is yours. Our call is for responsibility to the state and to the Bulgarian people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Before that, it was Mr. Zarkov. Would you like some? How long did you stay for BSP? [[Noise and lines.]] You don't have time. Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! I want to say a few things essentially about what's called an extension of deadlines. The deadline we have, and it was possible for the state budget, is on Friday, 7th is the deadline after Saturday, Sunday, and 6th, which allowed, the 6th is a national holiday, and it allowed the groups that work and meet with different NGOs, with different guils, right here and the Culture Commission today we have for the budget what needs to be done, to be able to look at what is possible and what is not possible. By tomorrow, the deadline for the two small budgets, as we call them, is over for the DEO and the NHIF. We have prepared, and yesterday in our parliamentary group we had a meeting with the Doctor's Union. However, there was an initiative, and I do not know why the BSP so removed it, in our parliamentary group at least we said that it was right, as you suggested, to have some conversation about what the important things are and how to get this consensus. And then, of course, each one will apply their policy in the budget and in the update. Of course, there will be various proposals, they must be looked at carefully, and the Budget Committee must, within the 7th period, meet, of course, on the 3rd for the DEO and for the NHIF, on the 7th to enter the Chamber. Everyone here you know that the heavy changes that are about pensions and the different types of mechanisms that we are proposing will have a serious debate, absolutely serious and certainly Tuesday is the day when we will have to have an update, what it should be, will there be allowances, at least what I have heard from colleagues in this House. In order to return to the seriousness of the conversation, the 7th would be ready and it is normal to start with these two budgets. On the 8th, to have a Committee on Budget and Finance on the Big Budget, to have looked at what is needed for agriculture. We have a consensus, yes, colleagues from "Democratic Bulgaria" have imported for some 110 million you have seen, but they must be divided into numbers of 70, on the one hand, and 40 for the Ministry of Agriculture because they cannot go to the Fund, for example I say it. In other words, these are conversations that need to be held by competence. And on Thursday, we can safely enter with the state budget in the hall and by Friday, at will and 24-hour work, as they say, on Great Thursday to watch it. I mean, the plan that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u144	Your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u145	...we have, and that's the reality. I understand the rush to make this before the 10th or before the 12th. So let's go back to the real themes, let's go back to the real measures that we need to make which design we remain from the previous management that works, who needs to be returned, who has worked, and who needs to be made new...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u146	Your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u147	That's the important part, and that's why Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u148	Your time, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u149	...I suggest we get to the point, stop measuring who's more, more, and who's cutting what down.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. For lines? I can't see. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u151	Mrs. Miteva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u152	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! More than 140 years ago, Petko Slaveykov said: "The good will to people's affairs should excuse us when we cause dissatisfaction to one another. " I think those words are true today, and I think that this debate has proved just that. I kept thinking that the adoption of domestic acts by the National Assembly had remained in some other parliaments, but it turns out that this Parliament will also have to adopt such acts. I think so. 1 et c. 3 of the Decision, these are procedural questions and could be made on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of its Rules of Procedure shall be shortened, which was extended on Friday on a proposal from the Member of the National Assembly and under art. 42, para. 3 to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I think it is unacceptable for the National Assembly to adopt a decision on how to work the permanent committees. The Rules of the National Assembly are adamant that parliamentary committees are being convened extraordinarily by the President of the Commission, by one third of the members of the Commission and by the President of the National Assembly. I think it is unacceptable, and I do not know what we will look like in the eyes of the people and the lawyers in this country indeed, the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision in which to publish a timetable for how it will work, that is, the National Assembly will only oblige itself to do what it should do. I therefore propose, in order not to be so ridiculous in the eyes of the people, at least point two to drop out of this draft decision and the parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance itself to decide and organise how to hold its meetings at a second vote on budgets and how to come up with reports on them. In this regard, I therefore propose a separate vote on the three points of the draft decision. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u153	For lines? There are no lines to the speech. Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u154	No, for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, for more than two hours you have been leading a useful debate. I hope that at least from this debate the Bulgarian citizens have understood which office has visited. Turns out Mrs. Manolova visited her offices and offices.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u157	I didn't. They were in mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u158	Or they in yours, and Mr. Borisov's, and Mr. Bozhkov's, probably Mr. Oresharski's, and Mr. Peevski's, because she suggested it, but this is another topic. I think everyone understands that there is already a blur of the concept of who the status quo is and who the change is. At least all those who were parties of change, of the protest, of the alternative, have proven definitely that you are neither change nor alternative. It is good that the Bulgarian citizens had the opportunity for more than two hours to see it. It became clear that our parliamentary group already voted against the extension of the three budget updates on Friday, because we are clearly aware that there is no time. No, there is no time for the parties to understand it was clear that you are like an eagle, cancer and pike, and there is no occasion behind which to stand a stable majority and with care for the Bulgarian citizens who have given you their trust. There's no time to talk, and there's no time to distribute your posts, your posts, your pies and so on. I don't know who's bothering you now. Until before, you were prevented by GERB, whom you united under the President's fist on a single mission to exterminate us. Well, yeah, but we're here. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] And yes, Mrs. Ninova, we have the confidence to be here in the first row, because consistently for more than 10 years there is no party to defeat us, especially BSP. In the previous parliamentary elections in July, a party appeared, which won a little over the votes, enough for two terms, but it seems to me that this was their last victory. We'll see. Elections are coming up. If this debate was useful for something, it was useful, and so it is clear what the facts are, and what the truth is, and it is good that someone has realized it. The topic of political hypocrisy and who works for the citizens (a line from the National Representative Tosko Yordanov, Mr. Yordanov, is a topic from the 45th National Assembly. I remember in the President's office, because in other chambers I did not go, you said: "Neither in fish, nor in participation, and so on, I stress, Mr. Stanev, you said that you did not believe any of the parties with which you were convinced that you could rule. It is a good thing that this has not changed, because for months and our thesis is the same that those who are here, supposedly declared an alternative, are no alternative at all, are not any change at all, these are the same people who were together both at Vanko 1s and at Oresharski, and in many, many other situations. So this debate has really been helpful. The Bulgarian citizens are probably aware that there is some behind-the-scenes, obviously all of you acknowledged it, and GERB is not involved in this behind-the-scenes. Someone from somewhere is calling you, visiting some offices, but GERB is not involved in this. And that's the most useful part of a two-hour debate. Otherwise, it is high time, honourable Members, as you have chosen a speaker of Parliament, with a large majority for reforms, as you have chosen committee chairmen and well cashed some posts, as you find unanimous on some topics, to finally understand the update of the budget against which GERB strongly opposed. But aren't you going to give Bulgaria a new chance? Well, come on, give it to me! Who's bothering you now? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For a cue, Mrs. Manolova, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Your group is running out of time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u160	A personal explanation is beyond time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u161	Personal explanation? It's also in... Mrs. Manolova, your name has not been mentioned. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u162	So how?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u163	For a line, Mr. Balabanov, come in. [[Heckling]] You don't have time. You weren't mentioned in the statement, Mrs. Manolova. You may recognize yourself in what Mrs. Atanasova says. [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Balabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u164	Mrs. Atanasova, the truth is actually here, we all know it is public because there are facts about the voice of the backstage, Mrs. Atanasova, is public and we all listened to it from some phone calls of your leader Mr. Borisov. Thanks to these phone calls, we filled the squares. So the face and voice of the backroom is your leader. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u165	Thank you, Mr. Balabanov. For another line? Is there another line? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Atanasova? [[Noise and lines. People's representative Maya Manolova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Manolova, I didn't give you the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u166	Okay, they mentioned me and five other people in the room. They'll also decide if they want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u167	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u168	How is that not true?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u169	Mrs. Manolova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u170	Please, Mrs. Miteva, did you hear them mention my name? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u171	No, your name wasn't mentioned. Where did you two recognize each other?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u172	My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u173	The committee was asked about Vanko 1s, Delyan Peevski's proposal or a fugitive was mentioned in Dubai, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u174	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u175	Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u176	Thank you, Madam President. That is correct, Madam President, you noted that I did not mention Mrs Manolova's name, but I will mention it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u177	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u178	I'm going to mention it now to give it a chance... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u179	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u180	...to Mrs. Manolova to take a personal explanation procedure in which to deny or confirm whether she visited Bozhkov's office, whether she proposed Peevski, whether she visited other offices of party leaders. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Manolova, now you have the opportunity for a personal explanation, Mrs. Atanasova did you a favor. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u182	Madam President, honourable Members! It is normal and I said it in the spirit of parliamentaryism that in connection with the mandates there are also talks with the people there are such a people and with the "Democratic Bulgaria" and with the management of the BSP for Bulgaria. These are conversations that have been made in offices. Only you and your leader have visits to a bedroom with drawers of bars and bills. [[Noise, lines and applause from IBGNI and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u183	Mrs. Manolova, I'm going to take your time and your opportunity to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] That's ugly. You're making unnecessary suggestions right now. If you please, you obviously know how to visit these premises, but you don't need to go to the National Assembly, I'm sorry. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other lines, please? Colleagues, let's keep quiet and finish this item on the agenda because we have become a circus unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u184	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u185	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u186	The way I'm doing it, I want a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u187	Your time is over, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u188	Just because I'm not a partner of a Kosovo drug lord doesn't mean I have no right to speak out of the stands. [[Noise, lines and applause from IBGNI and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u189	Mrs. Manolova, the way your group's running time is over. Any suggestion you can make anywhere you want, but you don't have to do it here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u190	At the city council in Vidin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u191	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u193	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest Mr. Vigenin take the lead in the meeting to calm the passions. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u194	Thank you. Let's move on. Are there any other lines? [[Noise and lines.]] Let's put it to the vote, of course. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please remain silent in the hall at 11.15 pm, we have just decided to continue looking at the point so that we can vote on it. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other comments on the subject? [[From the parliamentary group of IBGNI express a wish to speak.]] I'm sorry, but you don't have time for a speech. Your group doesn't have time for a procedure because it's part of the group's time. You don't have time for a procedure because it's part of the group's time. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's vote. We're in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u195	For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u196	Yes, you have time for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u197	Dear colleagues, the person who is behind my back is unclear as to why, at the moment, as chair of the National Assembly violates the ugly procedure. We have to vote on Mr. Vigenin's exchange proposal, and she's obviously being stupid right now, so if we could vote. [[Applause from IHN and IBGTN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u199	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Yordanov, let's restore reason to the court! Who is holding the meeting is determined by the President of the National Assembly, who is sitting next to you, he has authorized who is holding the meeting, the plenary does not determine who is holding the meeting. [[noise and lines]] [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] So if you want to replace the host, ask the chairman to order who will lead the meeting. At the moment, the meeting is being held by a Vice-President who has been ordered to vote on the draft decision, for which I thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I suggest we proceed to a vote on the draft decision. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova's proposal to drop the item. 2. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Eva Miteva. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's vote on them point by point. Since there are two proposals, there is a first proposal to drop the item. 2 and then a motion to vote on a item on the agenda. [[Replys from MP Iva Miteva.]] Go ahead, Mr. Vigenin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u201	Now, there was no need for this, but there was a proposal made to vote on a point by point. I'm starting with it. I would first like to vote on whether to vote on it point by point so that everything is clear and clear and there are no doubts. So I put to the vote Cornelia Ninova and BSP's proposal to vote not in full, but point by point. They voted 225 MPs: 155, against 37, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposed draft decision point by point. I think you have it in front of you. Should I read the dots? [[Heckling]] No. I'm voting on it. 1 which is for a reduction of the deadline until 3 September. Vote 163 MPs: 56 against 105, abstention 2. [[Applause.]] The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on this. 2, which is somewhat meaningless perhaps, but we have to do the whole procedure anyway. Vote 166 MPs: 31, against 108 abstention 27. The proposal has not been adopted.. The Commission will clearly not meet on Saturday. And et cetera. 3 For the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. They voted 165 MPs: for 31, against 109, abstention 25. Point 3 has not been accepted. [[Heckling]] No, the whole decision does not need, as all three points have been rejected. Is there a negative vote on the last point? [[Heckling]] Well, it's a draft decision, it's not a procedure, so I can't see. In this situation, we have exhausted this item on the agenda and I am giving half an hour's rest. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u202	Colleagues, we continue with: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Invokers? Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs; Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs; Andrey Mihaylov and a group of MPs. I ask the President of the Commission to present the reports on the three bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u203	Honourable President, honourable Members, who are in this Chamber! I will briefly present the three bills, as adopted in the first vote in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I will start with Draft No. 46-154-01-33, submitted by Andrey Mihailov and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of "There is such a people." The bill provides for a change in the control of the Bureau of Defense. Opinions were submitted by the interested parties both personally and in writing. On the part of the Ministry of Justice it was pointed out that the Bill contributes to the implementation of effective and effective control, as well as to the consolidation of separation of authorities. In the reasons of this bill, it was noted that it is an expression of the separation of authorities, the intolerance of purely law enforcement activities, such as the Bureau of Protection, to be within the scope and scope of the judiciary, where the prosecution is located. In addition, there were other opinions which, for the most part, support the proposed bill. A negative opinion was expressed by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u204	Mr. Mihaylov, you should read the Commission's reports on the three drafts and then in the debate we can debate and discuss.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u205	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened to Criminal Procedure At its meeting on 31 August 2021, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed this draft. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the prosecution, representatives of the lawyer's office. On behalf of importers, the bill was presented by the President of the Commission. The proposed bill provides for the activities of the Bureau of Defense to be transferred to the Ministry of Justice in the form of a separate specialized department. It was pointed out that the amendment of the Law in 2014, the functions of management and control are concentrated with the Attorney General in violation of the principle of separation of powers, with legislative amendments since 2018, its powers are expanded without justification and too much with competences not of the judiciary. The constitutional powers of the Prosecutor's Office are clearly defined, namely to lead the investigation, to supervise its lawful conduct, as well as to attract criminal liability to persons who have committed crimes. It was noted that the protection of endangered persons in criminal proceedings is not among the constitutionally defined functions of the prosecution, but are of the exclusive competence of the Council of Ministers. The draft law proposes that special protection be carried out by the Minister of Justice and that control over the activities of the Bureau of Protection be carried out by the Council of Protection and that the means of carrying out the Bureau's activities will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The bill also contains transitional and final provisions which fully reflect the amendments provided for in the regulations. I have already indicated that opinions have been received by the Ministry of Justice, which states that the proposed bill will contribute to the introduction of an effective and consistent constitutional model by achieving effective protection of prosecutors, judges and investigators within the framework of a single administrative body. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria disagrees with the proposed draft law, stating that the control of the implementation of the special protection is currently being carried out by the Board for Protection of Threatened Persons, formed by higher authorities. It is pointed out that the National Assembly is listening and adopting an Annual Report of the Prosecutor General, which also contains summary data on the activities of the Bureau of Protection. The MPs Mr. Hamid, Mr. Mihailov, Mrs. Alexandrova, Mrs. Kanazireva and Mrs. Baychev took part in the discussion. Opinions were submitted by the various parliamentary groups. GERB-SDS parliamentary group said they would not support the bill, as effective protection work will be violated at the Bureau of Defense. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Commission said they would not support the bill and added that in order to preserve the efficiency of the body, it is sufficient to limit the powers of the Prosecutor General to those defined in the Constitution. From the parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria....Democratic Bulgaria....and..Stand up БГ! We're coming!................................................................................................ Following a vote, the bill was adopted by the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. This was with regard to the first draft bill submitted, as per the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u206	Please, on the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u207	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure, submitted by the National Representative Hristo Ivanov and a group of Members of Parliament, No 46-154-01-26 The draft was reviewed at the meeting of 31 August 2021 in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The bill was presented by the National Representative Atanas Slavov, who pointed out that it offers the organizational passage of the Bureau of Protection from the Prosecutor General to a specialized department in the General Directorate of Security and Justice. The aim is to remove duplicate functions with the Security Directorate General at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior, limit the possibility of abuse and increase public accountability and control. In his speech in the Commission, the people's representative Slavov pointed out that it is envisaged that the control of the Bureau's activities should be carried out by the Minister of Justice, thereby subjecting the body to parliamentary control. Mr. Slavov added that the institutional transfer of the Bureau of Protection to the Ministry of Justice positioned the executive body and that the Constitution defines the functions of public order security and ensuring the security of all legal entities to be carried out precisely by the Council of Ministers. It has been stated that the draft law provides for transitional and final provisions governing the status of staff at the Bureau and ensuring the effective performance of its functions. He added that a bill of such content has been submitted to the previous National Assembly, and on this draft law a public discussion has been held and enough time has passed for interested parties to get acquainted with it. On the same bill, an opinion was received from the Ministry of Justice, which expresses principled support. A representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that within the framework of the European recommendations it is indicated that the protection authorities should be in institutional units which do not have investigative and indictment functions. The Ministry of Justice added that the Bureau's activities should not be part of the Security Directorate General at the Ministry of Justice. The prosecution does not share the proposed amendments to the Law. It is stated that the functions of the Bureau of Protection are specific and strictly limited without duplicate the powers of executive bodies. It has been noted that the Protection Council has a very specific staff and powers to exercise the necessary control over the activities of the Protection Bureau. The MPs Mr. Mihailov, Mr. Hamid, Mrs. Alexandrova, Mrs. Kanazireva and Mrs. Baychev took part in the discussion. GERB-SDS parliamentary group said they would not support the Bill, as it would violate the effectiveness of the work of the Bureau of Protection. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they said they would not support the bill and expressed an opinion that in order to preserve the efficiency of the body it is sufficient to limit the powers of the Prosecutor General to those defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. From the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria. We're coming!............................................................................................. In conclusion, as a result of the discussion, the Commission adopted the proposed bill. With regard to the third bill submitted by the National Representative Nikolay Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure The representatives also attended the meeting, as I pointed out, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Meglena Guncheva, who pointed out that it proposed legislative changes aimed at the transition of the Chief Prosecutor's Office on Protection to the Ministry of Justice. Importers shall motivate the legislative initiative with the need to change the current legal framework under which the Prosecutor General independently directs and controls the activities of the Bureau of Protection. People's representative Guncheva noted that the sole management and control of the Bureau's activities carried out by the Prosecutor General is contrary to the principle of separation of authorities, as the activities of protection and protection of public order under the Constitution are carried out by the executive and not by the judiciary to which the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is. The National Representative stated that the institutional transfer of the Bureau to the Ministry of Justice positioned the authority in the executive power, where it was under the original amendment in the adoption of the Law in 2004 and added that at the moment the Bureau's functions towards the Prosecutor General fully duplicate the competences of the Ministry of Interior and the Security Directorate General of the Ministry of Justice. The draft adopted an opinion by the Ministry of Justice, which expresses the principled support for the legislative initiative, but points out the need to comply with the fact that the Minister cannot simultaneously direct and exercise legal control over the activities of the Bureau of Protection. The representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out that within the framework of European recommendations it is indicated that the protection authorities should be in institutional units which do not have investigative and indictment functions. The Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria expressed a negative opinion on the bill, assuming that it is unfounded and there are no compelling arguments for its adoption. It is noted that the legislative changes which led to the current structure of the Bureau of Protection have been carried out following an analysis and evaluation of its activities by 2014 and are dictated by the need to achieve more efficiency in its work. People's representatives Andrey Mihailov, Hamid Hamid, Anna Alexandrova, Dani Kanazireva and Todor Baychev took part in the discussion. Like the other bills from GERB-SDS parliamentary group, they said they would not support the Bill, as it would disrupt the effectiveness of the work of the Bureau of Protection. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they said they would not support the bill and gave an opinion that in order to preserve the efficiency of the body, it is sufficient to limit the powers of the Prosecutor General. From the parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria and "Democratic Bulgaria" stated that they supported the bill in principle, adding that civil control would thus be carried out in accordance with the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the separation of authorities. In conclusion, the President of the Commission stated that an essential motive for supporting the bill is the functions inherent in the executive power which the Bureau exercises. And on this bill, a vote was taken on the basis of art. 77 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it was supported at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. These were the Commission's reports on the three bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u208	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. I give the floor to Mr. Hadjigenov as an importer of the first submitted bill. You have 10 minutes to comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam President, I ask you to forgive my freedom in advance, but if by any chance the aim of the near-two-hour morning debate was not to get here, you were close. If I'm mistaken by any chance, please excuse me for this lyrical deviation. I will be relatively brief and will not take full advantage of my time, since the idea of this bill is to return the existing situation to where it belongs, specifically in terms of efficiency, as at the moment the Bureau is totally ineffective. Perhaps not many of you have read the Prosecution Report, there is a section in it concerning the Bureau's activities. In addition, the Attorney General was heard in the committees and there was also the work of the Bureau. It's nice to see that since the Bureau is under the authority of the Attorney General, something we all know is protecting only the Attorney General and two other unnamed magistrates. Two magistrates outside the Attorney General. Two! Outside of them in the last two years, which is outside the Bureau's subject of activity, protect 20 witnesses, from them eight in the country, which means 12 people just live abroad. Because no one has the illusion that a gang of armed Taliban, excuse me, Bureau officials abroad protect witnesses. No, there's no such thing. In its opinions, it is nice to note that the prosecution is lying once again, saying that the Bureau does not duplicate functions of other bodies. Oh, yeah? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. In the current text, the people to the judicial authority. This, I suppose, is familiar to you, is in the Ministry of Interior Act and concerns the activities of the Ministry of Interior, not the activities of the Bureau. "Secures and provides for the conduct of investigations'. 3, para. 3 of art. 14 in the current existing text. Back in the Homeland Security Act. Welcome to my world! The Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria is lying at every opportunity, notice, for the sole purpose of preserving the power of the dictator, because we have no illusion, Ivan Geshev as the Prosecutor General is still trying to gain powers that are not followed. And this has nothing to do with the prosecution's work, it has nothing to do with the protection of witnesses, because, agree, 8 million a year, where we keep two magistrates and a half, if we include the Attorney General inside, and 8 people in the country plus the expenses of 12 people outside the country, excuse me, it's too much. This is taxpayers' money, and in fact a huge part of this money goes to the Attorney General for fun and its creation of a halo of value. In fact, under the leadership of the Attorney General, the Bureau has become a paramilitary organization that is not used for its purpose and not for the purposes of justice, obviously does not protect witnesses. This happened effectively enough before the Bureau was transferred to the Attorney General. The same people, we all saw last year how they broke into the Presidency, and to call it now the Attorney General, it was a communication error, notice, not an invasion, the prosecution's explanation afterwards. All this was done quite deliberately, just as it was done intentionally, and entering a ministry before that, there was no communication error. Even when it comes to committing a crime, such a practice, albeit episodic over the years, is available from persons holding senior government positions. Sending an ordinary district inspector with a subpoena in his hand is just as effective as sending a band of bearded Taliban armed to his teeth in the Presidency, but he doesn't look so good in front of the cameras and doesn't give the Attorney General a chance to claim that there was a communication error. I suppose that my fellow Members will take a detailed look at the topic of this kind, which is contrary to the Constitution, I have no doubt that the Constitutional Court will rule on the subject. Such are the recommendations of all European authorities, and we must return the Bureau where it belongs to the Minister of Justice, in a separate department or directorate, so that it can work effectively and essentially, and not keep the Attorney General unclear from whom. Unfortunately, the materials are secret, but the last known signal was reported, which concerns Ivan Geshev, Boyko Borisov and Tsatsarov, and I hesitate whether to define it as pathetic or funny. In a normal situation, we'd probably laugh with a voice. But because the situation isn't normal, maybe it's pathetic. And yes, the Prosecutor General is not threatened by anything, but if threatened, the essence of each of the three projects is that he is owed protection, of course, not only as Prosecutor General, but as an ordinary Bulgarian citizen. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u210	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. On behalf of the importers of the second bill? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u211	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In short, I will present to you the main highlights of our bill. I thank the President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for a good presentation. Our bill focuses on bringing the Bureau of Defense back where its natural institutional place is, where it was until 2014, when the majority, which supported the Oresharski government, gave it to Mr. Tsatsarov and there, was provided with new repressive functions. The idea of this entire legislative initiative is to restore the original meaning and purpose of the Security Bureau to protect persons in danger of criminal proceedings, to remove all duplicate functions exercised by other bodies such as the Security Directorate General at the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. However, the big question that puts this legislative initiative is the following: "Is it possible in Bulgaria to allow, according to the principles of the Constitution of the rule of law and the separation of powers, to have an institution in the face of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office, which is uncontrollable, unaccounted for, which only receives new powers without being accountable to the public for these powers? We have seen in the past years, we have seen the last days when the Prosecutor General has delighted, notice, is not obliged, he has delighted to come to Parliament to do everything possible not to give the information that Parliament wanted from him. It was with his conduct that the Prosecutor General proved the following: it is necessary that this Bureau of Protection, which is a form of concentrated repressive power, be returned to the executive power in order to be subject to parliamentary control, accountability, publicity. It is only through parliament that some form of accountability and control over the activities of the repressive authorities may be carried out. It is clear that if he remains in the Attorney General's Office as much material gain as there are there, no matter how high the salaries of the employees are, he will not perform his main public function, but it is to ensure that people who support justice, witnesses, including some of them. People who have participated in some criminal activity, but who have witnessed justice, will receive protection. You can't be an adequate witness to justice if the prosecutor, who can at any time turn you into a defendant, protects you into quotes. There's no way to protect you, you'll be running the D.A.'s orders, as we can see happens very often with people who witness key cases. Therefore, honourable Members, the Bureau must be returned to the executive power in order to have all of us as representatives of power, control, demand accountability, point out vices when they are there and to perform their primary function. As the National Assembly in a constitutional state has control over the budget, and only the Assembly has control over the budget and votes it, so the Assembly in every rule of law must have control over the organised coercion carried out by the authorities. There can be no authority, such as the prosecution and as the Prosecutor General, which is not subject to public accountability and control, and the adoption of the bill proposed, as the other two bills, will be a test of whether Bulgaria wants to be the rule of law, constitutional, modern European state or not. I sincerely hope that, along with the adoption of the budget update, we will have time to adopt both the Law on the Bureau of Protection and the Law on the Elimination of Specialized Justice, the Specialized Court and the Prosecutor's Office. This will be the test of whether we can move forward as a state of law and constitutionality, or we will fall into some other alternative order, which is nothing else, but authoritarianism in some new form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u212	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. On behalf of the importers on the third bill? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u213	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, in relation to the presentation of the bill tabled by us, I will only note a few things. The Bureau of Defense shall carry out full law enforcement activities. That has been said so far. What, though, was not spoken? The Bureau of Defense also has the functions of some of the elements of a special service. Most of you know the Law, notice the employees of the Bureau of Defense can use documents as cover, that is, explicitly created documents. This practice is also permissible for protected persons. If this is normal for the protected persons, then for the Bureau's employees this is an exotic hypothesis. Let's even assume that it is necessary for the work, but this shows that the Bureau of Defense has an instrument characteristic of the security services in Bulgaria. Since that's the case, does he belong in the judiciary? Does judicial authority have to be the power to carry these powers, which can use such an instrument, and not only that..................... the police powers? The police powers of the Bureau of Defense are given to him further, not with his birth, but further. That is, the Bureau of Defense is gradually developing as an excess of the law enforcement activity, that is, it receives more, and more, and more powers by each passing year. The question arises, is this necessary for the judiciary, is this characteristic of the judiciary? The security activity is part of the executive power. Support for this purely legal find in art. 105, para. 1 and 2 of the Constitution The functions of the prosecution to raise and maintain the prosecution, to lead the investigation, but these functions are very far from the law enforcement activities of the Bureau. All this allows us to motivate the conclusion that the Bureau's place is not within the scope of the judiciary. His natural place is in the Justice Department, so it wasn't a coincidence that the Bureau left from there. One more thing, outside the legal arguments, colleagues, look around when you see the photos of the Bureau employees. Look at their equipment, look at their behavior, look at their weapons. Just look around you! You will see that they are superior to the employees in the Bulgarian security and public order services. The question again: is he in the judiciary? In terms of control. Control at present is very limited. The amendments provided for in the Bill will lead to the fact that control will be much greater. What I'm asking you to look into is that none of the bill provides for the closure or damage of the Bureau. The Bureau's activities are not meaningless. On the contrary, the Bureau's activities are very important. It is a very important tool in the criminal proceedings for the protection of witnesses, as well as for the protection of magistrates, but it belongs in the executive power because the Bureau has the tools to affect the freedom, life and health of Bulgarian citizens, which is very far from the purpose of the judiciary and outside the legal arguments. A respected colleague of mine here in parliament was talking about the regals of power, about the symbols of power. It makes no sense for the judiciary to use such symbols, such regals of security. No, that's not necessary. It is necessary for the Bureau to do its job, but outside the judiciary. And I would like to conclude by saying that the bills have similar philosophy, but the Bill of the Parliamentary Group of These are very important differences which I call on, according to your vote, of course, in this House to be then examined between the two votes in the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u214	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u215	Madam President, honourable Members! We of "There is such a people" we will support at the moment at first reading all three proposals. They are extremely similar, with small differences, significant differences, but I hope that in the Legal Committee between the two readings they will be united in a joint proposal, because indeed these are three extremely similar proposals. It is best to have one thing in common that passes through the Legal Commission in order to restore justice to a small extent in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u216	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Baychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u217	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party state categorically and quite clearly that we support all three submitted laws. Not 1/3, not 7/8, colleagues, 100% all three. I say this because it has often been speculated, especially at the front point, that deliberate debate is being made to delay this, but we must state quite clearly that all three bills follow the same philosophy, and which is more important, colleagues, follow the same goal, namely the return of the Witness Protection Bureau to the Ministry of Justice. Yes, colleagues, there is a small difference, as the bills differ from a specialized department or from the General Directorate of Security, but I believe that in the debate between first and second reading this will be cleared and we will achieve unanimous thinking. I am impressed in this debate and at all in the debate in society that the Witness Protection Bureau did not become known for protecting some key witnesses, with their testimony, which reveals organized criminal groups, I would even say, unfortunately, six people have also given up protection. Rather, it has become known that this bureau acts as one of Mr. Geshev's stormtroopers, who by unknown what criteria in the relevant proceedings are being sent to carry out the relevant procedural actions, whether it will be an arrest, whether it will be a search and seizure, but, colleagues, it is not clear why, in certain pre-trial proceedings, it is precisely the Bureau of Protection that has been sent? I would even say, because we have two colleagues here who were interior ministers, an interior minister would be offended and offended why he wasn't informed, why the authorities of the investigation were skipped, why wasn't the Ministry of Interior informed?! These are valid questions that are raised in society and are not answered at all. The Bureau of Defense should serve as physical security to provide psychological assistance, not, as I said, as a team of stormtroopers. Another issue that also arises is: is the Bureau not circumventing the division of authorities, colleagues? I think that the balance of the authorities is being violated. The executive body has been replaced by another body, which, however, is not subject in any way to parliamentary control. As is known, in the criminal process there is an equalisation of the parties, which is a sign of justice, and the prosecution in turn is a party to the criminal process. If we raise the question of justice again, where is justice here when in art. 16a the Attorney General decides himself whether to initiate protection against someone and against whom? Let him determine himself and one-on-one. Thus, the prosecution could not simply influence a witness, but could force him to speak in a certain direction. This particular direction will be on the side of the prosecution, on the side of the prosecution, but let us not forget that the prosecution, apart from gathering evidence that supports its thesis, must collect evidence at all and in the direction of exculpatory. So, colleagues, this is also a flaw that needs to be removed. It is clear to everyone that the powers of the Prosecutor General regarding the Bureau of Protection are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The original idea of a security guard has been cancelled, and police functions have been assigned to it, and we, colleagues, need to correct this mistake. We need to restore the legal order, make sure that there is effective control, end the duplicate functions with those of the Ministry of Interior and have clarity about who and what the Bureau uses to protect witnesses, who decides and when to use it. There is an unconstitutionality to be put an end to, and as I stated at the outset, we support all three bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u218	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will not take up too much of your time because I see that there is a broad consensus in this House on these bills, one of which is tabled by "Democratic Bulgaria." They are similar to each other, and there is reason for that. I would just like to point out that, long before today or the present time, this current law had to be sent to the Constitutional Court, and so far this issue would have been resolved by it, because the texts proposed in these bills are absolutely unconstitutional. I'll take the liberty of not wasting your time, reading a few texts from the Constitution: Article 105, para. 2 of the Constitution says: "The Council of Ministers provides public order and national security and implements the general management of the state administration and of the armed forces." Here is the text which contradicts the current texts with these three laws, because, we repeat ourselves, but there is a division of authorities and in principle the repressive power is the executive power and it must be subject to parliamentary control, as described in our Constitution. There is no parliamentary control over the prosecution. Apart from that, I don't want to read to you. 127 of the Constitution, where the powers of the prosecution are designated. There's no authority on security, no defense, rudely speaking. We must support these bills and be able between first and second readings to be united, cleared texts and to remove this defect by the end of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u220	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? If there are no other speeches, we shall proceed to the vote in that case. We will vote on the three bills separately in the order of their submission. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Persons Threatened in Criminal Procedure. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 133, against 41, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] We are voting on the bill of Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 191 MPs: 135, against 42, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the latest proposal on this bill by Andrej Mihailov and a group of MPs. They voted 193 MPs: 133, against 46, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal for a three-day period between the first and second votes. It's enough to build a joint project. [[Noise and lines.]] He's almost done. Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u222	There are rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u223	Are there any counterproposals? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am making a reverse proposal to meet the seven-day deadline, as the joint report with the three draft laws has not yet been adopted. Let us follow the Rules step by step and not rush into fast legislation, because we have seen what it leads to with the Election Code adopted by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u225	I put to the vote the first procedural proposal made by the MP Nikolay Hadzhigenov to shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. [[Noise and lines. The Presidents shall be replaced.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u226	I apologize, colleagues, but the Prime Minister is in my office and I had to leave. Colleagues, as I understand it, you voted on the three bills, didn't you? A general bill must be drawn up and before the general bill is drawn up and declared in plenary, no time limit can be shortened under the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So please, this proposal to shorten the deadline can only be made after I announce the General Law in plenary. Cancel the vote. [[Noise.]] The vote has been revoked. Moving on to the next point: HEARING OF THE MINISTRY MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA STEPHAN, THE OFFICED MINISTER OF THE MINISTER OF PUBLIC AND SECURITY AND OFFICED MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS OF BOOK RUSHKOV, THE OFFICED MINISTER OF THE RESPONDED GEORGINE PANAYOTOV, THE INTERNAL WORKS MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS OF THE GENEFIT AND THE PLANS OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE NEW MIGREGANT WAVE, AND THE NEGEDIMATES OF THE WORKS OF THE WORKS OF THE WORKS OF THE RESPONSE. I request the importer to present the questions subject to the hearing. Please invite the Prime Minister and the ministers who are in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u227	Point four, why did you skip it for the NSA?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u228	The fourth point is not. We had a vote this morning, and it happened... That's point three, guys. This morning we voted for inclusion as point three of the hearing on migration pressure, so it is point three for today and we continue with it. Please invite Minister Boyko Rashkov. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Looking at the Ministry of Interior alone, the subject of border guards is not important to them, as Minister Rashkov is not here yet. On the other hand, I respect and would like to thank all the MPs who supported this morning's agenda, as it is important to see, especially when the time limits are running for proposals between first and second readings in the State Budget Act. What are the government's exact estimates, what are the government's planned actions to react to the future and possible migratory wave, which, unfortunately, is already banging on our door. Why did we want it today? For the simple reason that the informal meeting of the interior ministers has already ended, where this was a topic. Unfortunately, she was also Deputy Minister of the Interior. Maybe we should have invited him, as I see Deputy Prime Minister Rashkov has no interest in the topic for the second time. Two other informal meetings in the European Union are coming up this week. The foreign ministers from 2nd to 3rd and from 1st to 2nd of defence ministers, for which I thank both ministers that they are here and that they will be able to say the position of Bulgaria that they are going to these meetings with. As for us, I suppose, it is important for all MPs to fight for European support for security at the external border of the European Union, as is right, and so, as always, the Bulgarian state has enjoyed such European support in these crises. It is therefore nice to hear from the Prime Minister what position the ministers are going to, and what has actually agreed at the meeting between the interior ministers of the Member States of the European Union? Will there be such financial support? Will there be logistical support, including through the missions of the "Frontex"? What and since when can we expect such support from our partners in the European Union so that we can secure Europe's external border? Separately, for one month there has been talk about the participation of elements of the Bulgarian Army for Conservation and Assistance of the Mission for Protection of the Bulgarian Border from Border Police. It's important here to hear what kind of readings, how many people... However, let us not forget one more thing under the Defence Act and the Armed Forces, the support mission by the Bulgarian Army is commissioned by the Minister of Defence, but there should also be the level of force that the Bulgarian soldiers can use. It is also important, I don't even know if this should not be in a closed session, you would say, if there is a need for such a procedure, to see what level of security the Bulgarian servicemen will have by supporting the border? Also, when is such an operation expected to begin, because at least for us, as an adoption of budget funds, it is important whether it will start September, October, November or December? It's nice to fund all four months. As far as I have heard a statement from you, Mr. Yanev, from this weekend you still do not think it necessary to include the armed forces in security at the border. In other words, such an operation would have been postponed over time for perhaps a subsequent month. So it is really important, at least, for the MPs who are in the Chamber, for all the parliamentary groups, because this point has received support from all the parliamentary groups, to understand exactly what is being planned, with which personnel, with which technique and where exactly will the efforts be concentrated? How focused will the efforts of the border itself be, how deeply, logically, how will they be covered? We understand that no new centres will be opened at the State Agency for Refugees. It is important to see the employment rate in the centres of the Directorate of Migration. I say again, unfortunately, the Ministry of Interior is gone, but this is an important topic to see what the trends are, because on the basis of these trends we can do a precise analysis of how the situation will develop in the future, so I hope we will approach this debate responsibly, not to get so into politics, because the issue is extremely important for all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u230	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Minister Rashkov is on his way to the National Assembly. Mr. Yanev, however, I propose to give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, as they have a flight to inform us and not to be late, I propose to give them the floor first and then move on to the Prime Minister and Boyko Rashkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u231	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The subject of Afghanistan has been prevailing in all international contacts in recent weeks. You can also monitor this topic on TV and on other media. Accordingly, we can say that what has been done in recent weeks by both the executive and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been a priority for bringing the Bulgarian citizens from Afghanistan and also for bringing these Afghan citizens who have contributed to the Bulgarian Embassy to our mission ISAF, which has been in recent years on the territory of Afghanistan. Also on the principle of solidarity to these officials.. Afghans who worked with the relevant European services, the European Commission and other international organisations. So far, I must tell you that we have successfully evacuated 27 Bulgarian citizens from the territory of Afghanistan, we have Afghan citizens who have been evacuated - 34 people, we have an additional 22 citizens who are on Pakistan's territory and who are about to evacuate to Bulgaria. Separately we expect 14 Afghan citizens to come along the European Union from the so-called logistics hub in Spain. Their transportation from Spain to Bulgaria is in the process of coordination with the relevant institutions and, accordingly, we expect information when exactly these citizens will arrive. What should we say now about the situation in Afghanistan? Firstly, it is extremely worrying, on the one hand, and the main task of the international community is to ensure peace and security on the territory of Afghanistan. It is no coincidence that today there is also the beginning of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Union in the format of Gymnih, which will continue until Friday. There was a meeting or Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, which was a video conference two weeks ago. Defence ministers are going to meet today and tomorrow on this subject as well. Yesterday was the meeting of the interior ministers. I must tell you that at all these councils and meetings the Bulgarian position is coherent, coordinated and is in defence of the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. If we have to speak in the specifics of the first, we also support the efforts of the European Commission to form a government of agreement or an inclusive government, as they call it, a transitional government, which will lead to the final solution to the situation at the moment, to have a united position in terms of international humanitarian law. Above all, this concerns not only human rights, but, above all, the rights of women, girls and children, not to allow the re-entry of Afghanistan into the territory, platform and asylum of terrorist organisations. Last but not least, what you have also affected, Mr. Gajev, is that above all, the external borders of the European Union and Bulgaria must be ensured, as one of these external borders also puts on all these forums priority and this issue. It should be known that Bulgaria does not have its own representative in Afghanistan. It was closed in 2017. We have the so-called home based ambassador, that is, an ambassador who has a permanent headquarters in Bulgaria. We are in constant contact with our colleagues who are still on the line in Kabul. It should be said that the European Commission withdrew its representation, but the European Commission's aim is to strengthen its diplomatic mission in Afghanistan's neighbouring countries. During the last week, the European Commission's representative, particularly in Afghanistan, has also been sent for operational talks. It is expected that at today's, tomorrow's and the day after, the issues and his report will be presented to the foreign ministers. Individual shuttles were taken by foreign ministers of individual countries. In the last three days, there have been such shuttles by the German Foreign Minister, there have been appropriate calls from the Danish Prime Minister for possible things to be discussed at the meeting. And what I want to confess to you is that the meeting is different in format. There are the so-called Chatham House rules, that is, the things that are discussed in this format and do not have public knowledge. We are in contact with the Committee on Foreign Policy on all these issues, and when we have enough information, I am ready to introduce the Committee on Foreign Policy in a closed session and the results of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Does the Secretary of Defense want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gadzhev, as I have had the opportunity to inform you several times, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces are prepared to deploy up to 1051 soldiers on the Bulgarian-Turkish border in an estimate of three rotations for two weeks each of the first class 350 servicemen and so on. The tasks I have also had the opportunity to explain, but I will quickly pass through them: participation in strengthening the surveillance and security of the Bulgarian-Turkish border; joint participation with the forces and funds of the Department of Zhendarmeriya to counter the illegal crossing of migrants on the territory of the country; construction of engineering deterrent facilities; observations from the air; enhancement of border surveillance in general; participation in search, rescue and evacuation operations; building tents; provision of temporary kitchens and generally the provision of logistical support of the Ministry of Interior. What I would like to inform, however, by making the agreement that we have already sent a letter to Mr. Atanas Zafirov, Chairman of the Defence Committee, is about the funds the Ministry of Defence needs to implement the implementation of these plans, which I have just mentioned. This is about the following: the necessary funds for participation of personnel by the end of the year amount to 8 million. 640 thousand. lv. The estimated funds for fuel lubricants (GSM) amounted to 606 thousand. BGN, in the "Unforeseen costs" section, we have set 360 thousand. BGN, and all the funds needed for the participation of 600 soldiers on average per month and the necessary equipment to increase the security of the state border with a duration of up to the end of the year, amounted to 9 million. 606 thousand. lv. The Department of Defense doesn't have that kind of money. Additional funds for capital-reimbursement repairs have been requested for the repair of one helicopter, Couger, amounting to 12 million. lv. and to restore the suitability for the use of a manageable flight system, an unmanned aerodrome of 5 million. lv. These are the funds that we have stated in an official letter to the President of the Defence Committee. As it comes down to the Rules for the Use of Force, such rules have been developed. I can't report them in open court. In connection with my participation, which begins today at an informal meeting of the defence ministers of the Member States of the European Union, the operational commitments of the European Union, which include Afghanistan, include the Western Balkans, commitments in Mali, Sahel and also Libya, will be discussed. In addition, work on the European Union's Strategic Compass will be discussed. You know, this is a strategic document which is, in fact, the European Union's vision of security design and also an increase in the Union's strategic autonomy. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u234	Thank you, Mr. Panayotov. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I suggest that we release the two ministers because they have a journey ahead of them, and we continue with the answers to specific questions. Dear Mr. Gajev, I hope that within a few days "as I have to speak on the subject for the second time, not to repeat my words from last Friday, but still to say that the organization that we have done so far in the Council of Ministers is the establishment of groups for immediate and rapid analysis on a daily basis of the situation. With the organization established by the Directorate-General for Border Police, regarding the security at the border at the moment, as well as the forthcoming decisions jointly with the Ministry of Interior, including what I announced from the National Assembly's stands that we are to convene the Security Council next week to the Council of Ministers, as one of the topics will be this. We believe that at the moment we are doing what is necessary for the preparation of the country's "Preparation of the national elements of the system of protection of national security on the security of the state border in, so to speak, to a large extent the expected increase in migrant pressure. Indeed, as the Minister of Defence said, so I assume Deputy Prime Minister Rashkov, shortly after, when it comes to the concrete in terms of measures, regarding the organisation, regarding coordination of the forces, funds and personnel of the Border Police, with the forces and funds of the armed forces, we are entering a sensitive area. I agree with the recommendations of the Minister of Defence, if necessary and the desire of the Members of the National Assembly to be acquainted with this type of measures in closed session. But, yes, everything is taken into account, including discussing the most appropriate measures of behavior on the ground. At this stage, I do not think it is necessary to discuss, but if necessary, this can be done in closed session. From now on, as well as the activities of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence in the event of the need to activate this mechanism need additional funding, such estimates have been made and have been submitted to the relevant Committees on Defence and, respectively, the Internal Order and Security Commission. I suppose that in the activities of the National Assembly and as a result of the recommendations of these committees the relevant decisions will be taken. At present, according to the situation, the involvement of the armed forces in border guards is not necessary. Such a decision has not been made and will be made when the situation demands it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u236	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u237	Madam President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We often talk about the subject of migrant pressure and for good reason. As you can see, we are here weekly to inform you of the situation on these issues, these processes, their development and what action the competent state authorities are taking. On the first question: is there, or is there no increase in migrant pressure on our country's borders? It is known that there are about 3 million 400,000 Syrians in the Republic of Turkey and, as I stressed last week, as a result of the political processes in Afghanistan, many Afghan citizens are heading towards Turkey, passing through Iran and, of course, the goal is to reach the European countries, including through the Republic of Bulgaria. So we are under pressure not only from Afghan citizens who, rudely speaking, are fleeing the regime that is established there, but also from Syrian citizens who are passing through the territory of our country. In practice, this shows everyday life in our country, in the sense that yes, it is true, the number of Afghan citizens crossing the border is increased, but also Syrian citizens pass. It is known that Syrian citizens have easier access to Turkey as a state and the increase, which is times this year, compared to the same period of last year, I would say, already many times I stress it, 6 Here, of course, a factor is the fact that there are no such restrictions in Greece at the moment relating to the Kovid pandemic as there was last year, which partly explains why the pressure from migrants to our country has increased. What do we do and what do we plan to do from now on? Of course, the main force that counteracts the migratory pressure in Bulgaria, as is already known, which the Prime Minister said, of course, is relied on the Border Police Directorate. She's harnessed, I'd like to highlight that, an enormous potential of living power and technology. I believe that this is about the maximum that this service will have to give to defend the interests of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. If, of course, the pressure is increased to the extent that this national service cannot handle this task, then we plan, as we have already shared with the people's representation, to include forces of the Ministry of Defence. I am very much stressing this, as I have recently been sensing speeches that are contrary to this position that we are not hiding and which is possible to realise in the end, depending on the migratory pressure. This is not about using the forces of the army and, as some say, are we now at war and creating such false impressions both in Bulgaria and outside our country. Once again, we rely on the army only when we have no other options to counter the migratory pressure. I also appeal to you, and it has also shown in the meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security that there should be consensus on this issue, or so I think, among all political forces. After all, that is why we have a border, so you voted a few years ago to build a temporary fence facility that would prevent migrant waves, and, on the other hand, we made several visits to the border areas to see what state this fence facility was in, including the president and the prime minister. In this regard we have a lot of information and we have met with the district governors of Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol, and territorially, so to speak, a different part such as the length of the border line should be under the administrative authority of these district governors. It has been established that there is really a need for the fence facility to be restored to the places where it is destroyed, to carry out the necessary repairs, corrections and so on, including minor problems, not to mention them here before you. Of course, we have established that I have this reference, but we will not have enough time to introduce you to it.... 3, 4, 5 years back what funds are used, whether they are moisture or not, but we now find that this fence facility needs repairs. There are obviously enough arguments, by the way, in this regard, that the district governments in these three cities cannot obviously deal with this issue, we have to admit that. Secondly, there are daily patrols of Border Patrol forces, which find every day, if there is damage, violations of this border facility. It is better with these tasks that arise from the need to reform, maintain and so on, including not only the fence facility, but also the road network that is close to this facility, to be able to facilitate patrolling, especially in the winter months when it will be more complicated, more difficult. Therefore, the idea that we intend to implement is that this fence facility will become the power of the Border Police Directorate, which will also be involved in the maintenance of the fence facility itself. We also have the consent of the district governors, we had meetings with them. They've taken a look at those sections they've been in charge of so far. There's indicative draft paperwork or an approximate one. Of course, it's not that fracking and maybe 3 to 4 million. lv. it will cost the recovery, respectively the repair, so that in those two or three months that are to come, these repairs can be carried out. I think this could happen so that the fence facility becomes even more reliable and thus facilitates the activities of our border authorities. Do I still have time, Madame Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u238	You do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u239	Thank you. I would stress once again that yes, the involvement of the Ministry of Defence forces will only take place when the migrant pressure becomes so strong that only the forces of the Ministry of Interior will not prevent foreign citizens from entering the territory of our country. We only discussed this with the Secretary of Defense a few days ago. Otherwise, if the pressure to date were strong enough and unbearable enough, so to speak, for the border authorities, we would have made such an intervention. You well know that the invasion of migrants is in a rather large number, because they are really concentrated on Turkish territory and our border authorities notice them, naturally, then there will be quite serious difficulties in this direction, including their accommodation, maintenance and so on and so forth. I will just mention something else, as there are such questions sometimes. Of course, it is against those who traffic migrants, and such channels have, unfortunately, also criminal cases against those who carry out this activity, and they are approaching the figure 200. I can't tell you specifically, I don't think there's a question in this particular control to tell you, but if anyone is interested, of course I will give more specific information in this regard. That's pretty much the way it is. I would just like to share with you that I came home from a meeting of the interior ministers in Brussels yesterday, where, naturally, we have put our questions. There, as Minister Stoev said earlier, there is unanimity on the issue that assistance should be given, assistance to the Member States that are on the front line, among which, of course, Bulgaria. We very much rely on such support from the European Commission to be able, if necessary, to strengthen our opportunities for countering, as we are the entrance, if I may say so, for migrants to the Member States of the European Union. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We begin with the questions to the Prime Minister and Minister Rashkov. First, to the Prime Minister. There's such a people. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u241	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues! It is obvious that the problem of the migrant crisis excites us all and, I suppose, we will be unanimous in our desire to assist the state, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defense to secure everything possible, for a normal development of life in the country, even in such a migrant crisis. I understand that both the Prime Minister and the President and Mr. Rashkov have done research on the state of the border, on the encircling facilities, on the technical facilities that guarantee border security. As I understand it, from their media statements, their impression is no different from mine, which I have repeatedly expressed that the border facility has many problems, that the technique is somewhat out of order, that much of the sensors are not working, and they are a consumer that needs to be changed. It is good, however, before we take measures for this, to correct, to perfect and introduce some new technical means of protecting the border, to clarify what the quality of border facilities is at all. Because at the time when this border facility was built, there were specialists from Israel in Bulgaria who claimed that for a quarter of the price per kilometer, which was given for the construction of our border for this network, in Israel, they built a wall that is 3 meters high, with 2 meters buried in the ground so that it could not be passed under it. The same applies to technical equipment. They were given about 300 million for the development of border capacity and perhaps a large part of you know that for a long time they did not act because they did not provide funds for the operation and payment of electricity and electricity companies cut their electricity from time to time. In order to look into the future, we also need to look back a little bit to be aware whether these errors and these problems will not repeat whether the same companies will now be attracted to the repair of border facilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u242	Professor Radulov, the time is just to remind you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u243	Just a minute, I'm sorry, because it's important. Perhaps a large part of you know that this year the poppy harvest is very successful. That means that, along with migrants, they'll be crawling across the border with scars or otherwise emissaries carrying the drugs around. You know that about 90% of heroin comes from Afghanistan, and this is another danger for both us and Europe. So I'd like to know: are these things accounted for and what is the government, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defense going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u244	Thank you, Professor Radulov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Radulov, the questions you ask are important. It is good to know history, it is good to know exactly what has been done over the years with all the advantages, disadvantages and criticisms we have had about what has been done in the past and based on these criticisms to be able to make adequate decisions at present. There is an estimate of the exact condition of the partition facility. In general, of course, I have seen one part of this facility, which is mostly not compromised and is in good condition, but there are areas that, however, need repairing purely technologically. And yes, you are absolutely right that some of the sensors are not working, but these are, so to speak, technological problems that are being solved by the Directorate-General of Border Police on a daily basis with their capabilities, with the possibility of the companies with which they have maintenance contracts. It is important that, from now on, if there is a need for other contracts, the completion of this type of additional sensors be sufficiently transparent and accountable, so that taxpayers, on the one hand, are calm, including European carriers, where there is an opportunity to be made with the funds granted under the All this is taken into account and taken into account in the activities of the Ministry of Interior, and in particular the Directorate General of the Border Police. So the organization has it, we have these factors in mind, and we're taking them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u246	Thank you. From GERB-SDS issues? Here you go, Mr. Gadget. I suppose we should twist the questions to Prime Minister Yanev and then to Minister Rashkov. Let's keep them consistent.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, an important clarification, and it is more for the audience the army cannot protect the border alone. In the law adopted since 2015, the amendments say that the army can have only accompanying and supporting functions to the Ministry of Interior in Bulgarian legislation, while many of the regulations in NATO and the European Union outline the leading role of the Interior Ministry, in this case.. Under security at the border, the army can only assist. The support itself has many issues that need to be cleared cleanly as coordination between the two institutions if it comes to their activation. Speaking to President Miteva a moment ago, the next hearing, which will be held on Friday, will be closed so that they can now go into a more accurate tone and be able to share such information, which is of a more sensitive nature. By the way, I will take account of one of the things the Foreign Minister said about the people we are expected to accept in terms of solidarity that we have towards our two alliances, which is correct, as we must be solidarity in order for others to be solidarity with us. These are people, first of all, who worked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as it became clear, the staff, i.e. the people who supported the embassy in Afghanistan, the Bulgarian mission, people along the European diplomatic service and people on the line who supported ASAF. This is where the question arises, as yesterday the evacuation of Afghanistan and the US military finally withdrew from Kabul: did we withdraw other of our purely national assets that we had there, people who worked for the Bulgarian Armed Forces, to the services that are directly subordinate to the Prime Minister's
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u248	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I suggest that some of the answers and specifics of your questions remain for Friday, anyway we will continue this conversation as far as I understand it. But yes, Bulgaria does what is necessary. At the moment, we have, so to speak, half-finished work on evacuation for these Afghan citizens, for whom the Ministry has adopted a decision saying up to 70 Afghan citizens. Some of these citizens are already in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, another part are either in European territory or in European and neighbouring countries of Afghanistan. I guess if there's such an interest, I could explain in detail the situation on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u250	Thank you, too. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u251	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also think that in some way today's hearing is completely meaningless. We will hardly hear anything other than what has been said by this tribune and by the public appearances of the Prime Minister and the ministers. I myself have visited, as Chairman of the Defence Committee, the defence facility and I can put at least three or four specific questions here, but I am afraid that we really need to do so in a closed session. But we're all here anyway, to ask a specific question. First, I thank the Ministry of Defense for the correct answer and the specific accounts. Tomorrow at a Commission meeting we will discuss them and come up with concrete proposals. It is good to say that these estimates, these nearly 10 million.. 9 million 606 thousand, are based on 600 soldiers, as it was mentioned and the figure provided 1051, but this money will reach an average of 600 soldiers by the end of the year. I also wanted to say to Mr. Rashkov, I will not take the floor anymore, that no one has doubted the ability of the Ministry of Interior to deal with the situation, but it is simply the Minister of Defense in his statement a few days ago that the army will literally be deployed from today. That is why this haste and perhaps creating some impression in society that a quick solution is being sought. My specific question to Mr. Prime Minister is: in this need, which you have recorded in the capital-refundable repairs of the Cougar and Aerosonde Mk 4.7 Block G flight system, are very few funds. I would ask you to explain to us: how exactly do they relate to the specific subject, namely the security of the state border? I mean, are these funds absolutely necessary on the specific subject, or are they just an additional opportunity for the Ministry of Defence to solve a problem that must undoubtedly be solved and can also be resolved through the budget update? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u252	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, the short answer to the question is that in the estimates of the Ministry of Defense in general this type of readings and this type of thinking has it for a little reconstruction. The short answer is that there are other means of monitoring, but given the duration of the alleged period, given the need that all these funds should be rotted and rely on a larger resource, I suppose this is the basis of their request for repair of these two aircraft, which are of a different type, of course. They provide additional video surveillance from the air. Such funds are available to the Ministry of Interior, but, as you know, many times here, including from this tribune, we have commented. Only about a month ago in connection with the season of fires, so to speak, the limit of these aircraft is limited and that is actually the reason. From now on, whether it can be accepted as an emergency or not, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence themselves must motivate it better, I suppose you will invite them to the Commission to hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u254	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Shalamanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is related to the degree of compatibility and protection of communication information systems that use the Border Police and the Army in order to ensure a very good informational provision of these joint actions and to prevent detection by criminal groups related to migrant trafficking and other criminal activities, which Mr. Radulov spoke of: what is the level of this compatibility and this protection? There were publications in the past about the incompatibility of the TETRA system in the Ministry of Defence and in the Ministry of Interior, and the presence of various sensors was also mentioned. Is there an integrated monitoring system that can create a common picture of the situation and do there are mechanisms for the interaction of information exchange where necessary with neighbouring countries so as to increase the effectiveness of this operation and reduce the means necessary to ensure security? Finally, yes, we will look at the Defence Committee's demands from the Ministry of Defence. I hope that these funds will be provided not by the Defense function, but by the Internal Order and Security function, so that they do not damage the funding for the Defence function and for the development of capabilities in the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u256	Thank you, Mr. Shalamanov. Mr. Yanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shalamanov, briefly the answer to your questions is: yes, there is compatibility, there is coordination that in certain areas, at certain stages and segments of the coordination compatibility itself is made in a specific way. If we get into the technical details of whether there is compatibility between the two TETRA systems, obviously there is no. Yeah, that's why there's two of them, so we're saying that one of them belongs to the Ministry of Defense, and the other one belongs to the Ministry of Interior, but there are decisions that people on the ground have made. So the answer is: yes, the system functions, of course, integrated is not in the best way, but it works. If necessary, we can go into details and comment further on this issue on Friday, but the necessary support has been made. Coordination shall include with neighbouring countries. Of course, again in a certain order, not with our systems that exist. The last question concerning the request for a budget of the Ministry of Defence. Yes, I agree, it will not be from the functions of the Defence Committee, it is my insistence, but rather for the Commission for Action in Peace Time and Supporting the Population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u258	Thank you, too. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u259	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, the issue is extremely important... one of the important crises we are witnessing in the country, but as we have heard from both the Prime Minister's and the ministers' exhibitions, it is about humanitarian migrants, humanitarian refugees. There's something I'd like to make clear about. For me, Prime Minister, we are talking about a humanitarian migratory stream, which is not primarily intended for Bulgaria, but for Western Europe. This stream as a whole will not remain in Bulgaria, but will leave, pass and seek asylum in Western European countries. That's why I'm saying it's a transit road. Therefore, the main problem is not the crossing of the border, but the transiting of the border may be traveling by different vehicles. This transit flow, I suppose, will be quite large, more intense and will try to pass it with a maximum of two crossings. The other pass on foot, we understand that it is relatively secured there are cameras and, of course, this famous Bulgarian fence, which was compared to another fence, different facilities, X-rays and so on. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, my question is: what is the Bulgarian government doing or what is proposing to stop the transit flow and are there mobile teams prepared for this expected intensive transit flow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u260	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u261	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The organisation of border guards does not include only security at the border itself from the point of view of people who pass on foot. The organization is ubiquitous, including what is supposed to have mobile teams, yes, there are them both in close proximity to the border and inside the country. If we have to go into details, we're going straight into the Ministry of Interior's operational activities. I suppose it can be told and presented to the MPs, but it is preferable to be held in a closed session, because still, if we start discussing what are tactical actions at law enforcement level, we go a little outside the conversation that should be here, from this tribune, because not only people who are really interested, but other people, with other intentions would like to hear exactly what is being done. From this point of view, my proposal is, if necessary, to have a detailed conversation on the subject in closed session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u262	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. One last question from Stand up BG! We're coming! Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your participation in this hearing, although much of the information you have shared with us is already known by your public appearances from the previous days. It is always useful to participate in such debates in order to clarify some additional issues that arise in the audience and on the part of the Members of the National Assembly. This issue was raised in part by the funds required by the Ministry of Defence to fulfil their supporting role in security at the national border. These funds are not present in the State Budget update bill, which the National Assembly is about to consider in the next few days. In the Defence Committee, we have agreed, we have discussed the issue of supporting and maintaining the defence minister's request. At the same time, we are aware that in the Committee on Budget and Finance when considering proposals between the two readings, the State Budget Bill will have very strict control and careful precision of proposals in view of whether they are sufficiently well covered and in view of the revenue side of the budget. In this regard, it is also my question: is there an estimate, will the revenue side of the budget by the end of the year allow us to cover these additional costs, which we, of course, support and maintain in the forthcoming debates? It is necessary to have enough further arguments in the discussions on the state budget update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u264	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Janev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u265	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of finance are always important and really need to be debated and taken into account. From the point of view of the specific question asked about the expected revenues, I think that the budget update proposal itself gives the forecast, the expectations for possible revenues by the end of the year, which answer your question to a large extent. At the same time, there's a nuance. Part of these revenues, as set out in the Draft State Budget update, some of these revenues are provided for under the mechanisms of the Recovery and Development Plan. This nuance is important. It is important to say right here from this platform because the European Commission is waiting for the Bulgarian Recovery and Development Plan, agreed with the parties represented in the National Assembly. I suppose there is a procedure in which informally or formally, once you have been informed as MPs and at the level of committees that need to consider the Plan, it must be supported because some of the planned revenues in the state budget by the end of the year are precisely from the instruments of the Plan. Its submission within September and possible approval by the European Commission before the end of the year will allow certain costs to be relied on through this instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u266	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. We move on to the first questions to Minister Boyko Rashkov. There's such a people here, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u267	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Since Bulgaria is an external border of the European Union, Mr. Minister, I am interested in both us and the citizens, are negotiations with Is prevention working because we saw that prevention works in the previous elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u268	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u269	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, yes, of course these issues are being discussed with "Frontex" and not only with "Frontex." I highlighted in my previous speech that one of my deputies returned from Brussels yesterday, where talks are held at a high level, not only with Bulgaria's participation, of course, but also with other Member States in connection with migrant pressure. There is also this question about the migrant pressure that is found here, along the southeast borders on our country. We have a complete understanding of the need to provide the necessary funds. Next, I would point out that we are in an almost constant relationship between our border authorities, the Border Police Directorate General, with the Turkish and Greek border authorities. So we're trying to jointly counteract these processes. I think in this direction the organization is good, promising. I think it is in this way, because Bulgaria alone could not deal with this issue and we discussed it for a reason, and we continue, of course, to discuss the idea of including other forces in our country in countering the migrant pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u270	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. First question from GERB-SDS. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is provoked by the coming new wool in Bulgaria and the entering of a number of areas in the red areas. It concerns preparedness in temporary accommodation centres and measures taken to comply with distance, disinfection and vaccination. Just a few days ago on Friday, in the case of questions you answered, you said that the temporary accommodation centres were occupied between 75 and 80%. In this sense, what measures has the Ministry of Interior taken and the Ministry of Health, respectively, with a view to preserving and preserving the health and life of the workers there and the residents? Is there sufficient resources and is there a desire of those who are accommodated for vaccination? As there is sufficient means for disinfecting materials, masks and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u273	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the question is very important, of course, we have to admit that. I would respond briefly and clearly, yes, it is true, the wool cannot pass either the places or homes or the centres where migrants are accommodated. So our country takes the necessary measures to prevent the spread of this disease. I've had another occasion to answer that question from this tribune. I would repeat that at the moment it is accepted in one of these accommodation centres for foreigners, the first job to be done is to examine whether it has suffered from the coronavirus. So in this regard, we are uncompromising. Secondly, naturally, I have also answered this question, the necessary measures are taken relating to the disinfection, hygiene and provision of all medicines necessary to protect those placed against infection. I have stressed, I think, about two weeks ago, of course, that measures are being taken for those employees in these migrant accommodation centres who care for them, that is, those working there. In this regard, I will stress once again.. compromises are not made. What is done in other establishments and so on is done here. Because it depends not only on the health of the residents in these centres, but also on the health of the Bulgarian citizens, I repeat, I stress, who are working in these centres. Of course, some of them, as you know, are subsequently accommodated in the respective places of the Agency for Refugees. There, too, are taken care of until the problem of their status is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-01.u274	Thank you, Minister Rashkov. Looking at the time, we won't have time for any more questions, because the time of the meeting is over. There are committees, we haven't extended the meeting. I say we stop here and continue the hearing tomorrow until we're done with all the questions. The next meeting is tomorrow, 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
