ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u1	Honourable Members, in relation to the decision adopted yesterday in the event of technical failure to carry out registration through the computerised system, registration shall be made by roll-call reading of the names. I suggest we start the name check for registration. Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Nikolov Valchev- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Aleksandar Tihomirov Simov- here Alexander Filchev Mateev- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mihaylov(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Andrei Hristov Valchev- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Adamov here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram here Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Boris Tsvetkov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Vasileva Vasileva-Filadelfevs- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galya Marinova Burdarska (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- here Georgi Zaharinin Popov-here Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grigor Angelov Gorchev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva- here Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva- absent Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Jekova Taneva- absent Desislava Hristova Ahladova-Atanasova- absent Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- absent Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov- here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva- missing Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- here Enko Georgiev Naydenov- absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhivka Mihaleva Ironova- missing Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova - here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- absent Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivan Georgiev Velov- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov- here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilko Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- absent Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov- here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Milanov Ananiev- absent Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Georgiev Angelov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasen Kirilov Kralev - absent Krasimir Georgiev Valchev- absent Krasimir Hristov Nikolov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Dimitrov Borisov- absent Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- here Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Maxim Kolev Genchev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Vassileva Capon- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maston Osmanov Mastonov here. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Minko Velchev Angelov- here Mitko Hristov Kunchev- here Michaela Yasenova Krumova- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nevena Evstatieva Mineva- here Nikola Hristov Krastev- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Peter Hristov Dimitrov- here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Ivanov Milev- here Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Hristomirov Rashev- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov- absent Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza-here. Sasho Todorov Savov here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev- here Sevim Ismail Ali here Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- here Stanislav Dimitrov Govegorov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stanislav Todorov Trifonov- absent Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - here Stefan Nedelchev Mirev-here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Kostadinov Stoev- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Stratzimir Ilkov Pavlov- here Tanner Kadir Turkoglu- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova- absent Theodora Margarita Peneva- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- here Todor Baychev- here Todor Vassilev Vassilev-here Todor Stamatov Todorov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Tomislav Peykov Donchev- absent Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- here Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk here Philip Marinov Stanev-- here. Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Filcho Krastev Filev-- here. Hayri Recepov Sadakov- here Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid here. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hatice Mehmedova Georgieva- here Hristo Bogomilov Terziyski- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Ömer Mustafa Hamza- here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- here Found at 10:20 p.m. Colleagues, we have a quorum. According to my calculations 216 MPs. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will read you the National Assembly's Work Programme. At the Conference of Presidents, we united in the agenda agenda agenda to be included as a point and to accept the resignation of the Council of Ministers, which was announced yesterday at our plenary session. Program for the work of the National Assembly: "1." Adopt the resignation of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state enterprises and companies with more than 50 percent state participation in the last 4 years. 3. Hearing of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning:1. the measures and actions provided for in the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism established by Regulation (EU) 2021/241; 2. the presentation of the plan under point 2. 1 of the European Commission for assessment, by 30 April 2021; 3. the consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria of not presenting the plan under point 3. 1 within the term referred to in point 1. 2 and the taking of the corresponding responsibility. 4. Hearing of the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and the level and structure of the fiscal reserve as of 31 March 2021. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the following issues concerning state and public interests: What are the cash holdings in the state budget and how their development is planned by the end of the year. 6. Draft decision to elect a permanent Committee on Legal Affairs. 7. Draft decision on the election of a permanent Committee on Budget and Finance. 8. Draft decision on the election of a permanent Committee on Health. Within the term of the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly, a proposal was made by Maya Manolova to be included on the agenda of the following point: Draft decision on the award of the Council of Ministers to submit to the National Assembly the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan on the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism, established by a regulation, with reasons attached to it. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u2	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! That's what we heard. However, I would like to know on what legal basis do you vote on the resignation of the government? It shall be deposited and executed. The Constitutional procedure is clear: the resignation is not voted on. Please give me the legal basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u3	Mrs. Kanazireva, according to the Constitution. 111, para. 2, the acting Council of Ministers shall resign under the Constitution before the newly elected National Assembly. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] It has been submitted to parliament, but in order to objectify this resignation, there must be a constitutional act of its adoption. There's an al. 3 in which, after the resignation, the cabinet in force continues to serve until the election of the new cabinet, so on this basis the resignation must be voted on. Even more so in the Constitution itself, in several places in it, including in art. 111, all resignations shall be displayed with their adoption by the National Assembly. [[Applause from ICN, ISV and DB. Replies from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is nice from the second day of the National Assembly to observe the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 of the Constitution, para. 1 states: "The powers of the Council of Ministers shall be terminated, including the powers of the Council of Ministers. 2 is written: with acceptance of the resignation of the Council of Ministers or of the Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Not only does the resignation have to be voted on, not only does it have to be accepted, but the one who resigned must come to this chair. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]] I'm not sure who deposited the resignation in the Office yesterday. Yesterday in the National Assembly building, the Prime Minister did not come. I'm not sure there's been any coup in the country. [[Radio and lines.]] I don't know, have any of you seen the Prime Minister in this room yesterday? I'm asking the media. So my suggestion is that the point should be the way it is to vote, and, Madam President, to make every effort to make both constitutional and legal, and whatever other options you have, the Prime Minister to come to the House of the National Assembly at least to see the attitude of the Members of the National Assembly towards his resignation. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am somehow not surprised that the parliamentary group of GERB and SDS needs legal advice in the parliamentary hall. I'll leave it to you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I'm making a proposal under the procedure, as far as it's obviously going to be a good day. The sitting in today's day should be broadcast on BNT 1 and on BNR, because this should be monitored by Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u7	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I have two questions, and here the great legal thought on this left side of the House must tell me: firstly, what will happen when this resignation is voted on? What will happen in practice tell me? Will the government stop functioning? I will tell you the way in which it will stop - make a government and immediately Boyko Borisov will not be Prime Minister. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Do it, people. Say, will you rule or will you not rule? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Secondly, what will happen if this resignation is rejected? There's such a theoretical possibility. What's gonna happen? [[(Replying, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] How can there not be? Tell me, I want a lawyer to tell me, not a fan. What will happen if this resignation is rejected? I want a lawyer to come over and tell me what's going on? What?! The resignation will be withdrawn and the government will continue to be out of resignation, right? What's all this funny stuff you're doing here right now? We're going to vote on a resignation that's been filed. Resignation may be requested. A no-confidence vote can be requested. If you want, we can vote three times on this resignation. Do you want to vote three times? And tomorrow and the day after, let's do an emergency meeting, because we're really cool. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] That's funny work, guys. Let's get serious. We don't mind here. I say to you: we will vote ten times this resignation, but there are many other issues. Now you're gonna see how we're gonna lose two hours of bullshit. We'll lose two hours of parliament time in nonsense! We're not gonna increase his authority. Some of the parties have come here to increase the authority of parliament, and they will bring it down even more. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u9	Mrs. Doncheva, you have the floor. [[People representatives Tatyana Doncheva and Mika Zaykova are heading for the stands. Noise and lines. Huge applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u10	Mr. Bikov, you just insulted the Constitution and the laws of this country. Resignation must be voted on. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You can't call the texts of the Constitution and the laws ridiculous. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u11	Please vote on the procedure for the inclusion of BNT and BNR cameras. Vote 205 MPs: for 205, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please activate the cameras. Mr. Glauchev. We're continuing on the agenda project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! As Mr. Atanasov said to me, he was the chairman and that is exactly why I am going out. I feel very offended and let the color of the legal thought here say why my resignation is not voted in this House? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u13	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that the different parliamentary groups will not start competing with the Slavi show on the creation of a show because I think they are very uneven competitors. [[Relations and excitement.]] In accordance with art. 111 of the Constitution, first of all, this dispute is not raised for the first time. For the first time, this dispute was raised in the distant 2001 by me and my colleague Kornezov. We advocated your thesis at the time, believing that what is written in the Constitution is art. 111, not clear enough. The parliament then decided in the direction of a vote. This practice has been reproduced several times. Where do I think it comes from logically? In para. 1 of art. 111 says that the powers of the Council of Ministers are terminated by accepting the resignation of the Council of Ministers or of the Prime Minister. The adoption implies a targeted act, not a silent consent, that it is not voted on. The dispute over voting and non-voting resignations exists both in political parties and in public organisations and in commercial companies, and can be resolved differently in their statutes, but can even be resolved as you suggest that resignation is not voted. But in what the Constitution says, acceptance of resignation means a targeted act. In para. 2: The Council of Ministers is resigning before the newly elected National Assembly. It means that before the newly elected National Assembly, the Council of Ministers always resigns, even when the new majority is like the old majority, even when the new Council of Ministers can be verbatim like the old. But you are resigning and the new parliament is re-electing a government, even though it can be the same by composition. What does that mean in para. Two doesn't need a target act. No! Alinea 2 explains to you that in a newly elected National Assembly there should always be a resignation of the Council of Ministers that has acted so far. But by para. 1 The phrase: "with the acceptance of the resignation', which includes a targeted act, means that an act must be adopted. Yes, you can say: "As lawyers, we advocate another opinion, but the parliamentary practice created so far is to vote on these resignations. If you want us not to turn the platform of the National Assembly into some mentoring legal lecture and people to have the feeling that they are in some legal assembly where we will constantly read lectures after we have passed the topic of the Conference of Presidents and after the same arguments have been discussed perfectly in good faith there, I suggest that we move towards common sense, move in a normal direction of functioning, because the experience of having experience should have led us to the fact that the judge of the match should be invisible, then the game is running in a normal way, no one gets nervous, no self-serving procedural remarks are made, no delaying time. In this case, in view of the parliamentary practice, a vote is being put in place, so please be close to that and, if necessary, clarify it outside the stands. [[Applause from IMV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u14	For a line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u15	Dear Madam President. Dear Mrs. Doncheva, thank you for bringing in legal explanations and that is why I am also addressing you. You very accurately quoted the article of the Constitution, which says that: "With the acceptance of the resignation, the powers of the Council of Ministers are suspended." Does this mean that since we are now voting on this resignation, the current Council of Ministers will have no powers and we will practically have no executive power? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u16	Colleague Bikov, just now the President of the National Assembly explained this question to you, we do not need to repeat the same thing twice. [[Applause from ISV. National Representative Nadezhda Yordanova wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u17	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u18	Excuse me, Madam President, but... Colleagues, I will take the liberty of reading the provision of the Constitution yesterday, all of us received it: "In the cases of the previous paragraph, that is, when we have a resigned vote, the Council of Ministers shall carry out its duties until the election of a new Council of Ministers. " - So the Constitution very clearly says what will happen in the period from the vote and the adoption of the resignation until the election of a new President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u19	Can everyone introduce themselves? How do you keep track of time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u20	Yes, thank you. We're going to vote on... [[The National Representative Alexander Nenkov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u21	Madam President, honourable Members! I don't know if I should introduce myself, but... get to the point. See colleagues, you are, of course, entitled to accept whatever you decide. You have enough majority, even today you will see nicely who is really ruling and who is opposition. Even for the first time, by the way, in my history of parliamentarians, I don't know where to turn when I'm talking to our opponent. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] because apparently the opposition is in the middle, and the government is on both sides of this environment, but this is in parentheses. Colleagues, I don't want to argue about legal matters. It is clear to me what is really the goal.. you want to humiliate Boyko Borisov, the cabinet, GERB. Okay, do it. It's okay. However, I will remind you that you do not humiliate GERB, do not humiliate Boyko Borisov, you humiliate all the people who supported this cabinet and gave him the most trust again. As much as you like it or not, you have to take it in the end. And you can do whatever you want today, and you can decide what you want. It is obvious what will be the behavior of people who so praised the idea of raising the level of parliamentaryism and its rating. Even the other day, I told one of my colleagues from "There is such a people" that when the 45th National Assembly ended, I would remind him and give him, of course, objective data on how and how they raised the rating and image of parliament. And one more thing to tell you, fellow Members, whether or not the resignation is to be voted on today, I have told you what my motive is to make such a request. After all, the Constitution here says the following thing: these people, the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, are currently there at the will of the Bulgarian Constitution, which obliges them to perform their role as the Council of Ministers, so that there is no vacuum between one and another government. And what Mr. Bikov said was the right thing to do. Colleagues, at the end of the day, you have to start thinking differently. The elections have passed, the responsibility is on your shoulders and the sooner you make a government, the sooner your hateful cabinet of Boyko Borisov will go to history. So don't slow down, don't wonder how to get out of the situation you're in, because we see one by one your promises drop out even for a day or two, it doesn't have to go all week. In two days! So pull yourself together, make an office and Boyko Borisov and his office will soon go into history. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u22	Thank you. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Mr. Tsonev! [[People from different parliamentary groups exchange lines with each other.]] Colleagues, I propose that this discussion be concluded because on the basis of art. 53, para. 4 of the Rules of the National Assembly, on which we are working the project of a programme proposed by the President and the proposals received under para. 3 shall be put to the vote without taking part at the beginning of the plenary sitting at which the Programme is adopted. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mrs. Kanazireva, I have given you the floor out of respect for you, but I am putting an end to these debates and we are going to vote on the draft programme. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u23	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u24	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u25	I have the right to take a procedure in the manner of conduct. I have a question for the President of the National Assembly. [[DPS lines.]] Can you tell me today when we voted on the agenda programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u26	We're voting now. We didn't vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u27	Isn't this done at the beginning of the session? [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Mr. Tsonev, you are an experienced parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u28	Now we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u29	We're at the beginning of the meeting, aren't we? So far, we've made a registration. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u30	Because we made a registration. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please, whoever agrees with the so proposed Programme, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u31	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u32	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u33	Against? Abstained? I won't. Please, the result. 217 MPs have supported the proposed Programme. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "We have not voted! We did not vote!]] Sorry, we'll have to recalculate them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u34	Well, we'll do the math! There's no system!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u35	155 and 2 online.. 157 MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u36	In groups!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u37	By groups: "There is such a people". 48,.. Stand up! Goons out! ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. They're all for it. Regarding the proposal made by Maya Manolova, a letter was received from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on preparation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and the plan is attached to the letter. In this regard, I believe that there is no basis for voting or for inclusion on the agenda. The plan is already in the National Assembly, so I suggest that this item is not on the agenda. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.]] Yeah, a reverse offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a reverse proposal that this item be on the agenda. Another month of February, as President of the Committee on European Affairs, I had the initiative to look at all these plans in the relevant parliaments. My colleagues from Germany then, the Presidency and from Ursula von der Lien itself recommended to all Member States to look at national plans in the parliaments. GERB firmly refused this plan to be viewed in parliament. My personal opinion is that there are many questions that need to be clarified before a decision is made. Because the delay itself, colleagues, will result in a delay in the procedure itself. It would be nice to have a debate here, too. How, for example, these territorial plans for a fair transition, I do not see Mr. Donchev, who are mainly for coal areas, there are MPs here, as I from Stara Zagora, I suppose there are also from Pernik, and from Kyustendil, these plans still, colleagues, are not ready. They are given to experts from abroad. These people can only appreciate politics, but they can't do our homework. We must create these plans and then the experts from abroad will appreciate them. Only GERB didn't understand how it was done. They always give it to someone on the outside, you see, in quotes expert, and when he writes our homework, here we go. These plans are not yet linked to this plan, which is currently being submitted for consideration. It would be nice to have a debate and here Tomislav Donchev himself to explain to us when these plans will be ready, how they are committed to the National Plan for a fair transition, is this amount enough or not? Because one France, for example, the Commission has set aside 50 billion euros for support, but they have decided that they need 100 billion and additional co-financing from the country itself. We in Bulgaria rely solely on European funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u39	Mr. Stoinev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u40	Therefore, I suggest not only to bring it in and say: "Come on now, get well!" - No, Mr. Donchev should explain what motivated this, how discussed, what is the opinion of the business, what is the opinion of the respective mayors in these settlements to know...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u41	Mr. Stoinev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u42	Let me finish a sentence, I'm sorry. ...what we have to do. My personal opinion, but I will say this later, during the debate, if there is one, it is good to explain to us what philosophy was and how to build on. Because of our fellow Members, the plans are extremely ambitious, making major transformations in the field of energy, while we are dealing with renovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Let me just explain that the Deputy Prime Minister has introduced the Plan. He's in the National Assembly. The proposal is for the submission of the Plan, not for discussion in the National Assembly. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] This is already a matter of another procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u44	Mrs. Chairman! Here, obviously, we're going to play from this tribune of slowing down parliamentary time. The things are quite clear. The third point is a hearing of the Prime Minister on the grounds of art. 113. There are three points of the second is the presentation of the Plan under point. 1 of the European Commission for evaluation. The fact that the plan has been tabled, that point remains. He brought it in, and we're gonna ask him to present it from the stands so that we can have a debate and discuss it. My procedure is that there is no need to change anything in point. 3, we're just moving forward on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u45	Yes, thank you. Mr. Sandov, please introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u46	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable viewers of the Bulgarian National Television and listeners of the Bulgarian National Radio! My name is Borislav Sandov from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. This issue of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan is not just a matter of 12 billion. It is not just a question related to an indicative period of 30 April, which means very soon. This is a question about the future of Bulgaria and is part of the mechanism for the future generation. He's not a question... [[(Replication by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva:]] Thank you so much for not letting me speak. I'll get to the procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva. This issue is placed on the agenda, it is on the agenda of our society and it is not the idea to simply be uploaded to the site. We've seen both the first and the second version of the site. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This represents... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Sorry, stop calling. It's not cultural somehow, it doesn't honor you. Thank you. This issue, which we are debating today, requires answers on several questions, and therefore my procedure is to remain on the agenda, to have a hearing and to answer several questions. One of them relates to what time frame and extension was requested by the Council of Ministers, given that Mr. Donchev presented a week ago in a discussion in which we were together that this plan would not be submitted to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u47	Mr. Sandov, the program has been voted on. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Program is the Prime Minister's hearing. She's on the agenda, she's not out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u49	Mrs. Maya Manolova's proposal relates to the submission of the Plan to the National Assembly, which has already been submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u50	My procedure is to bring in the whole plan... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u51	But it's imported.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u52	...not just 10%, I apologize very much. The whole plan includes the 47 projects in this plan, includes the time frame. Because, excuse me, gentlemen and ladies of GERB, but your government, on which we are now accepting the resignation, has not uploaded all the documentation. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u53	Mr. Sandov, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u54	Separately, tender procedures have been initiated. So the whole plan, not this descriptive part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u55	Mrs. Manolova, do you want to vote on this proposal? [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Maya Manolova.]] Mrs. Manolova, Mrs. Vasileva was before you...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u56	But it's about a proposal... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] After all, I am the importer of the proposal to demand the plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u57	Importer when your point comes, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u58	You're not the chairman at the moment. If you'd like to stay as your MP, please don't call. There's the chairman behind my back. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u59	Mrs. Vassileva. [[Loud noise and lines.]] She had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u60	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure is for you, Madam President. Please clarify the debate that has been wrapped up in the Parliamentary Hall. In my opinion, my colleagues have misunderstood exactly what we are discussing. Mrs. Manolova's proposal is to submit the document, which has already de facto been submitted to the National Assembly and deposited by letter from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] In this sense, the discussion and the vote on this proposal is totally meaningless. On the other hand, the already voted agenda includes a point where a hearing is intended to be held on the Recovery and Sustainability Plan and to be presented to the Members of the National Assembly and the public. We not only do not object to this, but we will support the proposal to present the Plan to the National Assembly. In this sense, it may be appropriate to put an end to this debate, and the discussions that are essentially and have already been started by colleagues, let them be carried out in the course of the procedure when the item on the agenda comes. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u61	Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are talking about a draft decision which I have submitted yesterday in due order, with the urging of the Council of Ministers to be obliged to submit the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, something which he did not do, as it became clear from Mr. Stoinev's statement, for the entire mandate of the previous government and the previous parliament for the two years in which the preparation of this plan is actually under way. Since my colleague Sandov expressed quite reasonable concerns as to which version of the Plan is presented in Parliament and whether it contains all the projects that are already prepared and on which after approval of the European institutions to have funding, let the point remain to be informed about what exactly Borisov has imported. In fact, since yesterday the parliament has, Mr. Bikov, two victories. The first, asking for a hearing, Borisov went on leave just for today to not appear in parliament, and the second victory is that the plan, which refused to show for months, was still found in the National Assembly, came out of the drawers of his officials. Let the point remain so that we can see what Borisov has brought in after all is this the whole plan, are these all the projects that we wanted to present? So I insist that the item on the agenda remain in the Programme Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I'm calling off the debate. [[Reply from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]] I have clearly read to you the terms of the Rules of Procedure that it is without discussion. I won't give you the floor. Mr. Bikov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u64	Madam President, I want a personal explanation. I was mentioned, I was mentioned by name. I suggest we force the government to submit this plan three times. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] Anyway, we're going to vote his resignation twice to submit the plan three or four times so we can watch it three or four times.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u65	Please vote on Maya Manolova's proposal for inclusion on the agenda of the last item of the Plan. [[Loud noise and lines.]] No, it's an offer made by 6:00 p.m. and it's not in the Project Program. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Yeah, the program we voted on. We now move on to the proposal of the MP Maya Manolova. [[Lowered noise and lines: "Vote to join the Program. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u66	Art. 53, para. 4. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Vote 157 MPs: for 157, against and abstention there is no. [[Replyes:.]] There is such a people. Goons out! ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Mrs. Atanasova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! It really seems to me that there was confusion in the Chamber because, on the one hand, the National Assembly adopted the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 16 April at 10:00. The majority has just decided to oblige Prime Minister Borisov to present the proposals and reasons in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability. [[Reply from the National Representative Tatiana Doncheva: "It has not solved it. The item is on the agenda and nothing has been taken...]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u68	Okay, thanks. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] I'd like to clarify something, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u69	We'll sort it out at the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u70	...and from the leadership, and from the front row, colleague Karadayi. Point 3 of the Prime Minister's hearing today and today's programme, and the new point that you have just included a Prime Minister's hearing, does it mean that today he will be heard, on Tuesday 20 April, too, provided that the Plan we have all talked about has already been submitted to the National Assembly's proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u71	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, when we reach these points, Parliament will take its decision and then the answer will be clear. Before we continue, honourable Members, let us have a happy Constitutional Day and Bulgarian lawyers! Let me, on our behalf, address the Bulgarian citizens with a wish for controversial work and let us all remember that the laws have the power to punish but also to cure. When they're good, they change the world. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]] Please come in and introduce yourself. [[Loud noise and lines.]] A declaration on behalf of a group. I give the floor to Mr. Alexander Simidchiev for a declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u72	A declaration on behalf of a group. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u73	A declaration on behalf of a group is requested before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u74	But before the group is given the floor, no one should go out on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u75	He should be invited.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u76	I give the floor to Mr. Alexander Simidchiev for a declaration on behalf of a group. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 54, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I would like to read a statement from the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Bulgaria. Yesterday it was understood that with the order of the Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has ceased the activities of the National Operational Headquarters. This, together with the low effectiveness of the vaccination campaign, appears to be an active event for destabilizing the control of the pandemic, depriving it of active management and coordination. The doctor in me cannot understand or justify how, at a time when we are still in an active pandemic situation with more than 2300 newly infected people per week on a weekly basis and with almost 120 dying per week on a weekly basis of hospitals full of almost 10 000 patients of COVID-19, of which 8% are in intensive wards, and an unpredictable trajectory of the newly infected ones is abdicated from the underlying management of the crisis. What did you put that on? What measures are offered in return? What we have heard are ongoing briefings that do not serve to plan and offer solutions, but only to find out. The Council of Ministers' announcement did not reveal who and with what motives decided to disband the Headquarters and will be responsible for the implementation and coordination of the measures against COVID-19. The National Operations Headquarters was established a year ago, without the National Pandemic Plan being activated, it was not clear whether the Headquarters was leading shorthands, there were no publicly known operational plans and criteria, which is why it is not clear with its dissolution whether it will be able to have a report on what was done, to serve as a transition and in the forthcoming activation of the Pandemic Plan in the next government. The solution is the immediate restoration of the National Operations Headquarters with the commitment and all available documentation to be submitted so that there can be continuity in the further control of the pandemic. Just days ago, Borisov announced that his government will not submit the Recovery Plan to the European Commission. [[Heckling]] Yesterday after blaming us for committing sabotage, he decided to transfer responsibility for his submission to the National Assembly. Unusual is the decision to leave Borisov on leave on the day of parliamentary control for questions to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u78	We can't make a statement on issues that are being discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u79	Against this background, the news of the closure of the National Operations Headquarters seems like another solution in style: After me and the flood. [[Relations of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] But this is about playing with people's greatest fears about the health and life of their loved ones. [[Relations of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The continuity, the relationship with the nation and the responsibility for it are the crowns of restoration of statehood, for which is all our effort in this Parliament. Political positioning, however, has lost the touch of humanity, which has been hardly heard in recent months anyway. At the beginning of this Parliament, we can stand before our constituents in an effort to justify their trust with active and adequate constructive action. Political decisions today will have an effect both tomorrow and the day after and years after. They will be judged by the distance of time and sooner or later the price will be paid. But when decisions are measured with human health and irreparable loss of life, that price is impossible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB, ISV, ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u80	Thank you. For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u81	Dear Madam President, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct with one request. Yesterday, we decided we were on the same page as the old book, didn't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u83	In the old Rules of Procedure there are clearly written texts that determine the time of the parliamentary groups, the time for attitude, the time for speaking under procedure... within two minutes, and respectively the time for personal explanation and so on. I ask you to explain to us: firstly, how we will follow the procedures over time, how we will time from now on to avoid chaos in Parliament, and, secondly, to present to the MPs in view of the subsequent discussions on the substance of the points of time available to the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u84	Thank you. Given that, and I guess that's why you're doing it, there's no electronic system, not our fault, I'd like to point out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u85	How is that not your fault? Whose fault is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u86	Members of Parliament have decided where to meet, so I think this is not an issue that we can comment on now. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Once we are in this Chamber, each room of the National Assembly, where it can sit, should be equipped with the necessary equipment, as required by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u87	How much time is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u88	And with regard to the minutes of detection, colleagues from the administration will time and it will be submitted to be respected as defined in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We're moving on. They've made decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u89	A declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u90	On behalf of the parliamentary group, stand up! - Goons out! - He's got the word Maya Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u91	Ladies and gentlemen! I am making this declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. The issue of the dissolution of the National Operational Headquarters, without explanations and without motives yesterday, is an act of irresponsibility by the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Prime Minister. This was also the subject of the declaration by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic... [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: We understand! We've all heard!]] which Mr. Simidchiev announced and which could not be heard in plenary because of the scandals in the front row. But I assure you that the issue of the management of the health crisis is an issue that interests and concerns Bulgarian citizens much more than the meaningless debates that have so far taken place in Parliament. So this topic must sound from the parliamentary platform. Borisov is obviously conducting a penal action against Bulgarian citizens, against Bulgarian patients...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u92	What is this declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u93	... Acting on the principle: After me and the flood, disbanding without explanation the National Operations Headquarters, which is the unit that manages the crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u94	What is this declaration?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u95	Borisov is obviously also trying to escape responsibility and discharge the National Operational Headquarters. For this reason, it must sound like he can free them from work, but he cannot relieve them of their responsibility and responsibility will be borne by them, by him and the health minister, as individuals engaged in the pandemic and in the management of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u96	Let's vote to get back to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u97	Bulgarian citizens want to know why Bulgaria became the champion of mortality? Why did thousands of Bulgarians lose their lives, some of which could obviously be saved? The statistics are really startling. In 2020, the total number of deaths was 18,746 more than in 2019. Of them registered as dead by the CIVID-19 were only 7576. The Prime Minister owes an answer and this will be an occasion for a request for a hearing next week of the following questions: why is our country in the first place on a total mortality indicator over the past few years before COVID-19? Is there an analysis of the causes and plan of action? Why in 2020? 11 170 people more died compared to the previous year, without being declared as such by a horse? In 2019, Bulgaria's total mortality rate reached 15.5 per thousand in the world. In 2020, the coefficient was 17.8 and from the beginning of this year this coefficient reached 21.03. Honourable Members, these are not the elections in which the dead souls on the lists are simply marked as voting Bulgarian citizens. These are blackened Bulgarian families, these are funerals. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] These are dead people. These are human dramas in thousands of Bulgarian homes. Here, from this tribune, the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and the Health Minister in resignation owe these questions answers. The Bulgarian Parliament cannot remain idle as regards the management of the health crisis. It must undoubtedly be expert, it must be professional, and after the body that has been dealing with analysis of information and preparation of solutions has been disbanded without motives, the parliament should decide what the next body to deal with the management of the crisis should be, or we should hear Prime Minister Borisov resigned what he proposes, how the health crisis will be managed. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Believe me, believe me that this issue interests people more than the formal disputes how to vote Boyko Borisov's resignation. People have spoken in the summer that they want this resignation and that it is late. People are interested in how to manage the health crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u98	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u99	What we will demand is for Borisov to come here and give answers to these questions, because this concerns thousands of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I will now read to you the allocation of time in relation to the application of art. 58, para. 2 of the Rules for Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: GERB 30 minutes, with an extension of 40 minutes; There is such a people................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Goons out!.. 10 minutes, with a length of 13 minutes. Declaration on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria was extremely anxious to meet the decision of the Council of Ministers from yesterday to disband the National Operational Headquarters. Undoubtedly, we believe that serious shortcomings in the management of the health crisis have been made in the activities of the Headquarters, many unnecessary fears and many contradictory opinions have been created in society, but the state's stay now without crisis management and indeed what has been said without a clear idea of how to take account of the activities of this headquarters, creates many unpleasant issues and raises even more fears in people. Therefore, our proposal to the honourable Members of the entire Chamber is now, at the end of this day when a health committee is elected, one of its first tasks is to analyse carefully with all the necessary documents, which should be requested by the Council of Ministers, which appointed the National Operations Headquarters, which appointed a second headquarters afterwards and literally closed it in two weeks, which appointed the National vaccination headquarters, which completely confused Bulgaria's vaccination plan, which put Bulgaria at the last place in number, which puts Bulgaria at risk to ruin its summer season, all this committee should analyse, present to Parliament and the Bulgarian Parliament on behalf of the Bulgarian people its opinion in the interests of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u102	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u103	Mr. Chakarov, a statement on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u104	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Rights and Freedoms Movement for us the closure of the National Operations Headquarters will be absolutely unmotivated at this time when we have not yet overcome the third wave of a very serious pandemic. In this way, we deprive ourselves of control of the pandemic. No arguments were put forward for the closure of the National Operations Headquarters. We are just beginning to hear and understand what the considerations were. The government is resigned and must continue to fulfil its commitments, and one of the most important of them at this time is control of the pandemic. What is offered instead of the NIGHT instead of the National Operations Headquarters? Nothing. That's not a responsible position. There should be an alternative to this operational body, which was bringing both peace and security, and showed coordination with regard to actions to overcome this serious pandemic. The establishment of a government may also take a certain amount of time, what will it be in terms of operational activity, coordination and actions with regard to the pandemic in this situation? Does it follow that there must be timelessness and no action? It's not serious, it's not responsible to all of us as citizens, to our entire society. Indeed, this headquarters gave the public some security. In that case, we can also say that closure is a kind of abdication from any control of the pandemic. Let's hope that's not true. In this regard, I am convinced as a doctor that the health system is functioning seriously and colleagues are making huge efforts. Professor Gorchev, I see you're nodding and approving what I'm saying. Unfortunately, with the victims who took this pandemic, many of our colleagues lost their lives on the front front and in the fight against this very serious disease. I would really like to call on everyone to be responsible because we still have over 2,300 infected per day and 120 dead. Unfortunately, a sad, black statistic. We are in second place within the European Union in terms of mortality. The good in this case is that in the trend in recent days there has been a reduction in those who have suffered from this insidious disease, but this should by no means calm us down, but on the contrary, we must make the necessary efforts. We know that the Headquarters was created by order of the Prime Minister and again by order of his is being closed, but is this the way to proceed at the moment? This, of course, is in his rights, but we really need to think about an alternative to this body, which, as I just said, has brought a certain security and calmness to the country for all of us citizens, that also for colleagues who work on the front of the healthcare system. The situation is serious, colleagues, and we need to be adequate to what needs to be done as quickly as possible. On behalf of our parliamentary group, we believe that there should be an operational body to coordinate the actions - and to continue fighting this treacherous disease. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u105	Thank you. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, responsibility is the most important quality that both the medics who are struggling with the pandemic and all those who are elected to represent the people and to rule the country at the moment. In this regard, it is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly to ensure compliance with the anti-epidemic measures in plenary. There is no distance between the MPs in this Chamber. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] In this Chamber people are allowed to stand without masks in violation of the rules introduced demonstrably before the Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us now and who expect us, especially from the new people in this Parliament, who say that they are really for raising the level of parliamentaryism and the rating of the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Please don't let that happen. I'm asking you to get the MPs to wear masks. Otherwise, the subject is really very convenient with the management of the epidemic, but we should also approach it responsibly and remind ourselves that in the Health Act it is written that the responsibility for the policy in the healthcare system belongs to the Minister of Health and the Council of Ministers. All other organs have auxiliary importance. I ask for order in this Chamber in relation to the anti-epidemic measures. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u107	As far as I can see, all my colleagues have put on their masks. [[Noise and lines.]] It's only Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Hadjigenov, I'm making a note! [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] Decisions have been made by the Central Election Commission for the announcement of MPs. I will only read you the operatives of the decisions. Decision No 2462-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a MP from the Nineteenth Election Region Rusenski, Alyse Kiyamilova Murtezova, with EGN..., from the list of GERB-SDS Coalition, for the time during which Krasen Kirilov Kralev served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2461-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. shumenski, Dimo Chavdarov Georgiev, with EGN..., from the list of the Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Krasimir Georgiev Valchev served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2460-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-eighth Election Region of Targovishtki, Mitko Staykov Stykov, with EGN..., from the list of GERB-SDS Coalition, for the time during which Temenuzhka Petrova Petkova served as Minister in Retirement. Decision No 2459-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski, Radostin Radoslavov Tanev, with EGN..., from the list of GERB-SDS Coalition, for the time during which Lachezar Dimitrov Borisov served as Minister of Retire. Decision No 2458-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, Georg Daniylov Georgiev, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Rosen Dimitrov Zhelyazkov served as Minister in Retirement. Decision No 2457-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-First Election Region of Slivenski, Galya Eneva Zaharieva, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Desislava Zhekova Taneva served as Minister in Retirement. Decision No 2456-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a MP from the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernik, Hristina Ivanova Georgieva, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Desislava Hristova Ahladova-Atanasova served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2455-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. Mr. Dobrichki, Zornitsa Nikolaeva Mihailova, with EGN..., from the list of the GERB-SDS coalition, for the time during which Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva performs the functions of a minister in resignation. Decision No 2454-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a Member of Parliament from the Sixth Election Region of Vrachanski, Miroslav Ivanov Asparuhov, with EGN..., from the list of GERB-SDS Coalition, for the time during which Petya Tsvetanova Avramova served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2453-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a MP from the 10th Election Region of Kyustendilski, Alexander Ivanov Parizov, with..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Hristo Bogomilov Terziyski served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2452-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared a Member of Parliament from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovo, Lyubomira Simeonova Popova, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Kostadin Georgiev Angelov served as a minister in resignation. Decision No 2451-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as MP from the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernishki, Alexander Petrov Alexandrov, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Kiril Milanov Ananiev served as minister in resignation. Decision No 2450-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared as a Member of Parliament from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki, Desislava Angelova Todorova, with EGN..., from the list of GERB-SDS Coalition, for the time during which Ekaterina Spasova Gecheva-Zaharieva performs the functions of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in Retirement. Decision No 2449-NS, Sofia, 15 April 2021. He declared a Member of Parliament from the Seventh Election Region of Gabrovo, Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov, with EGN..., from the list of Coalition GERB-SDS, for the time during which Tomislav Peykov Donchev served as Deputy Prime Minister in resignation. Please invite the MPs to take an oath. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u108	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Messages of drafts and drafts of decisions received for the period 15 April 2021: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It was introduced by Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov and a group of MPs. Bill amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It's a bill for old people. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. It was introduced by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. It was introduced by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. It was introduced by Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. It was introduced by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft decision on the award of the Council of Ministers to submit the National Plan to the National Assembly. It was introduced by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova, Maria Vasileva Kapon and Tatiana Doncheva. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Committee on Review for the identification of abuses, violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state authorities, state-owned enterprises and companies with more than 50 percent state participation in recent years. It was introduced by Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova and a group of MPs. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u109	Mrs. Chairman! I am taking a procedure under the legislation you have just read in the National Assembly and I would like to clarify. First of all, I would like to begin with: to congratulate all lawyers the celebration and the Day of the Constitution, and in this regard to ask: is there a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Constitution, as under the Constitution itself. 154, para. 1: The right to amend and supplement the constitution belongs to a quarter of the MPs and the President. In this case, I would like to ask: has there been a project submitted with 60 signatures already? Because 240 a quarter is 60 people. If it was 120, it would be 30, but it's not 120. In this regard, I would like to ask: is there such a project submitted to the Ministry with less than 60 signatures, because at least in my opinion it would be unconstitutional and, secondly, if not imported, it is better to remove it from the National Assembly's website or to say that it is a depositary and collect signatures so that other Members of the National Assembly can sign it? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. As far as I was able to get acquainted with the submitted bill this morning, it was made as a bill, but it is a project, i.e. a proposal for support, but that is how it was submitted to us in the reference to the drafts. I don't think there's enough 60 signatures... [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that all these bills are not distributed and the establishment of permanent committees is pending, so that if they meet the requirements of the law, they will be allocated and directed to committees. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u111	If there are no signatures, they won't be distributed anywhere. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u112	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u113	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think we should show a little more respect for parliament, and in a previous parliament, half of the GERB MPs would have already had remarks or one part of them expelled. I ask you very much to stop yelling and keep a little order in the room. Madam President, go into your duties and make remarks to the people who have not stopped calling since morning to enter into a dialogue with you, with the Vice-Presidents. Currently the meeting of the National Assembly is delivered directly on the Bulgarian National Television and on the Radio. I am glad that Bulgarian citizens can see what the group of GERB and SDS is like when it is in opposition, but let them have respect for parliament. Enter order and move on to serious work, because obviously the purpose of the GERB-SDZ group is today to delay time, to create obstacles in the work of the National Assembly, to ask questions of which they do not normally belong here, from the parliamentary tribune, to create conflicts in the Chamber to show that this National Assembly cannot function effectively. We know very well, honourable Members, that you are very good at sabotage, but let the rest of us show that we will not allow this National Assembly to work that way. [[GERB-SDS lines]] Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u114	Thank you. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u115	Thank you, Madam President. I absolutely support what Mr. Vigenin said in the part that we need to get back to the rules. However, Madam President, before we go back to the rules and parliamentaryism, in this House you need to explain the rules regarding the time for speaking of the groups, who detects it...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u116	Didn't I say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u117	...and who informs the National Assembly and also whether the question we have raised regarding the ineligible Constitutional bill submitted by the Members of the "Democratic Bulgaria" will be declared withdrawn by you or by themselves. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u118	Mrs. Atanasova, I think I have explained the issue of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Constitution and what is its status, whether there will be a move and what is the procedure at all. In terms of time, I also explained who's watching the weather, what the weather is, I even read it to you. I think there's nothing more to debate about. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] When the time is over or exceeds, they will signal. We continue on point one of the National Assembly's Work Programme: ACCEPTANCE OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mr. Angelov, come in. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS. Scandal by BSP for Bulgaria]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u119	Thank you, Madam President. She resigned. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened to everything that was said about the National Operational Headquarters, I looked very carefully at the concerns of each of the speakers about the health and life of the Bulgarian citizens, but I do not understand one thing: when this tribune talks about concerns about the life and health of the MPs and all the other Bulgarian citizens and when are we really? When are we telling the truth when we speak from the parliamentary stand, or when we are standing in the room without masks?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] For example, Mrs. Doncheva, you have the wrong mask! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Then what thought about the life and health of Bulgarian citizens are we talking about?! With regard to the National Operational Headquarters, ladies and gentlemen, and with regard to the responsibility for the health of all Bulgarians, the election campaign ended more than a week ago. During this election campaign and a whole year before the Ministry of Health explained how there was no such pandemic! Some of you burned masks and some of you called doctors criminals! You said there wasn't such a pandemic! And now I'm ashamed as a doctor. With regard to legality and liability, it is clearly and precisely written in the Law, only that I doubt that it is read by all the Minister of Health is responsible for the management of the health crisis and not the National Operational Headquarters, which is an advisory body of the Prime Minister. The National Operations Headquarters is not proposing measures. The measures are proposed by law by the Chief State Health Inspector. What legality are you talking about, and what other messages are you referring to when you do not comply with the laws in the country? The law is clear! I have always stood before you and today I gave a briefing to the Bulgarian society and will continue to do so because I am a responsible doctor. Yeah, you can yell a lot about dealing with the Kovid situation, but we got the third wave! [[Shouts from ISN, ISMV: "Woo!," loud applause from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov, for putting on your mask, because during the day you weren't wearing a mask.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u120	How many dead today? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u121	Madam President, may I continue? Dear colleagues, Bulgarian healthcare and Bulgarian doctors do not deserve what is happening in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u122	You should be ashamed of yourself as a minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u123	Mrs. Manolova, I will not enter into a dialogue with you, I understand that you have a desire, but I do not wish to have a dialogue with you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] The National Operations Headquarters was made up of decent people. General Mutafchiyski is a worthy Bulgarian doctor, a worthy military doctor, a general capable of taking responsibility and making difficult decisions in difficult times! [[Bourney applause from GERB-SDS]] Then, when we see the end of the third wave of the Kovid crisis, it is very easy to read declarations from the parliamentary tribune. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] But where were you all during the second wave when we didn't have air in hospitals? . [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] Where were you? Only a few of you explained how easy it was and went into hospitals and took a few pictures in two days? [[Applause from GERB-SDS. National Representative Ivan Chenchev is without a mask in the hall.]] Put on your mask, I think you should wear your mask! Regarding Bulgarian doctors, I want to tell you something: they have suffered a lot, they know who is telling the truth and who is telling the lie! They remember who was next to them in the difficult times, they know who was with them in the hospitals, who provided everything they needed, starting with decent pay, personal protective equipment, disinfectants. The sisters escaped because of your politics. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Thank you again. [[(Noise and screams from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u124	Mr. Minister Angelov, on the grounds of art. 65 I'm obliged to give you time to speak. I'll give you a total of 15 minutes, and so far you've talked for nine minutes. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u125	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Government requires something very important... [[Noise and lines.]] Government requires something very important! The Corona crisis is the most important thing currently standing before the Bulgarian people as a test. A similar type of speech from the parliamentary tribune that shakes confidence in the institutions which question the successful decisions taken so far and which shake confidence in Bulgarian doctors will not lead to anything good. Yesterday you said many times from this parliamentary tribune that the Unity makes the force, only in the form of declarations you prove otherwise. Disunity doesn't make power, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u127	Four years you've been splitting it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u128	And if I'm used to teaming up as a doctor, then I know that only teamwork can save the patient. Prove that the people in this hall are at the height of saving Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(The representatives of GERB-SDS are right and are loudly applauding. Shouts from the MPs of BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u129	We continue on the first item on the agenda: Project! DECISION adopting the resignation of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 111, para. 2 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He accepted the resignation of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u130	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u131	We take the floor, Mr. Glauchev, on the item on the agenda. [[Laughter, lines.]] Madam President, honourable Members! On the day of the Constitution, the first item on our agenda is on the Constitution. The dispute that broke out, should this item be on the agenda or was not essentially on the Constitution. Is this procedure signed or not signed? In my opinion, we should have argued more essential when the time came for the point, but it doesn't matter. Either way, the argument started. I was very impressed by the words of my colleague Nenkov that the purpose of this point is to humiliate the Bulgarian prime minister. Since it's Constitutional Day, I kind of feel obliged to talk about the Constitution a little bit. The Bulgarian Prime Minister cannot be humiliated by calling in the National Assembly when he is to appear before the National Assembly when he has to give a report to the National Assembly when he has to resign to the National Assembly. For every Bulgarian prime minister, for every Bulgarian minister, this should be a matter of honor for every Bulgarian. [[Applause from BSP, DPS, ICN.]] This is not the case for the current Bulgarian Prime Minister. It wasn't the same for much of the ministers. Dear colleagues from GERB, it was not the same for you for a very long time. I say this with respect to the Bulgarian Prime Minister, who has been Prime Minister for 10 years and who is still Prime Minister, I also say it with respect to you. Because the Constitution, under which the fourth people chose us and sent us here, decrees that all power is derived from the people. It's delegated to us who are here. We broadcast the executive power and control it. On Constitutional Day, we must make it very clear that power in the Republic of Bulgaria should return to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from BSP, DPS, ICN and ISV.]] In order to say that I have to come back, I am not the only one saying it, because I followed the entire election campaign very carefully, so that is how most Bulgarian citizens and most political entities who are now here in this Chamber feel it. There are not one and two examples. I'll give you one example. How long has the Prime Minister not been in this room and the other? Do you think that's normal? I remember another time when a prime minister, who was accused of being authoritarian, had said to everyone that a minister, who allowed himself not to respond to a MP, would not accept a MP, would not appear, would be asked to resign the minute. This is respect for the people's representation because our authority is given to us by the people and we are broadcasting the executive power. I think it should be and should be an honor for the Bulgarian Prime Minister just to be here, to hand in his resignation and proud to say: "I have done this for Bulgaria, do it for you, as well as to answer questions, because you yourself claim that there is something to say. I also think he has something to say. Why are they constantly delegated to ministers rights and so on. This respect for the Constitution is what we're talking about. We of the DPS have set ourselves this modest political task to restore parliamentaryism as the Constitution enjoins. Moreover, because there is also talk today of relations between the institutions, we strongly believe, and yesterday President Karadayi said it to you from this tribune, but I do not see anyone having understood it and heard it there is a crisis of interest in the country which is expressed precisely in the disturbed coordination and control between the institutions, in the dialogs between institutions. This is what all Bulgarian citizens see. And the Constitution dictates that there should be a dialogue between the institutions, coordination between the institutions, mutual control between the institutions. This is what constitutionalism is about today, on the day of the Constitution. At this first point, we believe that constitutionalism, parliamentaryism today is not respected once again. Don't be angry, it's the truth. We are all called here to restore the dignity of the Bulgarian Parliament, to restore dialogue between the institutions, to restore the trust of the Bulgarian citizens in the institutions. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS, ICN, ISM.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Babikan, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the manner of conduct I have, I hope, a very good request from the National Assembly as a representative of the sovereign to continue on his agenda, and not to listen to lectures from freely passing ministers in resignation. The attitude of a sanitary inspector who watches who is wearing a mask in the hall and who is not, I think he is not worthy of a Bulgarian minister. There are relevant authorities for this purpose. I think it is a bigger problem for our country which ministers wear a 24-hour mask that looks only like Boyko Borisov and do not differ from them. So I ask you to get back to the agenda and to our work, and not to deal with the loose ends of who went from the honourable MPs to the hospital to take pictures so that you could do God knows what a PR or campaign, because I will require absolutely seriously the photograph of the thousands of Bulgarians who have died and we will make exhibitions in parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from ICN, ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u134	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Just to let you know that we are on the agenda, item one of the Programme. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u135	Dear Bulgarian citizens, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The resignation of Borisov's government today is not just a formal legal act for which we have wasted enough time to argue how it is adopted. This is a logical conclusion of harmful policy in the last 11 years not only of this government, but of previous editions of the governments Borisov. This is a consistent policy that broke down statehood, killed the relations between the institutions, which led us to the last places on income, the first in corruption, the last in vaccination, the first in mortality and so on. It's just that the people wanted this resignation and this change. Again, we give a warning to you and to all of us. This resignation is just a crack in the pattern. There is much work to be done to completely remove this model from the country's governance. Today, on Constitutional Day, we must pay respect to its creators, even though it is not perfect, although it has been changed over the years, even though new changes are imminent. This Constitution laid the foundations for democratic, legal and social Bulgaria. Today more than ever, we are expected to change. If we are talking about the government of Borisov, we not only wanted this change in the last four years, but we formalized it in five votes of mistrust. Our arguments were rejected at the time, but time proved we were right. All our arguments today are clearly visible, but the bigger question is how to proceed with change. Some of the new colleagues see her through a change in the Constitution. Yeah, we're probably gonna have this debate from now on. We'll probably get to that. But before we change the Constitution, we need to implement the current one, why it says that Bulgaria is a democratic, legal and social state and a parliamentary republic. Let's be honest with ourselves and with the people who sent us here. Bulgaria is not a democratic state because one person turned it into one. Bulgaria is not the rule of law, because not the rule of law, but the backstage determines who will go to jail and who will not. Bulgaria is not social because over a million and a half Bulgarians live below the poverty line. The challenges ahead of us are great. We'll probably go through a change in the basic law. Today on Constitutional Day, we turn to you, let us, before we change it, take the first steps, bring it into action. Happy Lawyers' Day! With respect to constitutionalists! Especially to those who then, in agreement and in mind, created the current Constitution! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u137	In fact, we are yet to vote on this resignation, which some consider to be submitted. It seems that today is exactly the day they decided not to respect the law. Maybe it's part of the tradition of recent years. I'm saying these few words not for myself, not for the parliamentary group. Goons out, and not for any heroic positions. This resignation is irrevocably late. This resignation was due last year when the Bulgarian people protested. I say this because of everyone who protested on the dozens of squares of the cities of Bulgaria, on the dozens of squares of the cities abroad, where there are Bulgarians and they went out and gave their vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u138	Who did they vote for?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u139	They must have voted for you. I also say this because of those who very clearly managed to read the Report of the State Department of the United States or those who managed to trace the resolution of the European Parliament for Bulgaria. I suspect we have not received one since our entry into the European Union. A prime minister who has a connection to the sovereign, to his own people, to his closest partners in the European Union or perhaps to his strongest partner in NATO should have thought it was too long ago that it was time for him to leave. Apparently other motives kept Mr. Boyko Metodiev Borisov at this post despite everything and despite everyone. This is the man who, at the end of his first term, said that when he saw blood on the streets, he left immediately. That was at the end of the first term! I think at the time of the protests you all saw a lot of blood in the square outside the Council of Ministers. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Look at the TV footage and you'll refresh your memory. Obviously, blood wasn't the motive that could stop this man from holding his fingernails and teeth to power. Anyway, today is the day I want to say two good words to the people who fought for this resignation, and it's probably the day they waited for her. Thank you, my friends! [[Applause from ISV, ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u140	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u141	Colleagues, I would also like to congratulate all of you in this National Assembly, all lawyers and all people who in one way or another have a bearing on Bulgarian constitutionalism. I believe that today is the day when we cannot say that there are many descriptions of the crisis of the Bulgarian statehood. And indeed this resignation, which we are about to vote on, is not just a formal act, it....... should become a watershed, in that power to return to the institutions, so that the Constitution really becomes a living document, and not just a paper in which we all swear. Let's wish today a sentence I will only add to it there is a great phrase spoken by one of the fathers of constitutionalism: We have given you the Republic if you can hold it!........................... the holding of the Republic, holding this power in Bulgaria to be public and not fatherly, is what we should all do. This is the big national task. We've been given the Republic. We need to contain it. And today I want us all to wish together to hold the Republic. Thank you. [[Applause from DB, ISV, ICN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? We're closing the debate. We are going to vote on a decision adopting the resignation of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Anyone in favour, please vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u144	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u146	Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. I'm asking for the result. 156 MPs have supported the cabinet's resignation. [[The national representatives from BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................. Upon completion of the applause the MPs of GERB-SDS become and applaud.]] For Mr. Sandov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u147	I am very pleased that the just-voted resignation is causing so much happiness in the GERB group. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable viewers, who are still on screen and standing up for all this farce, honourable listeners! I took the floor to request a recess procedure and I'll tell you why?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u148	We're about to take a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u149	Okay. Let me put it this way, this is about the break. My procedure is because we have already had a debate about a submitted report relating to an item on the agenda for which I have labored to go up to the Office. No, it's not really the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan. [[Private applause from SG.]] It's a presentation. This is a presentation, however, which is 300 pages per number. And as a resolution is required by Mrs. Miteva to be able to upload this plan to the site, to try at least a small part of this plan for digital transformation to realize and save at least one tree that would cost these 300 pages multiplied by 240 for MPs. So my procedure is just to sign this resolution so that we can get through our phones to the presentation and have something to debate later. And I hope that this will also require a break, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u150	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u151	Madam President, I ask you, as the first among equals, to ask Mr. Sandov, because he wants to save trees, to open the website of "Next Generation.bg" where this plan, which he talks about, sits there for probably more than a month or two, if not more. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u152	Mr. Nenkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u153	So let's be so good and you remind him that instead of their cries for someone to send them a recovery plan, just to open a site and read it. And don't worry. Three hundred pages isn't that much to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u154	Mr. Nenkov, this is not a procedure! I give 20 minutes of rest on behalf of the Democratic Bulgaria. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u155	We're continuing the hearing. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u156	Dear Madam President, congratulations to you and your deputies and I wish you success! I heard it was about sabotage and I'm coming back from the memorial service at St. George's. In connection with the bombing 96 years ago, Sunday, I will read a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group GERB SDS. It is on the occasion of the 96th anniversary of the attack at the church. Sunday. Today is the 96th anniversary of the attack at St. George's Church. The most bloody in Bulgaria and Europe for decades, the work of the military organization of the Bulgarian Communist Party. On a great Thursday in 1925, more than 200 Bulgarians lost their lives, including women and children, and more than 500 were injured. This cruel wound in Bulgarian history will never heal. Done at the time of the funeral of General Konstantin Georgiev, killed on 14 April of the same year by other Communist activists. The main goal of the bombing is to eliminate the country's military and political elite and Tsar Boris III. Today, on this black date, we from Coalition GERB-SDS once again condemn the crimes of communism and call on all parties represented parliamentaryly in the 45th National Assembly to do the same. We have already submitted a proposal to the Sofia Municipality to build a memorial of the victims of the attack in the space in front of the church. Sunday. Generations need to know and remember. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u157	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We continue with the second item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE REVIATION OF VILLAGES AND DISTRIBUTIONS BY THE MINISTER COUNCIL, MINISTERIES, STATE AUTHORITIES, STATES AND COMPANIES WITH MORE THAN 50 OF THE WTO STATE PARTICIPATION IN THE LAST 4 YEARS. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly: 1. He set up a Temporary Committee on Revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state bodies, state enterprises and companies with more than 50 percent state participation in the last 4 years. The Temporary Commission shall verify the appropriateness and legality of: - the allocation of state budget funds by decrees or decisions of the Council of Ministers; - the implementation of the activity, including the revenues and expenses of the state companies "Automagistrali" EAD, - the activity of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. - the spending of the funds under the National Program of Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Residential Buildings, under the project "Energy renovation of Bulgarian homes", by the International Fund "Kozloduy" "non-nuclear window," by the Fund of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources "Energy Efficiency" and by the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria "EAD," by the Fund of the Funds; - the financing of measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic by means of the state budget, the amount of aid and compliance with reasonable deadlines for support for those affected by COVID-19 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; - the conclusion and implementation of concession contracts, as well as the implementation of effective control over concessionaires in the protection of the public interest; - the award, execution and control of the execution of large public contracts; - the implementation of the activities of the National Insurance Institute and the expenditure incurred at the expense of the budget of the State Social Security; revision of the National Health Insurance Fund; revision of the National Revenue Agency (NRA) and the leak of the personal data of more than 5 million Bulgarian citizens from the NRA; Silver Fund; Bulgarian Development Bank; participation of offshore companies in the absorption of public funds; pension companies and their condition; commercial attachés; Road Safety Fund of the Ministry of Interior; funds given over the years for electronic management and e-government; the provision of Bulgarian citizenship; programs for modernization of the army; renovation programmes; programmes for repair of dams; the water sector; heating companies and water companies; funds for construction and repair of roads and motorways, renewables and their property; the funds for overcoming the consequences of the COVID crisis and the reasons for the marked in the Republic of Bulgaria, the highest mortality in the EU; - the payment of additional remuneration in the administration and of remuneration for participation in boards of civil servants, including a public announcement of the persons who have authorised and received them. 2. The temporary committee shall collect information and documents for the detection of abuses or infringements of the activities of the abovementioned authorities and undertakings and shall be obliged to examine all alerts received to the Commission as well as publicly available data on infringements. 3. The Temporary Commission must examine and analyse the financial statements, bank and cash returns, expenditure and other accounting documents of the state authorities, undertakings and companies with more than 50 percent State participation on which it finds whether unregulated costs have been obtained, whether the counterclaims due and duly collected state and corporate claims under contracts, penalties and penalties have been collected. 4. The temporary committee shall draw up a report on the results of the work, findings made, detected infringements and proposals to take appropriate measures by the responsible institutions. 5. The temporary committee is set up on a parietal principle by three MPs from each parliamentary group. 6. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: The President: Vice-President: Members: 7. The temporary committee shall be set up for a period of three months. Any of the importers want a word?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u158	An importer's motives are necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u159	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The proposal of the parliamentary group is to stand up! It is for the establishment of the Committee on the Revision of Abuses and Disruptions in the spending of funds, public funds by the Council of Ministers, by ministries, by state authorities, by state enterprises and by companies with more than 50% state participation over the last four years. The request for the establishment of such a Commission is dictated by our commitment to the Bulgarian voters who want to know how the funds collected from their taxes were spent during the reign of Borisov, at least during his last term. No doubt the answer to the question: where is the money, it is not just our voters who are standing up! It concerns the voters of all political formations, which are today in the Bulgarian Parliament. This response concerns the rule of law, concerning the reputation of Bulgaria of the most corrupt country in the European Union, the resolutions of the European Parliament, the State Department for various oligarchic and other corruption dependencies of members of the Bulgarian government and the ruling class. The result of all of this is visible: power is inexplicably rich, and ordinary people are explainably poor the poorest in Europe, with the lowest wages and the lowest pensions. Therefore, the fulfillment of our goal with which you stand up! It is in the Bulgarian Parliament to remove the goons from the government of the state, it goes with showing evidence of violations and crimes committed in the diversion of public resources. All this must be proved documentaryly and shown to the Bulgarian citizens. Of course, this will be done after the work of this committee is completed, and the relevant judicial authorities. The scope of the Commission is to cover about 40 sectors with high corruption risk. These are bodies, offices, companies, these are black cases in which Borisov's government has been pouring public money over the past months, pouring a lot of public resources. Through these black boxes the money went to the friendly circle, to companies from the friendly circle, owned by oligarchs...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u160	Give me the signal!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u161	...of tennis partners, by cards, of local feudals, of persons associated with power, of persons with two-syllable nicknames. All this must be shown to the Bulgarian citizens and all who have taken and those who have given must bear their responsibility. We will show with this committee the price signature of the expensive clientele of power because the price of the clientele paid it ordinary Bulgarian citizens, ordinary people, companies and children of ordinary people. All this goes first through the illumination of the schemes and of the participants in these schemes. In each office, in each ministry, in each body, in each company with state participation the schemers are known, the schemers are known. We'll protect... [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] I have ten minutes as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u162	Why are you handing out sentences from the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u163	This isn't a trial! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u164	You have some problem with lighting up the people who drained the public resources, ma'am? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What's your problem? Do you have a problem with lighting up abuse or spending five billion at the end of last year in the black banks of power?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u165	What's with all the black cases? He's got a D.A.!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u166	I mean on behalf of Stand up! "That every Bulgarian citizen who sends a signal to the committee, which we will create in a moment, will be protected by the Bulgarian Parliament! Honest and honest civil servants are fed up with schemers, they are fed up not only with party ladybugs appointed by the government, but also with corrupt people deviating public resources! [[Noise, lines and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS. Applause from ISV and ICN.]] Secondly, the illumination of the schemes goes through a clear side. There is no greater and less evil, greater and less corruption! Every Member of Parliament, every representative of a parliamentary group must take a side on which side is the corrupt, the schemers or the honest people!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u167	Which side are you on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u168	And you must either do it voluntarily or you will do it out of fear because of the responsibility that will be borne for all who are involved in concealing the diversion of funds in recent years! Because over 200,000. people lost their jobs, lost their income, Bulgarian business lost its support!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u169	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u170	At the same time, senior government officials were giving out bonuses, money for Christmas parties! This must be shown, and this must be condemned during the plague! We'll get the names of the ones they gave and the ones they took! Thirdly, not only will the schemes be sanctified and the diversion of funds from the state treasury, but the feeling of power that there is no one to punish them must be stopped! Of course, Parliament is not a tribunal, Parliament is not intended to issue sentences. But parliament will show the schemes, show the diversion of funds, show the connected parties in power, show the truth about highways, the truth about energy companies, the truth about the state water holding company, the truth about the dam management company, where hundreds of millions of levs of Bulgarian taxpayers have sunk! It will also show the illegal distribution of funds by the Council of Ministers in five billion leva in the last months of last year! Dear colleagues, just for the week after the elections from 2 to 9 April, the state treasury has eased by 200 million. lv.! Two hundred million leva less a day! Two hundred million leva a day less than a reserve! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] An answer to these questions will soon be given by the Finance Minister. But the answer to these questions will give the persons in question to the prosecution and to the judicial authorities of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u171	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u172	We're gonna check out the big public procurement. We will check the power-related companies that received without auction and without a competition the major public procurements through the black register of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u173	Enough with the black cases! Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u174	We'll check the concessions. In addition to the concession of Sofia airport, which the colleagues from BSP insist on for Bulgaria and the other concession holders, how were they given, what fees are charged? Is it true that the fees, concession fees of the first three concessionaires are less than the profit of the Bulgarian state than all concessions put together? Is it true? There's a responsibility to be held. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It is our duty to bring out the whole truth about corrupt government over the last four years. All dirty secrets and abuses of power must be made clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u175	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u176	We call on all Bulgarian citizens who have information about corruption practices in the respective ministries to submit signals to the committee! They will be protected. The purpose of the committee is not only clean hands, the purpose of the committee is to start a clean new public environment. There is no place for dishonest representatives of power! Those who refuse to respect the rules of legality and integrity must be removed because this is not the rule of morality, it is the rule of law, the rule of law. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: Time! Time!]] Bulgarian citizens expect the truth from parliament! Bulgarian citizens expect to see which parliamentary group on which side is it on the side of the corrupt or on the side of the Bulgarian citizens?! That will soon become clear. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Statements? Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u178	Thank you, Madam President! After this pathetic political speech by colleague Manolova, let's move on a little bit to concrete work. [[.................................]] Firstly, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the establishment of this committee and will actively participate in its work. Secondly, we are proposing some editorial amendments and some fundamentals. For example, this is already a proposal: 1: "Creates a temporary audit committee, we propose to be a check for establishment, since the Bulgarian Parliament has the right to control and check, but is not an audit body to make revisions. The word is not "revision." Secondly, there are factual errors in the scope of the committee, which can have very severe consequences for the Bulgarian business climate. Specifically: I propose to drop the sentence of the Pension Companies and their state. Why? To motivate myself. Firstly, because pension companies are entirely private companies and the Bulgarian Parliament cannot deal with checking of private companies. Secondly, pension companies are owned by very large foreign investors. Let me just mention the "Vienna Insurance Group," a Belgian big group, the largest Belgian financial group, and so on and so forth. We shouldn't be giving that kind of signal to the big investors. And thirdly, but not least, the Bulgarian pension companies, in so far as they have the money of the Bulgarian workers providing persons, they are under control, they were checked twice by the Bulgarian regulator in the so-called equators, or asset assessment, and then checked according to the methodology of the European regulators, by the European regulators, and they were subjected to a stress test under conditions much more severe than the stress tests of pension companies. The results of these stress tests, i.e. from these asset checks, are known to everyone, and fortunately for us they were good. This is what the European regulator finds. So the concerns that the public resources in these companies are not regulated, not verified, are in vain. Yes, these companies are working with public resources, but they have had such a professional inspection by the European regulator, and very soon. And there is no need for the Bulgarian Parliament to commit itself to an absolutely unqualified task for it. So my second proposal is to drop pension companies and their condition. This is on page two in one of the paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u179	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Bojankov. He raised his hand first, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we will not have one generation to repair what Borisov built, not a single mandate to revise the thefts and abuses of this government. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] But that doesn't make our task any less important. Her goals are right. No doubt our constituents expect this from us. The public expectations of this committee, here I address its future leadership, will be enormous. We must bear in mind that this committee will investigate an extremely large amount of information. And here I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, because at this point, euphoria is not a good advisor. There's a risk in our quest to investigate everything, not to investigate anything at the end! The issues raised are important, and we and our colleagues have worked four years back on these issues. We will support the committee and all the questions, questions and signals on these topics, because on each of these topics we have been active, we will provide them to colleagues. I set an example with the state highways. We have warned that billions of state resources are being poured into a company with several vans, dozens of workers and several drones, and then distributed without public procurement to companies close to power. We were looking at the European Commission, the competent authorities. There was no result. Our task, of course, is to give such a judicial system to Bulgaria that the guilty are responsible, our task as a parliament is to illuminate all these processes and to show the public what Borisov has done in recent years. We will actively participate in this process. But I also call you to reason, because there are also great risks and great challenges before this committee. In this regard, we will not spread out, although hundreds of proposals can be made here, but we will focus on some key points that we think are very important. In this regard, I am making a procedural proposal to create in point. 1 new indent with the following text: "The conclusion of all transactions by enterprises and companies with more than 50% state participation of the Sofia Stock Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u181	May I have the proposal, Mr. Bojankov? Thank you. Mr. Lyuben Dilov-son.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Lyuben Dilov, second electoral district of Burgas. Most likely, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the GERB-SDS Group will support this committee. However, reading its text, the text of the draft decision on its creation and, in particular, the motives of the importers, I personally now, in a personal capacity, raise two concerns. One is that either this act that we are about to perform is done entirely with propaganda character, or it is not well thought out, because the scale of your work is such that it cannot be done within three months. That is why I am making a personal proposal, Madam President, that this committee be in constant operation. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Two. I believe, Madam President, that we need to seriously consider what the expert composition will be, which will serve this committee, because only the verification of the state-owned companies, according to my vague calculations, suggest about 1100 collaborators. There is no way, within three months, we can hear even only the managers of these companies, let alone check the signals that citizens will receive. So, if this is not a propaganda act, because my other concern is that it is such an act, a simple fact, you are creating a new Council of Ministers. Your new ministers are pulling everything out of the drawers and seeing what happened. They shout, they don't invite them to the National Assembly, they order the managers of the companies with state participation to report and then, of course, give to the prosecution, to the court. But well, Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and you all have the feeling of a deficit of parliamentaryness. Let us have a parliamentary committee, despite the old Bulgarian wisdom, that if you want something not to happen, you are creating a parliamentary committee. Let's do it, but let's think about its administrative capacity, about the time it will work for, about where it will work. Because as much as we don't want to tell each other, he's gonna have to work in that disgusting party home that I'm gonna have a little bit more talk about. Thank you very much for your attention. That is, my concrete proposal is to make the committee permanent. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u183	Mr. Dilov, this proposal can be made by April 19th in the amendment procedure. Victoria Vasileva for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 48, para. 1 of the Rules of the National Assembly I propose that we extend the meeting of the National Assembly until the agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u185	Thank you. Please vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u188	There are no abstentions, no abstentions. Vote 212 MPs: for 212, against and abstention there is no. Mr. Abrovsky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would also like to make a suggestion: 1th indent of the second indent, where part of the state-owned companies is explicitly represented, I would like to add "Irrigation systems" and the six state-owned forestry companies. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u190	Thank you. Mr. Georgi Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u191	Thank you, Madam President. And I, because I'm completely new here, wish all my fellow MPs a controversial job. I am reporting to express the position of the Democratic Bulgaria on this decision. We support the establishment of this temporary committee. Of course, I do not see any problem with it becoming permanent, which is already a matter of rules that are yet to be adopted. The second thing I want to say is that for us, the interpretation of t. 1 before the dashes is extensive, i.e. these lists are indicative and it is absolutely all businesses with more than 50% state participation, but nevertheless we also join in supplementing the list. In the second indent, we propose to add to the second indent "Terem" EAD, "Trade and Supply" EAD, "Toplofication-Sofia" through which hundreds of millions of dollars go each year, and to the eighth indent to add to the other state authorities and the Financial Supervision Commission, because it is the warden of all these questionable financial flows that the Commission will allegedly establish. God forbid we find any foul play, but unfortunately, we have doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB-SDS parliamentary group will strongly support this committee. However, I have a proposal for it to work not only for the previous four-year period, but for ten years back and I will motivate myself why. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] During that time, the so-called parties of the status quo ruled. For me, these are the system parties that have been on the field for 30 years and bear their cross, including the Union of Democratic Forces that I represent. But since we have colleagues who first enter parliament and want to start over, I propose that the period be ten years old. In this period we have three managements of Mr. Boyko Borisov. The first is ruling with the support of the Blue Coalition, that is, we have been involved in its support. The second government was supported by the Reformation bloc, where we had our ministers, including the Union of Democratic Forces had a minister. I believe that Mr. Hristo Ivanov as then Minister of Mr. Borisov is not against checking us out. We're not worried about checks. The third government was again Mr. Borisov with patriotic formations, the so-called system parties. Let it be checked and checked. Something else will be checked and the government of Mr. Plamen Oresharski, which was supported by BSP and DPS, and I am sure that they have no concerns about being checked. In this sense, let us vote on a ten-year period to verify everything that has happened in Bulgaria and to go from clean, as you suggest. Thank you. This is the first point of the four-year period to become a ten-year period. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u194	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Capon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Happy Thanksgiving to all lawyers! I want to tell Mr. Tsonev that he is absolutely right, and we accept as importers this to be an inspection. Of course, there is a line in which pension funds can be checked. And therefore I would like to make an addition to my colleague from "Democratic Bulgaria" that the Financial Supervision Commission can always be heard by the Budget Committee in the Parliament and can be checked at any time, which we have done for many years. Just to expand the scope, when we're done, I accept that 10 years is a very good offer from Mr. Hristov, but let's finish the four years first and then we'll pass the next ten. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And as for the expansion of companies, I suggest that we add: "Gazov Hub Balkan" EAD, PUDOS and more that you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u196	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u197	I absolutely agree with Mr. Dilov. We're gonna need a lot of people, we're gonna need a job, although we can see it, today on Friday we have no problem working. That's why we're here. We'll work until we're done with the agenda. So we're not worried about that. All other committees may support this committee through both the Budget and Finance Commission and the Economic Commission. And let's not forget about the parliamentary republic. We have control and verification, but there are other functions in the state and they are the ones who will do them. And that's where people work, and the administration should be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u198	Well, they're thieving, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u200	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I am empowered to say that our parliamentary group will support the proposal for a Permanent Commission. Secondly, we will also support the proposal, obviously, it will be adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to be defined as an inspection and not as a revision. Thirdly, we agree that we need to be careful about how we define the verification of pension companies. We should rather check the relations between state institutions and whether they fulfil their functions in the regulation of private pension funds and not of the funds themselves, as this is of serious importance. In addition, we propose to include two companies that are indisputable, because the first one is not a company, but the first state institution, which I do not know why it was missed and it is very important, this is the favorite of the entire Bulgarian people State Gambling Commission, which was closed by the government in the hope that the traces will be covered. But the government itself admitted that it didn't have 700 million. lv.? And our task is to see in terms of the budget and fiscal reserve, not only in terms of expenditure, but also in terms of revenue, so the State Gambling Commission, which the government itself admitted had not entered into the budget 700 million. lv. And if any of the members of these committees, from the state authorities, ministers of finance have had a good night's sleep so far, let them worry, because the Commission will require the state institutions to make a full inspection of why the Commission is closed down, where these people are at the moment, what responsibility they will bear for this 700 million. lv. And secondly, let's include the Road Infrastructure Agency, through which tens of billions of leva have passed, including the notorious tol system. We remember all colleagues from the Budget Committee how colleagues from GERB promised that they would enter 800 million each. lv. Each year from the toll system. Firstly, it is worth three times more expensive and, secondly, six times less money so far has entered the budget. So let's add these two extremely important sites to the inspection and say that yes the sites are many, there is a lot of work to be done, but it will be done by the specialized state institutions under the control of the Bulgarian Parliament and, of course, with priorities to start with the transactions that we believe have done the most damage to the budget. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u201	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Vladislav Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to add to the new second indent of the first point Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u203	It's very small to add more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u204	Are there any other people? You want the word?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u205	Yeah, by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u206	Yes, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u207	Madam President, honourable Members! In order for us to be in the spirit of new time and revolutionary mood, we will also make some proposals to supplement the list of investigations. We propose to include the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, the Institute of Inorganic Chemistry at BAS and the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine. Cheers! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u208	Can you, Mr. Bikov, make the proposals? May I have your suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u209	The others won't give, I make them verbally.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u210	Let's record them. [[The National Representative Toma Bikov submitted the proposals to the President.]] Others? Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u211	In the spirit of excitement that you have managed to bring into this dark subject, to add the Food Agency, which is also being worked on and drained. There was a red rep years ago, maybe Mr. Bikov was still at school, who wanted to take the blame with the appetizers. You've just repeated his dark experience. Congratulations, comrades from GERB! [[(Applauses from..Democratic ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u212	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u213	Dear Members of Parliament, as you have already heard, our group will support the Commission, but not only this. We will submit to the Commission the work done by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria in the previous parliament. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It is expressed in the following: To remind you. We have requested an audit of the Auto-magistrali....and Montaj....and we have repeatedly dealt with a check and we have enough information about the condition, management and management of the dams. We have repeatedly dealt with the energy efficiency of multi-family residential buildings and we have enough materials from the renovation checks. For many years, we fought for the concession at Sofia airport. And this is not all we have signaled for it the European institutions, the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and we have their analyses on these issues. Not only that, but we do have the Court of Auditors' report on the spending check of the Council of Ministers outside the national budget and the findings on whether such spending under the Public Finance Act is correct. I add 11 signals to the Prosecutor General's Office for Corruption Transactions related to those companies that appear on the list. All this we have is our work for four years. We will give it to the Commission and we will actively participate. However, we also have some considerations or motives or questions that we should discuss from now on. Dear colleagues, in order not to disappoint the Bulgarian citizens, who have long awaited this revision and justice, do not it seem a little unrealistic in three months to check four years of government and over how certain, already with the add-ons 50 huge objects and companies, and concessions, and so on. I am only warning, as the expectations are very high, as our promises are very high, not to end up with the disappointment of both this majority and the new parties and of us who have been fighting for four years. Keep in mind that this is a lot of work and serious work, so maybe turning this temporary committee into a permanent is a good solution. And the next thing I'm gonna do is propose to the decision. Dear MPs, while we are doing all this and while we are doing this for three months, the current Council of Ministers will most likely continue to govern the state with all the regulatory authorities, although they are resigned and even though it has been accepted. It's the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u214	Choose your office.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u215	Only at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of Borisov were given seven concessions for 35 years: underground wealth, construction materials, beaches. This will last for three months while we do the audit. These concessions for 35 years do you know what the fee of Bulgaria is for? One and a half million leva a year! And so, in order not to allow, driven by euphoria now, working for revision, to allow this model to continue to dig in, to steal and exist through the fabric of state institutions, companies and everything you can think of, we are putting forward a proposal in two versions of what the House has agreed, as I see that these days we are solving everything in hell. One proposal is: the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) makes a proposal in the draft decision submitted by colleagues to be added. 2 and it's a moratorium. It sounds like this, I will read it literally: Until the election of a new Council of Ministers, the National Assembly imposes a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of public municipal hospitals and the appointments in the state administration, the regulatory authorities and the enterprises with more than 50% state participation. 2 to this Decision [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] I will also give you the exact text. Just a few words about the motives. Dear colleagues, I don't know if you know this, but we come from different regions of the country and we have no way of knowing the real state of the country. Currently municipal hospitals are on the table for sale at least a few, and will finish while we check the revision for four or ten years back. Currently there are competitions in government regulators, in hospitals, in schools, in community centers, the chiefs of libraries are changing at the moment. They extend deadlines to independent regulatory authorities with a mandate, appoint new people. These people will have to give us information about the state of the companies. Do you think she'll be well-intentioned with the new guides? Do you know what's going on in the energy sector right now? Everything changes. So please consider and accept our offer. As we will launch this inspection, to impose a moratorium on this cabinet for certain transactions and spending until the election of a new Council of Ministers, whenever it is. Our second proposal is, if the House does not accept this text in this decision, we have prepared it with the necessary signatures, we bring it to the Office as it is, and we will probably look at it next week when Parliament's leadership distributes it. But our first wish is to support us now so we don't waste time. Because one week, two weeks may prove significant for our intentions to check and review the management of Borisov. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u216	May I have your offer, Mrs. Ninova?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u218	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! As it became clear, GERB-SDS will support this committee, with great joy. And I'll tell you why. Because we're actually going to find out how much work has been done in recent years. It wasn't a coincidence that we asked for this period to be 10 years. In addition to drawing a parallel of the various governments, whether it be official, whether it be regular, in the end to give an even bigger parallel of how much really useful and good things have been done for the state. And as much as you don't want to admit it, I'm sure that somewhere deep down inside you realize it. I can't wait for this committee to work. Another question is how sincere you are. Yesterday, on the first working day, some of the political groups, in fact, the political group on which there will be, or will not have a government most likely, most freely states that this cabinet, or rather, I apologise, this Parliament, will have a very short horizon of action: somewhere around a month. So how do we imagine this committee going to be three months, six months, a year, two, permanent? Actually, he's gonna come up with some kind of objective report. For me, the aim is only the following, and we have to say it to each other, to have a very precise plan in which you are moving, and it is the following: a change in the electoral rules, this committee, which is not actually intended to establish something objective................................ the colleague Bikov made these proposals, because this is an absurdity such committee, given that there are also control bodies, and not one or two, to end and play the role of a court, and to issue sentences. That's not gonna happen. GERB has always supported each such commission, which was set up and during the last parliament all BSP's proposals, which were made in this direction, for verification, for giving the Court of Auditors to certain companies, have always supported them. When you manage public companies, when you manage public finances, there must be control, whether parliamentary or not, from the point of view of all control institutions. But when you do it for another purpose, when you want to benefit from some political benefit, and, on the one hand, you have a very short world view of governance, and on the other hand, you want all these companies to be sure over 50, to establish some facts and circumstances that you will not do, and remember my word, you will not do. You just want to call some people, call the corresponding company directors. It will not last you these three months, and the information that will come to this committee, including the signals that we expect to come, will be colossal information. This is probably a job for 10 years. And at the same time, on the one hand, you want to have a very short-term act, and on the other hand, you just lie to your constituents and throw dust in their eyes and nothing more. Nothing more! A moment ago, because you had declarations about this and are concerned about the health status of the population and the development of the pandemic at the moment, you instead of your first bills, instead of the first decisions you submitted here to be exactly what better and better you would give to the Bulgarian society as a solution to these health issues, to the economy, to finance, if you will, to the health and mental condition of the people, and you are dealing with doing a show, you are dealing with humiliating. Okay, do it. It's up to you. You have your majority, but people will appreciate it. Instead of you here today to say: look what, we do government, we have a-a team, we better than GERB can do first, second, third, fourth. Get out there and say it. Stop hiding, stop hiding. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u220	Line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I congratulate you on your choice! Happy Thanksgiving to all lawyers! My line consists of this. Of course, it is aimed at Mr. Nenkov and what he said, but also in general at the group of GERB-SDZ in this Parliament and the coalition of GERB in the last. What is it, Mr. Nenkov? You said you were happy that such a committee is being set up and that you would support it. Support her, work seriously inside, and if you work seriously, you'll find the violations, that's clear. But the other thing that is clear, only that you with existing phrases are trying to fool the entire hall, but in fact the audience, the society in Bulgaria, is that you accepted proposals, but not all of them from the only opposition in the last parliament BSP, to create temporary committees, that you accepted it, but not all of the proposals, but you still accepted, only that, Mr. Nenkov, you put the chairmen of these committees your people. And how will your people examine your authority? And that was your practice, and you know it. And to finish the example, I'll tell you in my line. Mr. Nenkov, I was part of such a temporary committee. Mr. Bikov was chairman sitting next to you. This Temporary Commission was about establishing the truths and facts, ladies and gentlemen, about stopping the signal of the Programme "Model" of the Bulgarian National Radio. And you know, then the Chair of the Temporary Commission, who is also a member of the Committee on Culture and Media in the last Parliament, wrote These are their temporary committees, silence on the air! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u222	Get it over with, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u223	I'm done, Madam President, one sentence. Very soon your group will be half in number, because the other half will vote only on floor property. [[(Noise and applause from the BSP for ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u224	Hole, Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u225	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Chenchev, with the weight this tribune gives you when you go out to talk, I will state the following. What you said, first of all, that's not true. Many committees that were set up during the time when GERB had a ruling majority were on a parietal principle, just so the ruling party would not prevail. I'll make my reference, and I'll give it to you specifically to let you know. As for the other one, the burden of this tribune. I've been a parliamentarian for not a few years now, and I believe in this institution. I said before and now I will repeat: Parliament must undoubtedly play this role. He has to control, he has to do checks, but he can't be a court of law. In the very title of the decision that has been tabled, a verdict cannot be pronounced. What if there are no known violations? How can you tell in advance from this tribune that there is, in a way, a finding of the violations? There must be violations. There must be violations! Therefore, there are also divisions of the authorities, and by swearing by the Constitution we still have to respect both the Constitution and the laws, which are the regulation of this division. And I repeat, I believe that every single governor who has the public resources must be put under control and who has not done his job must be held accountable. There's nothing wrong with that. This is the rule of law. But without trial and judgment, it's no good. It's in the square. This is Parliament. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u226	Thank you. Personal explanation, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u227	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm sorry we have to deal with this issue today, but Mr. Chenchev seems to have forgotten the report of this temporary committee at all. Mr. Alexander Simov from BSP was Vice-President of this Commission. The report made it very clear that the radio signal had been illegally stopped. In this case there was also a prosecutor's inquiry and ultimately the prosecution and the court are the ones who should be dealing with the judicial part of this case. I would like to emphasise that in the Commission, this report was adopted with almost complete unanimity, and even BSP Members, who were obliged to oppose in some way, voted with abstention. So Mr. Chenchev either doesn't remember or lies. I quoted Nicholas Gomez Davila in the previous parliament, and I will quote him in this Parliament, because we are at the beginning: Socialism does not always kill, but always lies. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u228	Mr. Chenchev, please! There's no such procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u229	I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u230	Mr. Chenchev, please! There's no such procedure. Get out of the stands!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u231	One second.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u232	Please, Mr. Chenchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u233	And you get on it because you've been elected vice-president and have the courage to stand upstairs. [[Noise and lines.]] You guys get in, okay? [[Noise and lines.]] It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u234	She can't, because what's she on?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u235	First you mentioned me, second you lied.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u236	But it's a personal explanation of a personal explanation. You can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u237	He mentioned me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u238	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u239	Mr. Tsonev, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u240	Madam President, honourable Members! Since we still have a lot of points, I suggest, if time is running out, that we focus on ending debates and voting, and there are a lot of proposals - editorial, supplements and so on and so forth. [[Applause]] That's my first offer. And my second proposal is regarding Mrs. Ninova's proposal for the moratorium. Our group will probably support this moratorium, but our proposal is as follows: the second option for Mrs. Nino to submit it so that we can editorially consider it. There's a lot of stuff about the office, isn't it? Does it apply to which procedures have been initiated, how far they've been brought, for which and so on... So we need to see what this is about and vote it out next week. My suggestion is that we focus on the second option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u241	Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u242	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I am referring on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria on the proposal made by Mrs. Ninova in relation to the introduction of a moratorium on the actions of the resigning government. Our position is that if a moratorium is being discussed, it should be discussed with a separate solution, as there are extremely important issues, including constitutional issues that can be raised, and the current practice of Parliament is always when it has imposed moratoriums, that this has happened with separate decisions, a large part of which is disputed before the Constitutional Court. After all, the subject matter of the decision that we are going to vote in a moment is to set up a Temporary Commission with its specific powers, not to impose a moratorium. So our proposal is in that sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u243	Thank you. Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u244	There were a series of proposals, colleagues who were to supplement the list as listed in the dashes of point one and yet we are not comprehensive. On the other hand, there was a legitimately raised question that this is such a large volume of work that will not last many months and the work of this committee until the end of a full parliament. It is clear that the Commission will start if we create it with some priorities, it will work as far as it can. I suggest we go out with a slight editorial maneuver from the situation that my colleague Ganev suggested. The temporary committee must check the appropriateness and legality by adding: such as:... They follow their dashes, there is no need for any supplement dash by dash, because we will still get to the Trem, to the Sopot, whatever you want. And that actually solves the issue with all the additional proposals that may be new to the Commission itself, in view of the application materials that will take place there. And let us remain to vote if you accept this editorial amendment, only: the issue of pension companies and their possible withdrawal from the eighth indent, the question that asked colleague Dilov, the Commission to be permanent or temporary, the question that Hristov asked, to examine 10 years back or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva. Any other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. We start from the proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev in the name of the decision and in point one the word "Revision" to be replaced by a check. Please vote. Please help the secretaries determine the result. For. 193, there is no objection, abstention. 1. Mr. Tsonev's second proposal is to delete the words the pension companies and their state in the eighth indent. Please vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u247	Yeah. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u249	Yeah. There is no opposition to and abstention for " 204." We move on to Mr. Bojankov's third proposal to finally add to point one the conclusion of all business transactions and others with over 50 percent state participation of the Sofia Stock Exchange. Please vote. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u251	Yeah. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u253	Yeah. There is no opposition to and abstention for " 205." We move on to Georgi Ganev's next proposal in point one, in the third indent to add: Please vote. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u255	Yeah. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u257	Two for. There is no opposition to and abstention for " 204." Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u258	Madam President, colleagues! I apologize for taking the floor again, but to make the job easier. What Mrs. Doncheva suggested, let's put him to the vote now, though... Well, it involves everyone else. One text, thanks to which all suggestions for inclusion...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u259	But they're made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u260	We don't have to vote them one by one. So my proposal to put to the vote now Mrs. Doncheva's proposal and if it is accepted, the other proposals become meaningless because they automatically fall within the scope of the text she proposed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u261	Okay, we move on to Mrs. Tatiana Doncheva's proposal in point one of the text before the first indent, the word Please vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u263	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u265	Yeah. For the 200, against and abstention there is no. We are moving on to Mr. Rumen Hristov's proposal to replace the figure anywhere. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u266	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u267	Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u268	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u269	For " 128," against "18," abstentions "54." [[Applause GERB-SDS.]] The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u270	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u271	That's how they give it to me, even though they come out a lot, I think. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] For " 128," against "18," abstentions "54." In groups. About: GERB-SDS Cons: There is such a people............................................. that there is such a people............ stand up! Out of the Abstention: There is such a people... 41.. Stand up! Goons out!............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Bikov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u272	Madam President, a procedural proposal to re-vote, because perhaps some of our colleagues have not understood what we are voting on. We suggest not to check the four years, but to check the last ten years. That's what we're offering! We want to make sure that all the colleagues here have consciously voted for the fact that only the last four years seem questionable to them. The others seemed to have been fine, and now they've raised doubts only about the last term. That's what we want to find out with a new re-vote and with this motivation. Otherwise, we are prepared to be checked in the last ten years absolutely anything you say. We're ready to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u273	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. It's a re-vote. I'd like the secretaries to assist the Quaestors. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u274	Abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u275	Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u276	(ITN, via Internet platform for video conference): Abstained.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u277	For "120," against "25," abstentioned "60." Sustained. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] By groups: GERB-SDS? 67... [[(Noise and lines from GERB: Wait, wait... We are all here. We're not 67. If accepted, it does not matter.]] There is such a people....6 against........................................................................................................................ Goons out!.. 10 against.. Democratic Bulgaria.... 9 Abstentions: There is such a people....................... stand up! Gourmets out! For the procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u278	Lachezar Ivanov, 25th Mir. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the new President of the National Assembly and all the Members who are newly elected here. Congratulations! I believe that all of us here have sworn to serve in the name of our Republic of Bulgaria. I appeal to the President of the National Assembly, whom I have the honour of knowing for a long time as a huge professional. Madam President, I appeal to you in your mandates under the Rules of Procedure and Constitution, if we are to work, it is to put into this Chamber the electronic system. Everyone here on the left and right pleaded before the election for a machine vote, for an electronic vote, and we returned to the Roman Parliament by raising our hands up and down. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I think that when we are making a deal here at the moment, we want to start fresh, we want to make a revision of the state, we cannot make such important decisions by counting from... once again, respect for the Quaestors, respect for all who count, but I would like to say that I will not quote, I have seen colleagues voting twice, once against the Quaestors, once abstentioned. That brings... [[Noise and lines to the right.]] I can quote. If you want, I can quote, but I won't do it out of respect for my colleague. We have to respect each other here. Then I would like to address all of you who want this country to start fresh, you want to make a revision. I appeal to my colleagues most benevolently, with the best thoughts we want to start fresh, what is the problem of making an example revision of the 10-year governance? And here all who plead from the street, from the squares and so on, how much they care about having clean relations, to have a revision. Great, but let's have this audit, let's leave this bitterness outside. We're here to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u279	What is the procedure for the electronic system?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u280	I am now addressing you, as I do not yet know the intentions of my colleagues here, and I do not know, from the left and the right, that is to say, all those who think you are managing, to make a decision if we are to work in this Parliament on all violations of health instructions, to work 200 people at 40 centimeters away, if this decision is taken, okay, let us take this decision and put the electronic system in place. Because I, if I ask who voted how, because everyone here represents their electoral area, everyone here represents the people who voted for it, including by name, to see who has indicated their vote, in this case I am talking specifically about the revision. [[Applause from DPS.]] Secondly, I would like to return to your leadership because many people in the previous parliament who were here said that there was no transparency. Here, we want transparency to have, we want everyone to vote with their name. That is why I am addressing you, to the management, I want this guide to make a decision if we will continue to work here, in this room to install the screens accordingly, each of us to know how we voted. Because when we ask for a printout...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u282	I'm graduating. [[Noise and lines.]] Give me a chance to graduate. Whenever I want... [[Reply from DPS.]] That's not a line, mate, that's not a line. I want to know who voted how, because our votes do not remain here today, in the Chamber, they remain in the history of the Republic of Bulgaria. I want to know how each of us voted here so he could answer with his face and answer with his name. [[speaking indistinctly]] Thank you. I hope that my appeal to you will be fulfilled. [[GERB-SDS.]] If there is a solution, let it be announced by the high tribune you are occupying. [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u283	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. With regard to the proposal made by Mr. Ivanov, I can only explain the actions taken, the system will be installed by Sunday, i.e. on the 21st, on Wednesday, we will work with a system and monitors. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS and screams:]] We're moving on. Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u284	Madam President, I'm addressing you with all due respect. As the first among equals, I ask you, as a person who has been in this Parliament for four years now, get fully involved in this role. Several times today you announce a halt to the debate, then a word is given, here you entered, as Mr Babikan, a running minister, to vilify us and leave without hearing what we think. Now, too, we're doing re-voting, we're going out to talk here about the electronic system for 15 minutes. That's not how we're gonna end up. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I remember this poem by Mayakovski "The people who..."..now, if we're going to sit here until eight o'clock listening to the outpourings of this one and that one, instead of doing our job, I beg you very much... [[(Reply from GERB: This is Parliament! If you want to go, go!]] You are the President of the National Assembly, such swaying on the agenda I am passing the questions, I am giving the floor, I am turning back, I am going forward, here Hristov brought you a watch, to make fun of the entire National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It's a mockery, Mr. Christov, it's a mockery! She answered you once that time is measured. [[Calls MP Rumen Hristov.]] Please, it's a mockery! And let's stop making fun of you, Madam President, and get on with your part, if you're tired, someone will replace you, but we can't go on like this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u285	The next offer belongs to Mr. Lyuben Dilov. I think I answered him that the Standing Committees are in the Rules of Procedure, so he can make his proposal there, in the Rules. We're moving on. A proposal from Mrs. Ninova for a new point two, which reads: "Until the election of the new Council of Ministers, a moratorium is imposed on the granting of concessions, the sale of state and municipal hospitals and the appointments to the state administration, the regulatory authorities and the enterprises with more than 50 per cent state participation. The remaining points shall be renumbered. Please vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u286	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u287	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u288	That's against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u289	I'm asking for the result. [[Loud noise and lines.]] ............................................................................................................ It doesn't work. [[Lowered noise and lines: not passing!]] Mrs. Ninova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u290	There's no quorum. [[(Lowered noise and lines: How can there be no quorum? You can't count.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u291	How can there not be a quorum?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u292	Dear Bulgarian citizens, it's started! The euphoria of yesterday's situation for a large anti-GERB front should begin to subside clearly. Did you see what just happened? There is such a people, a Democratic Bulgaria and a stand up! They didn't want a revision for the last ten years. [[(Noise and lines. Commendations: "Bravo!" (Applause by GERB-SDS.)]] You have nothing to be happy about, you're going. You're leaving! [[Private applause from left and right.]] It's the other one, the big one, the principle one. The same parties did not support BSP's proposal for a moratorium on the actions of Borisov's government. [[Loud noise.]] Why, guys?! [[Loud noise.]] Our dear Bulgarian citizens, the BSP's work, as I said yesterday, proved the easiest and most clear. Because in politics, the most important thing is to be principled and consistent and what you said before the elections, to perform it after the elections, and whatever you say in the opposition, to perform it as a governor. [[Applause from left and right. Loud noise.]] We, BSP, have been auditioning this department for his last 11 years. And we are about this now and immediately to have Borisov banned from selling state and municipal hospitals and to distribute concessions per piece. We were against this before April 4th and today we are against it. This is a real party that works in politics based on principles, honesty and transparency! I'm asking for a re-vote. [[Strong noise, shouts and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u293	Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u294	Back-up procedural proposal. First of all, what you said, Mrs. Ninova, there's no connection at all. [[Loud noise and lines.]] There's a procedural proposal to re-vote! I'm making you a counterproposal. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u295	Mrs. Doncheva, we're in re-election procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u296	We can't have the whole meeting... [[Loud noise and lines.]] There are procedural issues that are not procedural. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u297	But hers is the same. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, what is your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u298	Madam President, I have requested a procedure in the manner in which it is conducted in relation to the proposal for a re-voting. When a proposal for a re-voting is made, it does not say which majorities and who against what has voted, first, but why the proposal for a re-voting is asked. Second, absolute untruths were told. From this tribune, we have said that we support the proposal for a moratorium, but not now, and now, now and immediately, we can only go home. And I'll tell you why, because it's absolutely impractical, and I tried to explain it, and my colleagues supported it. We're all on the moratorium, but now and now, now and now, not here. Now and immediately, if you want, you will make precise proposals because in proposals for establishing a temporary commission to insert as a point the Moratorium is a contribution to the Bulgarian law and legislation. They'll make their proposals, as they said modestly the first time. [[Noise.]] We're offering a second option if you don't approve of this. The second option will be next week. Okay, we're all on the second option. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u299	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Please re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Loud noise and lines.]] We're in re-voting procedure now. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, yes, it needs to be reworded right away, Mr. Popov, please. Please reschedule. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Anyone in favour, please vote. They voted for.. 105 MPs, against none, abstentioned 107. The offer is not accepted. In groups. About GERB "65," "BSP for Bulgaria" "40," no, abstentions... [[Noise and lines.]] They're not added, they're not that result. Abstention: ISN 48, Stand up! Goons out! [[Noise and lines.]] You can't hear anything. [[Loud noise.]] So 109 abstentions. [[Heckling]] How much? Detained from the DPS "22." [[Replys: "Can I do it again?"]] There is such a people, stand up! Goons out! ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. We're moving on. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u300	Madam President, honourable Members! Personally, I was surprised by the way you conducted before the vote because you allowed my esteemed Mr. Tsonev to speak in the manner of conduct, but you did not allow the BSP, the opposition. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Because obviously we will be opposed to a new majority, which is obvious. I want them to come out of this stands and tell themselves who's running the concession right now in the Council of Ministers! [[(Loud noise, applause, lines, chanting:) Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! (GERB-SDS.)]] Because the GERB know. [[Applause and whistles by GERB-BS.]] And they'll tell you who's running the concession and waiting for the next few days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u301	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u302	Say, who's waiting to buy a hospital?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u303	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u304	Who's waiting to rob state property? Because obviously... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u305	Mr. Ivanov, circumstances outside the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u306	...in this House, this new majority, which is trying to say that it is anti-GERB, there are those who wait, and come to say here, from this tribune, because they will tell you in the eyes and you will become for shame! Thank you. [[(Early applause, whistling and shouting from GERB-SDS: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u307	We're moving on. [[The National Representative Atanas Slavov approaches the stands and wants the floor.]] For what procedure.. in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u308	No. [[Heckling]] It's not accepted all of it yet. We're in a voting procedure right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u309	Moving on, there are more suggestions. Proposals have been made by Rumen Gechev, Plamen Abrovski, Vladislav Panev, Georgi Ganev, Toma Bikov regarding the already adopted proposal for the indicative enumeration. Do you insist on voting or are you withdrawing them?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u310	We withdraw them, we withdraw them!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u311	Okay. In that case, we've run out of suggestions. We are going to vote on the whole decision together with the proposals already adopted. Please vote! Colleagues online? Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u313	For.. 214 Members of the National Assembly. The decision's been made. We are now moving on to the choice of leadership and composition of the Commission. Can I ask for proposals from the parliamentary groups from GERB-SDS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u314	On behalf of the Coalition GERB-SDS we propose in the newly formed committee members to be Dani Kanazireva, Manoil Manev and Toma Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u315	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u316	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Georgi Georgiev, Mr. Ivan Hinovski and Mr. Plamen Abrovski, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the I use the occasion that I am on the stand to propose Mr. Georgi Georgiev as Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u317	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u318	The proposals are for Rumen Gechev, Yavor Bojankov and Plamen Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u319	Thank you. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, as members of the Committee of the Committee of the European Union, I propose the MPs Yordan Tsonev, Sergey Kichikov and Adlen Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u321	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u322	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" as members of the Commission, I propose Ivan Dimitrov, Borislav Sandov and Kaloyan Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u323	Thank you. And stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u324	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, as has become clear in a term of office, there is one person in this House who has the capacity to handle this task, so I propose Maya Manolova as chairman of the committee [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] , Dragomir Osavkov and Andrei Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u325	Thank you. Please vote... [[Reply of MP Desislava Atanasova.]] For the procedure Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u326	Thank you. Madam President, my procedure is for a split vote on the composition of the committee and of the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u327	Please vote on the proposal for Commission President Maya Manolova. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u328	First the composition, first the composition!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u329	Okay, okay! Vote for the proposed composition of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u332	Against? There's one against it. Abstained? I won't. It's 217. I ask for a vote on the proposal made for Maya Manolova as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u335	Against? I won't. Abstention? One. For.. 147, 1.. abstention. Thus, the composition of the committee has been completed, the decision has been adopted and the point.................................................................................................... [[Replys from the right.]] We voted on it, there was no objection to it, and Anbloc was voted on. We continue with the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN RESPONSE ON: 1. The measures and actions foreseen in the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan under the Reconciliation and Sustainability Méchanism and Sustainability Plan established by REGULATION (EU) 2021/241; 2. THE PRESENTATION OF THE PLAN ON T. 1 OF THE EUROPEAN ASSESSMENT COMMISSION, At a period of 30 April 2021; 3. The consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-deprecating of the T Plan. 1 STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE (S) 2 AND THE WINNING OF FULL RESPONSIBILITY. There was a letter from Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev that the Prime Minister is on leave from 16 April 2021. Does the importer want the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u336	And the weather, the weather?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u337	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Expectedly Borisov the fugitive prime minister, the fugitive general, for the third time since the beginning of parliament, fled to appear before the MPs: yesterday when the 45th National Assembly took an oath, then, after submitting a request for a hearing to report on the government's readiness under the Recovery and Sustainability Plan, and today when the resignation of his cabinet was discussed. Clearly, we all saw him humiliate the 44th parliament for four years...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u338	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u339	...and the leadership of the 44th Parliament, how you humiliated him and how you bullied him! But now there is a new parliament and a new leadership that has the ambition to restore the dignity of parliament and one of the steps of returning the dignity of parliament will be the bringing of Prime Minister Borisov here, before the MPs. [[Shouts from GERB-SDS: Single applause from ISV.]] The last person who has the right to resent is Ms. Karayancheva, who was actively involved in the disgrace of the 44th National Assembly. Shame on you and silence! [[(Applause on the right and banging on the banks and shouting from GERB-SDS:]] Shut up! Because you allowed Borisov four years to mess with parliament! [[blowing noise, banging on banks and yelling from GERB-SDS, clapping on the right]] I propose a draft decision I have submitted to the National Assembly, but since...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u340	That's not gonna happen!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u341	But since Borisov took a leave today, that is, we have a prime minister in resignation and a prime minister in leave at the same time, who was chasing European leaders 200 km away, is now running 200 km away from the Bulgarian parliament. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Tomorrow he will run 200 km from the Bulgarian people! I propose the following decision to be voted on by the National Assembly, which I have tabled in the Ministry, but which I will present to the Members of the National Assembly: ? RESPONSIBILITY? requiring Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov to present the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability to the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov to present the measures and actions provided for in the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism established by Regulation of the European Union;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u342	There's no such solution!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u343	"2." The readiness of the government.................. the readiness of the
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u344	What's that? It's a new proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u345	"2." The government's readiness to present the Plan under point 1. 1 of the European Commission for assessment by 30 April 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u346	There's no such solution!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u347	"3." The consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria of the failure to present the Plane........................................................................................ [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] ..for recovery and sustainability and taking responsibility. These are the questions about the hearing Borisov escaped from. [[(Strong noise and shouts from GERB-SDS: There is no such solution! There is no such solution!]] I propose that the National Assembly and, secondly, the reporting of Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov should be included as the first item of the National Assembly's Programme for Tuesday, 20 April 2021. [[Applause on the right. Loud noise and lines by GERB-SDS.]] Yes, and because it is a National Assembly, the acts of the National Assembly are mandatory for the Prime Minister! I propose that the National Assembly decide to be obliged Borisov to appear here! On Tuesday, 9:00 p.m. and report on the government's readiness for the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. There is a new parliament and a new leadership.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u348	There are no new rules! There are no new rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u349	The Gavra with Parliament will stop and you will not protect Borisov! He's gonna show up here! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u350	It should be by Wednesday sooner. [[Definitions in the Presidency.]] In case there is no meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesday, Borisov will be called to report to parliament on Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u351	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u352	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u353	Procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u354	Two!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u355	[[(Aside from the microphones: Here, this is the decision we voted on!]] Madam President, honourable Members! I believe that, until the creation of a new rule of the 45th National Assembly, we are obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure to date. An official proposal has been submitted, which has been signed. I therefore believe that what has been read here, firstly, is an absolute violation of the Rules of Procedure. Second thing I'd like to point out. I appeal to all my colleagues here: you cannot, with such malice, with such a gall of this high tribune, speak of a prime minister. This is the embodiment of the government's leadership. I appeal to you, Madam President, which you well know of the Constitution: this tribune of Prime Minister or Member of the National Assembly cannot offend with any epithets. What's more, I'm addressing you, ma'am, I don't want to quote your words about how many years ago you swore. You have sworn in the name of your health here I will stop to spare the words, and I ask you: do not use such insulting words, with such gall, with such vengeance. Believe me, anyone who harbors such malice, gall and vengeance, do you know what happens in the end? I am a doctor and I will tell you: this will lead to a new disease. I'm not saying anything else, but I want to turn around: you can't work in this Parliament in a way... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, ISN and ISM.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u356	Mr. Ivanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u357	Yeah. I also ask you, Madam President, to enter into your duties and, when the Rules are violated, to take the floor away from this tribune. And I'm gonna graduate. Since I believe that you have given the pre-speaker an opportunity here to insult the entire Council of Ministers and therefore our Prime Minister, in addition to quoting people who are lawyers here and claiming to be a high legal culture, that when a prime minister is resigned, under a Constitution, it means, for example, when he is in his action, he can be called here to request his resignation, but when he is resigned, I see no way and form that has been cited here. So let's not change and not make up any new laws. Create them, make new rules, and then we will comply with the right order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u358	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u359	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. It seems to me, Madam President, that yesterday all those who elected you had the clear awareness that you would handle the situation in plenary and the application of the Rules of Procedure as it is. I see, Madam President, that for hours now, the Rules are clearly being violated even at the moment. [[Noise and lines from ISV and ICN standing standing next to the banks.]] In case of disorder, you should ask the MPs to take their seats. I know you've been here for two days, colleagues, but we're not in the square in front of the Council of Ministers or the entire Council of Ministers with fish and gallows and all kinds of things. [[Noise and lines from ISV and ICN.]] We are in Parliament, which operates under the rules and regulations and, ladies and gentlemen, these rules are respected, so you took an oath yesterday. If today is already forgotten by all of you who show total disrespect not only to the rules, but also to the personalities, no matter who they are and no matter what positions they are in, then I insist, Madam President, that you interfere in any case with an insult to a Member of the National Assembly or a Member of the Council of Ministers in resignation and put order in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause and banging on the banks from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u360	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u361	Madam President, honourable Members! When you can't tell what you're for, you unite in different ways against who you are. From yesterday, from this tribune we have not heard what we will do with healthcare or what we will do with economics, some want majority elections, others do not want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u362	Ms. Karayancheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u363	Dear friends! You have united around a common thesis: to all hate Tsveta Karayancheva. [[Laughter and lines from ISV and ICN.]] However, I will tell you something: hatred is not a good basis for building an agreement and political energy...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u364	Ms. Karayancheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u365	...extended only to hatred, is lost energy. People didn't send you here to do circuses, they sent you to work. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u366	And you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u367	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u368	What procedure are we in, Mr. Slavov? Do you want to make a statement on the point?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u369	Yeah, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u371	Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! We just heard from the respected Mr. Ivanov that the moment the Prime Minister resigned may not even answer the questions from the plenary. He may not appear in plenary as he has done so far, but for a greater reason. [[Reply from GERB-SDS.]] On the contrary, that was exactly the point. I, as a lawyer on Constitutional Day and the lawyer, must very clearly say that the Prime Minister is obliged to always appear in the National Assembly when requested. Whether he's resigned, whether he's sick or not, whether he's planning to go to Barcelona or not. [[Applause from DB, ICN and ISV]] The Prime Minister must always appear in the National Assembly. Parliamentism is not suspended when the government is resigned. We can, at any given time, as MPs, demand that every minister, including the Prime Minister, appear in plenary, and he is obliged by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure to appear. In other parliaments, I must say, there are sanctions, economic sanctions, fines for so-called contempt of parliament. This may be a good idea to put in the new Rules of Procedure a fine for ministers, prime ministers, government officials who refuse to appear in parliament and block parliamentary control. [[Applause from DB, ICN and ISV]] Thank you. [[(Applause from DB, ICN and ISM, lines: "We will support you! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u372	Thank you. To speak, Philip Stanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u373	Ladies and gentlemen! Because I see that the degree of emotions has risen too much, this is indeed at many points in every profession, including in this extremely responsible and binding profession of the parliamentarians, is not a good idea. Nerves are never a good advisor. Even less good advisor are the nerves when they pass into curses. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov, please do not curse from the stands of the National Assembly Mrs. Manolova. You're a gentleman, you're an intelligent man. It's no coincidence you're wearing the nickname "The Brain," please! [[Laughter and applause from DB, ICN and ISV.]] Behave yourself. [[Applause from DB, ICN and ISV.]] I want to restore the good mood to all of you so that we can get back to being practical and work properly. I would like to announce to you that today I have opened a new holiday, except for Lawyer's Day and the Constitution. This is the wonderful new celebration of the courage of the Bulgarian Prime Minister. The man who played excellent football almost won the tennis world legend Boris Becker, the man who was actually Bulgaria's pride in terms of his muscle and journalists wanted to touch him on the muscles. [[noise and applause from DB, ICN and ISV]] This guy... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I don't understand why you resent me. I compliment the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister today proved once again that he is a brave man, he really proved it. I suggest not to be angry, not to be offended, not to say anything wrong about your prime minister resigning. This Prime Minister is a brave man and he proved it today. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And actually, for the finale, because I can see that instead of calming you down, I got you excited. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] I want to tell you with a wide smile from here: today it turns out that the Clear Tiger is just a cowardly rabbit from Bankya. [[(Applause from ICN, ISV. Screams by GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u374	Would you like a statement? Mr. Tosko Yordanov, take your seat. Mr. Ivanov, I'm really asking for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u375	Yes, of course, by the rules, I have the right to a personal explanation. First of all, if I haven't been properly understood, I apologize to Mrs. Maya Manolova, whom we have known for more than 16 years, and what I have said has obviously been misunderstood. I think she understood me, but I'll say it again: when a person holds grudge, aggression, it leads to illness. I didn't try to... [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, I thank my previous colleague and it is no coincidence that people have appreciated me, and that is why I have a nickname for being smart. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] For example, I can quote other beautiful words like nicknames, but unfortunately, they're not facial, and that's why I won't say them. So, I turn to you: I see that emotion grows, I see that everyone here is so nervous. You asked for the resignation. You voted for the resignation. And now I see no problem...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u376	Mr. Ivanov, you deviate, you make a remark to your colleagues and at the same time you violate the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u377	Thank you, if I overreacted, I apologize. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u378	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u379	Madam President, honourable Members, yesterday you were elected by an enviable majority, which implies your high legitimacy. Indeed, what we see at the right end of the room does not imply the order this House deserves. First, I ask you to bring order to the Chamber. Secondly, on several occasions from this platform, you have admitted an extremely sharp and bordering cynical language, which, in principle, in the current Rules of Parliament, is being punished. I am extremely asking, before adopting the rules, which seem to suggest that the new majority in this way will introduce the cynicisms, insults, hatred and gall, as some Members have already mentioned, but before that, apply the one which the previous majority used to hold under democratic principles. Unfortunately, from this tribune today we saw Bulgarian democracy die. Here we have seen colleagues talking about forced force, bringing, taking, arresting, and I don't know what else, but we still live in the rule of law. Obviously, there are colleagues who are trying to destroy this democratic order. For now, I ask you to be his steward and guardian at least as the previous majority bequeaths it to you, and then you can do whatever you want. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u380	Mr. Yordanov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u381	Before I start, I just want to ask this middle part of the room, if you can listen before you bang. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: "Who are you? "]] Currently here should be Prime Minister Borisov, who is on leave. My name is Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov, head writer of the Slavi Show. I have a huge participation to feel the way you feel, knowing who I am because yesterday Mrs. Atanasova said the show is over. So be it. Here I hear words about how you shouldn't speak with hate language or not make qualifications, and so before you move, I will quote the words of the person standing among you. Those are his words, so listen to him and then tap and whatever you want The second is no less harmful than the first. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] This man so believed that he had forgotten who he was and where he came from. [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]] What's worse is that we seem to forget and accept his presence at the peaks of power as normal and very often we don't even realize how far we've come. In a normal situation, such a person would not happen as mayor of Bankya, let alone as prime minister. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] I would gladly pay my fine for what I will say or get a remark: the coward Borisov today did not come again! The driver Borisov today did not come again, Jipko Bibitkov today did not come to parliament again! [[Applause from ICN and ISV.]] [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]] It's wonderful that he's your leader! Thank you for this pleasure. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u382	Ms. Karayancheva in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u383	Colleagues, let's read what's on the agenda. 113. On page 1, page 1, Article 64 is replaced by the following: The procedure is as follows: five minutes of hearing from the proposer. Mrs. Maya Manolova, we listened to her. We expect the hearing person in the face of Mr. Tomislav Donchev to be given a ten-minute exhibition, after which each parliamentary group is entitled to two questions, and finally five minutes to summarize. Madam President, I understand that you are just beginning to work with the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to comply with art. 113 as written in the Rules of Procedure and as requested by Mrs Manolova, the Prime Minister's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u384	Ms. Karayancheva, in this case we are not in the procedure of art. 113, as the point is a hearing of the Prime Minister. I read correctly that the Prime Minister is on leave according to a letter from the Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Maya Manolova took the floor to propose a draft decision by which the Parliament will oblige the Prime Minister to be in the National Assembly on 21 April, that is to say, we are not going to any hearing procedure at all, Ms. Karayancheva. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We are not in a hearing procedure at all! The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u385	Madam President, I understand that we are not in a hearing procedure, and we are suddenly in a draft decision procedure that has not been voted on as inclusion on the agenda. How did the transition from one item that is not on the agenda happen and you are giving speeches on a point that has not been voted on by the House to be on the agenda? Second, according to art. 89: "Projects of decisions, declaration and addresses shall be submitted when the draft decisions on procedural, organisational and technical matters are not allocated to the Standing Committees unless the President of the National Assembly decides otherwise. The draft decisions shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly. And I have one question for you: who is the President of the National Assembly, you or Maya Manolova?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u386	Mr. Bikov, personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u387	Dear Madam President, a personal explanation. First of all, I am glad that Mr. Yordanov was allowed to speak today and was removed from the ban. If we read who wrote what and said what we all wrote, we wrote a lot of things, and you as a screenwriter on one of the popular shows in Bulgaria have written a lot of things. You've also written a lot of statuses for your Facebook leader. One of them claims, for example, that there is no outbreak of coronavirus in Bulgaria and in the world at all. That was only a year ago, and we haven't forgotten it. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It's within the limits of the lacards that you're used to producing per kilogram, but I'll tell you something, however, that's not cardia. Literally a few days ago, just a few weeks ago, your party and your leader claimed that your only cause was to introduce majority elections in two rounds, and today that was not the case?! Well, you lied, you guys, and you lied politically! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Your party has gathered and misled 500 000 Bulgarian citizens with this thesis. We are telling you today that we are not only ready to support you, we are ready to work, we are ready to import, and we will bring it in next week...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u388	That's not a personal explanation, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u389	...and we'll see who's lying because it's about who wrote what. You have written a lie in your program and this lie will be punished! Let's have a quick election and you'll see how many votes you get. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u390	With regard to the projects for decision.............................................................................................. 89 explicitly says that by decision of the President they may not be allocated, so in this case the decision was made in the Chamber by Maya Manolova. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS: Here is the solution!]] What Maya Manolova has read will not be put to the vote and this decision, which has been tabled with both points, will be put to the vote. Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u391	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Let us be more serious because we are discussing the Sustainability and Development Plan, which should now be heard. This is a topic that concerns the entire society. What is more important for the Prime Minister at the moment, instead of being in this room, and for the topic on which 12 billion will be distributed. Lev?! Many bankrupt businesses are waiting to receive help. They will not hear, but will hear only some lardions and unserious speeches. That's the real question. There's a third revision of the Recovery Plan. Have you seen her because we haven't. It should be provided to the National Assembly and we should all read it. It's not provided, and this is some kind of presentation today "300 pages presentation!" There must be new consultations, to be made public in order for business and citizens to rule. Thousands of people are going bankrupt right now, and what do you tell them about jokes and pranks?! And where is your Prime Minister? What is more important to him at the moment than to help the Bulgarian economy with these 12 billion. Lev?! Thousands of businesses can be saved! People are waiting to hear his answers. There's no one here today, no one here! There's no more important question than this. You have a prime minister in resignation, and he owes the answers here, and he shouldn't even be on vacation, he will violate his leave, he comes and answers these questions. You have no excuse on this key topic. Apart from the fact that the Prime Minister must come, this third revision must be submitted to the National Assembly as soon as possible, and to all Bulgarian citizens, so that there may be comments, comments and additions on it. And most importantly, by 30 April it must be submitted to the European Commission if there is no extension so that people can see that they are working for them, they do what they need to do, so that this year they can have access to this money and help the Bulgarian economy. I hope you will ask the Prime Minister himself to say, although he is resigned, that he will come to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u392	Thank you. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] I won't give you the floor. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS:]] We're done. I am closing the debate on the point of the Prime Minister's refusal to come to the National Assembly. There is a draft decision in this regard. I read you the draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the commitment of Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] What's your procedure? You're welcome to see what your procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u393	Thank you, Madam President. First, I would like you to take the transcript from Mr. Toshko Yordanov's previous statement, to check by the standards of parliamentary practice, ethics and morals, respectively, to impose punishment on him. You have the transcripts and you can read what words you said on the address of the Prime Minister of the State Mr. Boyko Borisov. Secondly, in order to be able to clarify, however, what point we are making today, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like a 30-minute break. [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u394	I'm taking 30 minutes off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u395	Colleagues, we're continuing the hearing. I'm reading the draft decision: Project! DECISION requiring Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov to present the proposals and reasons in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability submitted by the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. It obliges Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov to present the proposals and reasons in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability and to participate in the discussion. 2. The hearing should be included as the first item of the National Assembly's agenda 21 April 2021, with the view that the next meeting will be on Wednesday. Please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u396	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u397	Please, Ms. Karayancheva, as a former chairman you know that the word is given from the place. I don't give you my word. All procedures are complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u398	I'll talk when I want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u399	Please, whoever agrees with the proposal, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u400	It is not entered into the National Assembly's... [[Noise, lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u401	Ms. Karayancheva, the decision has been entered into the office and has the character of a decision on procedural, organizational and technical issues. [[Noise, lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please sit down and speak if I give you the floor. Please take your seat. Please, the Quaestors count. [[(Noise and lines from GERB-SDS, screams:]] We are voting for a decision to oblige Prime Minister Boyko Borissov to appear at the meeting on 21 April 2021 in Parliament to present the proposals and reasons of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan and to participate in its discussion. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u403	Thank you. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u405	Thank you. I declare the result: For the 135, of which by groups:.There is such a people.45........................................................................................ Mutts out!.... 13.Yes, Bulgaria..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Applause from ICN, ISV.]] The people who voted against it used their right to vote and the fact that they then voted again somehow does not make any legal sense. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u406	Please have the Quaestors see to it that the Members of the National Assembly request the floor from a place and receive it when they receive it. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, colleagues, take your seat! I don't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u407	How can I sit when I'm a secretary and they're standing up!?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u408	There are quaestors. You reported the result in the vote against. [[Noise and lines.]] We're closing the point. The decision's been made. [[Applause from ICN, ISV, BSP.]] Here you go. Please, colleague, stick to the rules and speak only under the procedure you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u409	Madam President, thank you. I want a re-voting procedure. In connection with the vote, I am empowered by my parliamentary group to request a roll call procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u410	You are entitled to a procedure during a vote. You did a re-vote procedure. [[(Noise and lines, cheered by GERB-SDS: No, that's not it.]] Please sit down! Please sit down! There is an obvious majority in this House. [[Noise and lines, shouts by GERB-SDS: "Eee. "]] Anyone who agrees with the draft decision, please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u412	Thank you. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u414	Thank you. I declare the result: 145 Mutts out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Stand out!Step out!Step out!Step out!Step out! The decision's been made. [[Applause from ICN, ISV.]] Negative vote please, Mrs. Karayancheva. Ms. Karayancheva, you have abstained from voting, not against.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u415	How did you know I was abstention? For the new colleagues who are here, and for you, Mrs. Chairman, I want to read art. 52 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, para. 3: The vote may be taken on its own initiative or only once in one sitting at the request of the parliamentary group by roll-call reading the names of the Members of the National Assembly. Colleague Gajev asked for exactly that in view of the vote that was to come. So you're required by these regulations to give a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u416	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. In the hall is practically the full composition of parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] There was a motion for a second negative vote. Here you go, mate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u417	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, this is a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u418	Please, you don't get that kind of opportunity... [[Noise, lines from GERB-SDS. Clap from IHN.]] We close the vote and have the advantage of negative votes. If there are any more negative votes, they're before you. If there are no more negative votes that you asked for, and ask for the floor for such a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u419	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, after the procedural disagreements and ambiguities, after the violations of the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to return the debate to the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We have also heard a few moments ago from colleagues who are demanding that the presentation of the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan be heard. Since Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev is here among us, if colleagues really want to hear the presentation of the Plan, I urge you to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u420	Thank you. This has nothing to do with the conduct procedure. The regulations provide for an opportunity for the ministers to take the floor at any time, only that it is clearly used as an opportunity at any time and at any point, regardless of whether the minister has a connection or not, to take the floor. This is clearly contrary to any common sense. It's used to replace a normal sitting. Point three has passed. We're on the agenda. If Mr. Donchev wants to inform Parliament, we will give him the floor, but not now. [[Noise and applause.]] The word has the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on item 4 of the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE PHINANIC KIRYL ANNANIUM, ON THE BEGINNING THING. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2021 AND THE GOVERNMENT, AND THE STRUCTURING OF THE FISCAL AFFECTION AS OF 31 May 2021
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u421	Third point, Madam President. Point three, what are we doing with it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u422	The third point is over even before we accept...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u423	Do you even read the rules? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u424	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u425	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u426	Procedure. [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u427	You're right, I got carried away. [[Heckling]] According to point 3 of the Finance Minister's hearing on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure, which I read to you just now, has the floor of the proposer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u428	What point are we in now? And the third point where is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u429	Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u430	And the third point, where is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u431	It's over a long time ago. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u432	You're a disgrace to Parliament. I want procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u433	Here you go, Mr. Gechev. [[Noise, lines.]] Take your seats! Give the floor to Mr. Gechev to state the reasons of the importer. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u434	Dear colleagues, the level and structure of the fiscal reserve is one of the key macroeconomic indicators for the state and the future of Bulgaria, especially in these exceptional and difficult economic conditions. We are very concerned because of the leaked official information of BNB and weeks ago of the Ministry of Finance we understand that the fiscal reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria is moving towards the critical levels of just over 4.5 billion. BGN, as per the law. According to the latest unverified data, this level of fiscal reserve is around 5 billion. and 700 million. lv. If so, we want to know from the Minister of Finance. He must tell us what the real level of the fiscal reserve is on 31 March this year. I would like to say immediately, as we are talking about a cash base, you, Minister, should have the information shortly after 17.00 on 31 March on a cash basis what is the level of the fiscal reserve, what is its structure and what is its liquidity, as from this state we can conclude where we are at the moment, whether the budget will be able to be tied, including with the established loans.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u435	Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have 10 minutes. [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS. Knocking on banks and chanting by GERB-SDS:]] Here you are, Minister! You're welcome, Mr. Secretary. Here you go. Here you go. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Procedure! "]] There are important things to discuss. There is no procedural problem at the moment. Here you are, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u436	Madam President, please read the Rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u437	Sit down! Excuse the Quaestors! No MP gets out of the place and comes to take the floor here! Please take care of it! Please take care of it! [[GERB-SDS Scandal: "Mouthy Out! "]] Wait, Mr. Ananiev! Wait! Here you go. Here you go. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev! [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev away from the microphones.]] I know you can't. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] You can't do that. If you wanted to do something back on the agenda, you should have done it. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] No, please! Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] You have the right to make a reverse proposal, but in this case an agenda has been voted on, so we are on a item on the agenda. [[Comments from GERB-SDS: "Procedure! "]] Please, procedure is given when there is a procedure! Please read the definition of procedure! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you are, Minister! Here you are, Minister! Start talking. Here you are, Minister! [[Strong noise and banging on the banks from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go, Mr. Glauchev, let's see the procedure. [[Voices "Eee!" and applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u438	I won't thank you, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u439	Of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u440	Just follow the rules, we don't want any more! A procedure shall be given at any Make a reference! Procedure shall be given at all times, unless there is a replica and a duplicate. We didn't see a line or a back. We really need some simple things... Read the rules! A minister can speak at any time he wants.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u441	Please! Please! Please! The procedure is not to explain the Rules to anyone! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u442	She needs it, though! But he needs it! How is that not a procedure?! You don't follow procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u443	Under art. Fifty-five, do what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u444	It's the way it is, of course. Is that what I have to explain to you, too, that the procedure is the way it's handled?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u445	Please come and express your opinion on what procedure you want!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u446	I told you! I told you that you violated the rules and did not lead as follows the plenary session!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u447	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u448	Do you think that's a good thing?! Is that good?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u449	Okay. Do you have anything else to add?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u450	You think it's okay that you're breaking the rules, which is by the power of law, and you're saying well?! You're for the rule of law, aren't you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u451	What request do you have regarding the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u452	I want you to give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to introduce the Chamber to the Development Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u453	Please, please, this is not a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u454	How is that not a procedure?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u455	The Minister is the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u456	The ministers can take her at any time. Read it! And that's in the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u457	The Minister has the right to take at any time, according to you, even when there is no discussion about what he is a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u458	Of course! Read it, it's written in the Rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u459	Well, that's how you interpret the rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u460	I don't interpret it. It's on tape!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u461	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u462	It's on tape!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u463	Mr. Glauchev, thank you! [[(Noise and lines by GERB-SDS:]] Here you are, Mr. Ananiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u464	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u465	The way to keep it clear, Mr. Glauchev. You have no right to a hundred times procedure in the manner of conduct! Here you are, Minister! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Glauchev did it! You've already done it, Mr. Glauchev! Please, the procedure in the manner of conduct... We accept the remark. The Minister has the floor. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Maybe, but later. Here you are, Minister! [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Please! You can, there's no problem by collecting your votes. I don't mind that. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please, no personal procedure! Please don't force me... [[Part of GERB-SDS MPs stand up.]] Please! Please sit down! I don't want to start with sanctions in these regulations! [[The scandal and banging on the banks by GERB-SDS.]] Please! Please! Sit down normally! Court is now adjourned. Please don't disturb the order of the court! [[Part of the MPs from GERB-SDS have stood up. Noise and lines.]] Please sit down! Take it easy! Give Mr. Minister his word so he can say what he has to say. I think you disrespect him, not me. Please sit down! Here you are, Minister! [[Replications from the National Representative Georg Georgiev, who stood up.]] Please, Mr. Georgiev, sit down! That's what the rules say! Here you are, Minister! Here you are, Minister! Here you are, Minister! [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] We will not postpone the meeting until Monday when changes to the Rules of Procedure will be made and will not give you the opportunity for accidental procedures and personal explanations. Here you are, Minister! Here you are, Minister! [[Scanded by GERB-SDS: "Omission!" and banging on banks.]] Colleagues, it's not good to start with 155th... [[Extreme scandals by GERB-SDS: "Meteva" and banging on banks. Minister Kiril Ananiev is leaving the hall. Partial applause and the chanted Bravo!... by GERB-SDS. People's representative Maria Kapon wants the floor, heading for the stands. Boosts by GERB-SDS.]] I'm interrupting the meeting for 10 minutes, and I'm calling the Chairman's Council. [[After the interruption.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u466	We continue with item four of the agenda. For the procedure Mrs. Victoria Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u467	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a procedural proposal, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to postpone the hearing of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance on Wednesday and to move on to the draft decisions for the establishment of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u468	Thank you. A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the so-called procedural proposal to postpone points 3 and 4 of the agenda for next Wednesday, 21 April. Please vote in favour. I'd like the secretaries to start counting and submit the results to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u469	What are we voting for? I can't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u470	Points 3 and 4 of the agenda for next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u471	For the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u472	To postpone two items on the agenda, the third and fourth, for the next Wednesday, 21 April, the Prime Minister's and the Minister of Finance's requests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u474	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u475	Thank you. Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. I'm asking for the result. 143 MPs voted to postpone the two points in April 21st, abstention and no objection. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A STANDING COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS. He came up with this: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 17, para. 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 21, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs consists of 17 MPs, of which 5 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDZ, 4 from the Parliamentary Group of Goons out! 2. elect as members of the committee:... 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 a committee's management in its composition: Chairman:... Vice-Presidents:... You have the floor. [[Heckling]] This is how the proposal was submitted. I read it to you as it was submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u476	Thank you, Madam President. As I recall, at the Conference of Presidents this morning, we commented that there should be no Vice-Presidents, but only the Chair of these Standing Committees, who would still have the quality of temporary until we voted on the new provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, right? In this case, I am also making a procedural proposal to drop the words of the Project for Decision "Deputy Vice-Presidents." On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ I propose Anna Alexandrova, Dani Kanazireva, Radomir Cholakov, Nikolina Angelkova and Alexander Nikolov as members of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u477	Thank you. There is such a people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u478	On behalf of the parliamentary group of "Imam such a people" we offer Radostin Vassilev, Ivo Georgiev Atanasov, Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Iva Miteva. I use the excuse that I'm on the stand to save parliamentary time. We propose as Chairman of the Legal Committee lawyer Radostin Petev Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u479	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u480	Dear Madam President, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we offer Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Todor Bajchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u481	Thank you. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u482	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In the Committee on Legal Affairs from the Committee on Rights and Freedoms, we propose our colleague Hamid Hamid and Mr. Tsvetan Enchev. Eventually, if replacements are accepted, my colleague Hamid Hamid will be a substitute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u483	Thank you. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u484	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the "Democratic Bulgaria" for the Legal Commission we propose as members associate Professor Atanas Slavov and Nadezhda Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u485	Thank you. And stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u486	As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we propose Mr. Nikolai Hadzhigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u487	Thank you. I ask that we put the decision to the vote first. Which is for the decision so read, outside of its composition, we will then vote and the members of the committee, please vote. I apologize, I first put to the vote Dessislava Atanasova's proposal for the removal of the words For. 209, there is none And now let's vote on the decision. Anyone in favour, please vote. [[Reply.]] Then I'll repeat the composition. Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u490	Two votes in. Against? I won't. Abstained? I won't. 210 for. The decision's been made. I shall put to the vote the names so read for members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Anyone in favour, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u493	Two for. Against and abstention? 212 MPs for. We move on to the vote of the President of the Commission. There is only one proposal of Radostin Vassilev. Anyone in favour, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u494	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u495	I vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u496	Against? Abstained? I won't. 146 MPs for, no, abstention 1. With this, the decision to elect the Committee on Legal Affairs has been adopted. We move on to the next decision, which is to elect the Committee on Health. Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 17, para. 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 21, para 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Health consists of 17 MPs, of which 5 from the Parliamentary Group of GERB-SDZ, 4 from the Parliamentary Group of Goons out! 2. elect as members of the committee: 3. It chooses from the members by item. 2 a committee's management in its composition: The President: Vice-Presidents: I guess this is where the vice-presidents will be put to the vote separately. [[Noise and lines.]] Let us vote first on the decision and then on the composition of the Commission. If you'd like to present the names.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u497	Thank you, Madam President. I propose as members of the Committee on Health Member Grigor Gorchev, Dr. Daniela Daritkova, Associate Professor Lachezar Ivanov, Mrs. Alise Murtezova and Dr. Alexander Alexandrov, by proposing as Chairman of the Committee on Health Member - correspondent Professor Dr. Grigor Angelov Gorchev. If I have a minute to introduce my colleagues to his professional serious biography. If not, I would say that the college is betting on the expertise, I think Professor Gorchev would have done a brilliant job. He went through the entire ladder and hierarchy from the first levels of medicine to the highest degree. He is the only member- correspondent in oncology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I therefore call on you to support his candidacy. Thank you. [[Extreme applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u498	For the chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u499	For the chairman, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u500	On behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" we propose as members of the Commission Dr. Silvi Kirilov, Professor Andrey Chorbanov, Deliana Pesheva and Alexander Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u501	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u502	The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is proposed by Professor Georgi Mihaylov, Georgi Gokov and Ilian Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u503	From the DPS?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u504	Thank you, Madam President. From the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms we offer associate professor Dr. Dzhevdet Chakarov and Dr. Tunjai Ozturk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u505	Thank you. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u506	Thank you, Madam President. We offer Dr. Alexander Simidchiev and Katya Paneva, Dr. Simidchiev and as Chairman of the Group, from the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria." Dr. Simidchiev is a specialist in pulmonary diseases, external diseases and health management. He's the head of the functional diagnostic department at the Center... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, can I... He is head of the Department of Functional Diagnostics at the Central Clinical Hospital at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior-Sofia, medical director of the Center for Electronic and Remote Training at the Medical University in Plovdiv. He has years of experience as a clinical doctor and also as a lecturer and researcher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u507	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u508	Correction. We offer associate professor Dzhevdet Chakarov and Dr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u509	Thank you. And stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u510	We propose as Commissioner Valentina Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u511	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. Please vote to remove the words from the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u513	Yeah. Vote folk 211 MPs in the hall, plus a remote two total 213: for 213, against and abstention there is no. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. Please, whoever's for, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u515	Yeah. They voted 211 MPs in the hall, plus two remote We are going to vote on the members of the Commission as proposed. Anyone in favour, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u517	Yeah. Vote 215 MPs: for 215, against and abstention there is no. We are going to vote on the candidacy of a correspondent member Professor Grigor Gorchev. Please, whoever's for, vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u519	Abstention. Vote folk 211 MPs: for 71, against and abstention 145. I'm asking you now to vote for the chair of... [[(Comments from GERB-SDS:]] Yeah. GERB-SDS for 70, stand up! There is a people like this, 45 abstentions, stand up! Goons out!............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Which is for Alexander Simidchiev's candidacy for President of the Committee on Health, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u520	Yeah. Vote MPs: for 139, there are none, abstention 1. [[Applause from IHN.]] With this vote, we have also established the Committee on Health. Moving on to: DRAFT OF THE DECISION ON THE SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION ON BUDGET AND FINLAND He came up with this: Project! DECISION on the election of the Committee on Budget and Finance The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 17, para. 1 and para. 2, p. Art. 1, art. 21, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. The Committee on Budget and Finance consists of 17 MPs, of which 5 from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ, 4 from the parliamentary group of Goons out! 2. He's electing members of the committee. 3. It shall elect from the members of the Commission under the heading. 2 Commission leadership in the Chamber: President, Vice-Presidents. I'll put the vice-presidents to the vote for dropping out. Please provide names for members of the Commission from GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u521	On behalf of Coalition GERB-SDS, I propose for members of the Committee on Budget and Finance: Dimitar Glauchev, Delyan Dobrev, Krasen Krastev, Irena Dimova and Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u522	Thank you. There is such a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u523	On behalf of the "There is such a people" we offer as members: Kiril Simeonov, Zhivka Zheleznova, Svetoslav Georgiev and Plamen Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u524	Thank you. From the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u525	[[BSP for Bulgaria]] : We offer from BSP to Bulgaria as members of the Committee on Budget and Finance: Rumen Gechev, Plamen Milev and Bogdan Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u526	Thank you. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u527	The Movement for Rights and Freedoms in the Committee on Budget and Finance we offer the MP Mr. Yordan Tsonev and the MP Mr. Sergey Kichikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u528	From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u529	From the Parliamentary Group of "Democratic Bulgaria" I propose for members of the Committee on Budget and Finance: Georgi Ganev and Martin Dimitrov by proposing Georgi Ganev as Chairman. A short biography is an economist with many years of experience in economic analysis and teaches economics at Sofia University. One of the most respected macroeconomicists in Bulgaria, analyst. I think in his face the budget will be in good hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u530	Thank you. And stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u531	We propose as Commissioner Mrs Maria Kapon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u532	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. Anyone who is for dropping the words.. Vice-Presidents........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u534	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u536	There are no abstentions and abstentions. They voted 207 MPs for it. We are going to vote on the decision that is on, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u537	About what?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u538	A draft decision to set up the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u541	Two for. Vote 209 MPs: 209 MPs for. I now ask that we vote on the composition of the Commission, which is for please to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u544	209 for. We are going to the vote of the President of the Commission, who is for Georgi Ganev as President of the Commission, please vote. Andrey Mihailov (ITN via Internet platform for video conference):For.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u545	Yeah. For 109, he won't mind, 34 abstentions. The President of the Commission has therefore been elected. [[Noise and lines.]] For 107, 34 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u546	108 is the quorum, or he won't be elected. It's a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Are they on the platform?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u547	Yeah, I turned them on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u548	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u549	It's a re-vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria art. 81 quorum is 121 people, i.e.... [[Noise and lines.]] Here I would like to make a statement about what was recently broadcast on the system and we will see for sure next week, I don't know if it can change, is your registration, but it can never... the quorum is always 121 on the Constitution. [[Noise and lines.]] I beg you very much, whether it is more or less is another matter. As regards how the acts of the National Assembly are adopted, it shall be determined by art. 81, para. 2 [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]] Mrs. Atanasova, I won't give you the floor now. Art. 81, para. 2 says that the National Assembly adopts the laws by a majority of more than half of the present Members of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, from the audience. [[Noise and lines.]] 105 MPs are in favour.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u550	That's not true! One of the attendees is when the registration was made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u551	This is on your registration at the beginning. Would someone like a re-vote? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u552	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u553	Madam President, I propose a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u554	A re-vote that is in favour, please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u555	Wait, I have a procedure before we reschedule a call check of the quorum to have this majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u556	We want a list. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u557	Name check Adlen Shukri Shevked- here Albena Simeonova Varbanova- here Alexander Atanasov Alexandrov- here Alexander Bogdanov Nikolov- here Alexander Velislavov Todorov- here Alexander Dimitrov Simidchiev- here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev- here Alexander Nikolov Valchev- here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Stykov Markov-- here. Alexander Tihomirov Simov- absent Alexander Filchev Mateev - here Alise Kamilova Murtezova- here Anastas Marinov Popdimitrov- here Andrei Ivanov Chorbanov- here Andrey Nikolaev Mihaylov(through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Andrei Hristov Valchev- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- here Antoinette Andonova Stefanova- here Antoinette Dimitrova Tsoneva- here Anton Yordanov Adamov here Armaan Agop Babikan here Atanas Vladislavov Slavov- here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bajram Yuzkan Bajram is absent Bravovest Kirilov Kirilov- here Bogdan Emilov Botsev- here Boyko Petrov Cafedjiev- here Bonka Sergeeva Vassileva- here Boris Tsvetkov- here Borislav Gutsanov Gutsanov- here Borislav Dimitrov Sandov- here Burhan Ilyazov Abase- here Valentin Mirchov Milushev- here Valentina Vasileva Vasileva-Filadelfevs- here Vasil Yordanov Georgiev- here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov here Велизар Матев Шаламанов- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva- here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva- here Veska Marinova Nencheva- here Victoria Dimitrova Vassileva- here Vladimir Slavchev Valev- here Vladimir Stoyanov Rusev- here Vladislav Panchev Panev- here Faith Emilova Yordanova- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Marinova Burdarska (through the Internet) video conference platform)- here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov- here Georgi Zaprev Dinev- absent Georgi Zaharinin Popov - absent Georgi Yordanov Ganev-here Georgi Stanchev Georgiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Tenev Stankov- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grigor Angelov Gorchev- here Danny Stefanova Canazireva- here Daniel Pavlov Mitov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Deliana Valerieva Pesheva- here Denitsa Plamenova Nikolova- here Desislava AngelovaTodorova- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Dilyan Gospodinov Gospodinov- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Georgiev Naydenov- here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Petrov Syarov- here Dimitar Stoykov Nikolov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Gradev-- here. Dimo Chavdarov Georgiev- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Dragomir Georgiev Osavkov- here Dragomir Stefanov Petrov- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov- absent Enko Georgiev Naydenov- absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Esheref Kasim Esheref-here Zhivka Mihaleva Iron- here Zhivko Ivanov Tabakov- here Zlatomira Dimitrova Karageorgieva-Mostrova - here Zornitsa Nikolaeva Mikhailova- here Eva Miteva Yordanova-Rupcheva- here Ivaylo Vanev Valchev- here Ivaylo Krasimirov Kozhuharov- here Ivaylo Nikolaev Mirchev- here Ivaylo Peev Staribratov- here Ivan Bogomilov Petkov- here Ivan Borisov Totev- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Vassilev Hinoski- here Ivan Georgiev Velov- here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Yordanov Dimitrov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva- here Ivo Angelov Hristov- here Ivo Georgiev Atanasov- here Iliana Petkova Zhekova- here Ilija Dimitrov Lazarov- here Ilian Slaveykov Yonchev- here Ilko Stoyanov - here Ilter Bayzatov Sadakov- here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova- here Irena Metodieva Dimova- here Irena Todorova Anastasova- here Ihsan Halil Hakke-here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Yordan Svedenov Stoyanov- here Kaloyan Milkov Yankov- here Katya Maximova Paneva- here Kiril Sashev Simeonov- here Kolyo Yordanov Milev- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Hristov Nikolov- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin- here Krum Georgiev Donchev- here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov- absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Ivanov Bakardzhiev- here Lyuben Lyubenov Dilov- absent Lyubomir Antonov Karimanski- here Lyubomira SimeonovaPopova- here Maxim Kolev Genchev- here Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Kostadinov Peykov- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Maria Vassileva Capon- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Maston Osmanov Mastonov is absent. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova-Naidenova- here Maya Yordanova Dimitrova- here Mika Mikhailova Zaykova- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Minko Velchev Angelov- here Miroslav Ivanov Asparuhov- here Mitko StykovStykov- here Mitko Hristov Kunchev- here Michaela Yasenova Krumova- here Mladen Naydenov Marinov- here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov- here Momchil Kunchev Ivanov- here Mukaddes Yusuf Nalbant here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Nadezhda Georgieva Yordanova- here Nevena Evstatieva Mineva- here Nikola Hristov Krastev- here Nikolay Dimitrov Hadjigenov- here Nikolai Nankov Nankov- here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nikolina Panayotova Angelkova- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Peter Hristov Dimitrov - here Petar Yassenov Marinov-here Petya Nikolaeva Tsankova- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Danailov- here Plamen Ivanov Milev- here Plamen Nikolaev Abrovski- here Plamen Nikolaev Nikolov- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Plamen Hristomirov Rashev- here Radomir Petrov Cholakov- here Radostin Petev Vassilev- here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rositsa Lyubenova Kirova- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Sasho Todorov Savov here Svetlin Kostov Stoyanov- here Svetoslav Bonchev Kolev- here Svetoslav Georgiev Georgiev - absent Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sezgin Yussain Mehmed- here Sergey Manushov Kichikov- here Sylvi Kirilov Petrov- here Slavena Dimitrova Tocheva- absent Stanislav Dimitrov Govegorov- here Stanislav Svetozarov Balabanov- here Stanislav Todorov Trifonov- absent Stancho Dimitrov Stavrev- here Stella Dimitrova Nikolova- here Stefan Apostolov - absent Stefan Nedelchev Mirev-here Stoyan Alexandrov Mihalev- here Stoyan Kostadinov Stoev- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Stratzimir Ilkov Pavlov- absent Tanner Kadir Turkoglu- here Tanya Todorova Petrova- here Tatiana Doncheva Toteva- here Theodora Margarita Peneva- here Tihomir Gochev Tenev- here Todor Baychev- here Todor Vassilev Vassilev-here Todor Stamatov Todorov- absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov- here Toshko Yordanov Hadjitodorov- here Tunjai Ramadan Ozturk is absent Philip Marinov Stanev-- here. Philip Stefanov Popov here Filcho Krastev Filev- absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov- absent Halil Rexepov Letifov is absent Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hatice Mehmedova Georgieva- here Hristina Ivanova Georgieva - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Lubomirov Ivanov- here Hristo Mikhailov Dochev- here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov- here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- here Tsvetan Ivanov Enchev- here Tsetska Georgieva Bachkova- here Ömer Mustafa Hamza- absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov- absent Please re-vote the vote for Georgi Ganev to be President of the Committee on Budget and Finance, please vote. Andrei Mikhailov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u559	Galya Burdarska?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-16.u560	Yeah. Two for it. Against? Abstained? For " 112 Members of the National Assembly," there is no "104" abstentions. The chairman has been elected. [[Applause.]] There is such a people.45 for, stand up! Goons out! ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. GERB-SDS "Abstentions 66, BSP " 38, total 104. With this, the agenda for today is exhausted. I declare the next plenary sitting on 21 April 2021 at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
