ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u1	Dear Members of the National Assembly, good afternoon! There's a quorum. I'm opening today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]] The agenda for today's meeting is to include two points, the first of which is the adoption of the Decision on Rules for Remote Participation in the meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under compulsory isolation or quarantine because of the COVID-19 and the second item of today's agenda is Parliamentary control under Art. 104 of the Rules. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT DISTANCE RULES IN THE MEETINGS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES LOCATED UNDER A REQUIRTIONAL IMPLEMENT OR CARANTINAL COVID-19. A draft decision has been deposited in this regard by a group of MPs. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 63 of the Health Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules for remote participation by electronic means in the meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19, as follows: 1. Members of parliament placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to the COVID-19, as well as those close to contact within the meaning of an act of an authority under art. 61 of the Health Act of a confirmed case of COVID-19, are entitled to participate electronically in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly. 2. Remote participation by electronic means is carried out through an internet platform for video conference, which provides direct and virtual participation in meetings. 3. The Members of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria 1 shall be registered for participation in the plenary session by visualising a special screen in the plenary. The President shall declare them to be present at the meeting and shall be added to the stenography protocol. 4. In case of a request for a vote, speech, reply, duplicate, explanation of a negative vote, personal explanation or on procedural matters, the Member of the National Assembly shall state its wish by request on the platform. The chairman shall give and take away the floor of the Member of the National Assembly through the platform. 5. For outstanding questions for the Members of the National Assembly 1 The provisions of the National Assembly Decision of 6 November 2020 on the adoption of Rules for participation in the plenary meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly placed under compulsory isolation or quarantine because of SOVID-19 by an act of authority under art. 61, para. 2 and 3 of the Health Act (BW, No. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u3	Thank you, Mr. Belev. I'm opening discussions on the proposed project. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From what has been read, I would like an editorial amendment to be supplemented also after the decision: To adopt rules for remote participation by electronic means in meetings of the National Assembly of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine because of SOVID-19. The same is to be supplemented after the first point as well as a confirmed case of SOVID-19 I've extracted specifically from the Ministry of Health what the green certificate is. I'm handing it over to you so I don't read it all, it's a long time. Here you go. [[The National Representative shall submit a document to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u6	This is the green certificate. I would add the following as arguments: who, if not us, the MPs, should be the personal example? Inoculation saves lives, and I think we should also protect the lives of all those who surround us, our families, friends, relatives, journalists, administration that works in the National Assembly. We know that doctors are treated and allowed to work only after a green certificate that is needed and done continuously. You know, some of them do quick antigen tests or PCR tests literally every 72 hours. In no way must the people's representative be any different from the rest of society. Therefore, I personally insist that this be supplemented. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u7	Mr. Baltov, can I just ask you a question? Your proposals are to be amended. 1 and after the word In the title of the decision to make an identical one, because there is... [[Reply from the National Representative Assen Baltov.]] And in the title too. Okay. The line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! What we are trying or trying to do from yesterday and from that day, and today, to place the green certificate as some standard of entry or exit to the National Assembly for a meeting or not, we all become accomplices to the Bulgarian citizens not to be vaccinated. These debates, which we are trying to lead them here, work in the opposite direction because right now in the minds of Bulgarian citizens, that for all of us the green certificate does not apply, but not in this hall, but does not apply outside the restaurant, does not apply in the cinema, does not apply in the theatre, because my constituents ask me: when you go to the theatre, do you show green certificate? That's what we've done so far. We are not talking about the work in parliament, we are talking about the MPs whether they should have a certificate or not. That's it. Professor Baltov, I am glad that you asked the question, but I would like to ask you: You want to say with this proposal that a representative of the people without a green certificate will meet online and a representative of the people who suffered in a traffic accident with a broken leg will not be able to meet? You're a surgeon, and that's why I'm setting this example. I mean, the guy who's healthy, right, but there's no green certificate, he's gonna stay home and work, and the guy who's sick can't come here visible, documented, he can't work? So my question is: why do you make this discrimination between people? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] No, that's discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I heard GERB's proposal. I understand that colleagues continue their tradition in the last few days to try to limit the access of MPs from our parliamentary group to the National Assembly building, as they are familiar with our vision of the unconstitutional green certificate. I see that even today they continue to try to put into a proposal by our colleagues from "We continue the Change" to help quarantined MPs to participate in the National Assembly meetings yesterday we saw that a colleague of theirs swore and subsequently. This proposal I understand, but I do not understand why the discrimination of Bulgarian MPs should continue by a parliamentary group with experience, which should protect the exercise of constitutional powers by the MPs governed by art. 62, all the way to art. 87 of the Constitution? So I strongly resent our parliamentary group on this proposal for an addition to the proposal of our colleagues from "We are continuing the Change" which I support otherwise, I hope my colleagues too. Please, I appeal to all MPs in this House, the proposal to supplement GERB not to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u11	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I expected today there to be a new declaration from the GERB sector, to read and explain how everyone should comply with what they want, namely to expel everyone from the Chamber and to remain only them to scribble and to do what they have decided. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] It is high time you understood that this thing ended in the Bulgarian Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u13	Mr. Ganev, the line...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u14	...you can't afford to violate the Constitution and restrict our rights to be here and defend our constituents' rights. It's just another cynicism of yours, and it's also 12 years of all kinds of financial machinations. You're reaching for our rights as well. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Hole, Mr. Baltov, come in. [[Heckling]] Three lines up. You have no right to any more.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My back is for Mr. Svilensky. We are discussing measures here only for SOVID-19. And the second is that the moment we let them work online, we do not prevent them from defending the rights of their constituents. But we can't have a different measure of who's better off. It can't be the people's representative who benefit from it. At the moment, all who have been vaccinated, who have had a rapid antigen test or PCR test, as well as experienced, you even know that they have increased the time limit by more in one year, have the right, as well as those who have antibodies, with a certificate that allows them in the next 90 days and if they have enough antibodies, also be present in the room. So everyone else, as colleagues who are quarantined or with SOVID-19, will work online. Because we can't give this bright example in quotes to the whole society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u17	There is such a people to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, a green certificate is a discriminatory excuse to be a form of document allowing citizens to have access to work. It's a fact. Because you, colleagues from GERB, and especially Mr. Angelov, can also quote his comments from TV interviews when the green certificate was introduced as a form of access in Bulgaria, you yourself, Mr. Angelov, said that this is a discriminatory attitude towards more than 75% of the Bulgarians. Yesterday, your colleague, Mr. Dilov, spoke of cognitive dissonance. Perhaps this applies to you, because at this point the speeches are unconstitutional. Because you play the role of some supposed constructive opposition, but you contradict each other. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN. A line from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u19	A line on the speech of the MP Stanislav Balabanov? I won't. A personal explanation from Mr. Angelov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Balabanov, it is good that you remember the statements about cognitive dissonance, but from a medical point of view I will tell you that the fact that you do not remember my entire speech is a sign of serious changes in memory. My statement was made and it means something that is very important to introduce a green certificate in Bulgaria with less than 25% vaccinated Bulgarians is, yes, discriminatory attitude towards the remaining 75%. But the green certificate in Bulgaria has already been introduced. This green certificate was introduced for a large group of Bulgarian citizens, including our children who go to school. Kids who don't have a green certificate don't go to school. Whether a measure is discriminatory or not discriminatory cannot be assessed by us. There is a Commission for Protection against Discrimination. If we think something is discriminatory, it's the authority that has to say it. Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me to take the floor on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u21	Let's finish the personal explanation and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u22	Yeah, I finished the personal explanation. Dear colleagues! I find it incomprehensible as a doctor to turn this subject into politics. In Bulgaria, COVID-19 died according to official data, nearly 30,000 people. Yeah, they're dead! They're dead! 30,000 people died! [[Heckling]] Bulgaria ranks first in death in the European Union from CIVID-19. Bulgaria ranks second in the world's mortality rate from CIVID-19. When we talk about discrimination and rights, we must say that the highest law, which is guaranteed in the Bulgarian Constitution, is the right to live. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 of the Bulgarian Constitution is said to be entitled to life. Invasion of human life is punishable as the most serious crime. Dear colleagues, the role of the green certificate is a single one of us who owns it, ensuring that, with our contacts with the people he has, with his elects, with voters, with media representatives, with our loved ones, he does not commit any abuse on their lives and health. Anyone who does not have a green certificate, anyone who has not been vaccinated with a complete vaccination cycle has not experienced it in the months concerned, after becoming sick, has no negative PCR test or antigen test, puts life and health at serious risk to the people with whom it communicates. Shame and disgrace is for the National Assembly what is happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u23	Professor, the topic is not about the Green Certificate, however, but the remote rules in which cases to apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u24	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. [[Noise and lines.]] We propose the introduction of a green certificate for the MPs and who do not have, to be able to vote and work electronically from home.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u25	But we have not yet adopted such rules for the green certificate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u26	And this is my statement in favour of our proposal. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] It is precisely in favour of this proposal that I will mention personally the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. Dear Mr. Yordanov, Mrs. Nino, Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Petkov, Mr. Kostadinov, Mr.... Please, the question is what example will this National Assembly give to Bulgarian citizens. It is not permissible for us to remain silent about the fact that Bulgarian children do not go to school when they do not have a green certificate because they are such orders. If you haven't read the orders, please meet them. The Green Certificate has three options: one is a complete vaccination, the second is a test, the third one is a disease. It is clearly and precisely said in a directive of the European Union. And because I see Mr. Petkov in the front row, who is running for prime minister. Dear Mr. Petkov, I would also like to introduce you to the example in Canada. [[Laughter]] The requirements for entering the Canadian Parliament of all members of the Canadian Parliament, of all members of their teams, of all journalists are a complete vaccination cycle. [[Heckling]] Complete vaccination cycle after 14 days following a second dose of vaccine. Same rules apply at Harvard. [[Noise and lines.]] Therefore, a few days ago, I called on your political party precisely, because during the election campaign you had many positive messages related to the battle with COVID-19, with vaccination, now is the time to prove it. Maybe this editorial amendment won't be accepted. It may not be accepted, but it is important to give a clear sign of this tribune to all people who look at us that Bulgarian MPs are equal as people who go to a restaurant, like people who send their children to school, like people who enter the mall. We are not chosen, we are not anointed. We are equal to Bulgarian citizens. And that's what you were repeating during the entire campaign. That is why I address you, because with your voices and with our voices this amendment can be adopted. Not this one, but the green certificate requirement. And this will be a sign to all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u27	Replies to Professor Angelov's statement? People's representative Andrey Gurov was first, then the people's representative Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I agree with many of the things that have been said so far. What we at "Keep On Changing" think is that at the moment rules are being discussed for remote participation in the meetings and in this sense the proposed proposal is outside the context. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] At the moment we speculate what consequences it will have, what it will mean for the participation of the MPs. And given that the green certificate decision has not yet been taken, we propose now to vote against this proposal and to discuss the green certificate as a whole concept with a clear idea of how this will affect the work of the forty-seventh National Assembly at the time of an epidemic. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u30	I speak for myself, not on behalf of the parliamentary group, because in our parliamentary group, people can also think about this issue on their own. I will not vote for this proposal, first. Secondly, because I have spoken to Professor Chorbanov, who, unlike you, is working with this particular virus, I know that an unvaccinated person without a PCR test, but a healthy person, is not dangerous to anyone. But if he's on a full vaccination course and a virus carrier, he could get sick, and he could get infected. My opinion is that the green certificate should be removed in principle at the moment because it kills a large part of the Bulgarian business. Again, that's my opinion. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u31	Are there any more lines on Professor Angelov's speech? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to make a line for Mr. Angelov. He said Bulgaria was first in mortality than CIVID-19. I'll explain why. Because you, ladies and gentlemen of GERB, as well as your allies of the UDF, killed Bulgarian healthcare. That's why the Bulgarians die. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] And they don't just die from a horse. Why don't you tell us how many Bulgarians a year die of cardiovascular disease? Since you obviously don't know, I'll tell you 78,000 people. 18,000 people die of cancer. Do you remember that during your reign there were pensioners who died of cold and hunger? So a little more carefully with the causes of the death of the Bulgarians. The green certificate is discriminatory and we don't want privileges. We also want the Bulgarian people to be released from this condition, because no one should prove every day that they are healthy. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u33	Professor, can I get you a doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u34	My fellow Members, I'd like to return the ball to the field of reason again. We're definitely looking at the session. In this session of the National Assembly we will have reasons to argue, exchange lines and insulting qualifications. We see that the chairman is tolerant of this. But we're talking about something else here. There's no point in measuring our expertise or anything. It's proven in the world. Bulgaria will come out the smartest and most original nation in the world, which does not recognise the achievements of world science. Those are the rules all over the world. Those are the rules throughout Europe. We are members of the European Union. You will probably suggest that we get out of the European Union, because it is discriminatory because they impose rules on us from there. If we want to be members of a community such as the European Union, it is unwise for different rules to apply in Bulgaria. If we want to raise proud Europeans, as our children are, we must be their example. We in this room must be the example of our children. There's no way to explain to our children that to get into school, they'll be tested with saliva and that they won't go to school if they don't agree to be tested by the parents and not for us. Understand it! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] There's no way we can look at Facebook photos that someone fights against the rules and doesn't wear a mask in the parliamentary room, and the store wears a mask. [[Noise and lines.]] Understand it! If we don't give the rules and we don't follow them and we don't stand by them, then we're not fit to stay in this room. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Because we're always talking about a compound, we're all talking about power, but Bulgaria is in serious crisis, people! Bulgarians are dying! I know how many died of cardiovascular disease and cancer. I know exactly what the cause of death is. There's no point in lecturing each other from the parliamentary tribune. We need to set an example, an example to our children. [[Applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u35	Thank you. For speech from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Group on the proposal for green certificates. I would like to say that this is our principled position. In this case, we will support this proposal and I will tell you why. This is not in view of the call made by Professor Angelov. I have previously asked the floor to present and to say that our entire parliamentary group from today only two more colleagues will participate, we have green certificates. [[Applause from DPS.]] First of all, this is our position. I am a doctor there are other doctors in our parliamentary group and in the leadership of the party we have presented our convinced medical position that this is the right approach to vaccination. In view of this, the entire parliamentary group voluntarily, with desire, each one is vaccinated and we all have certificates. We should give this example to the whole public, to all people with fear of vaccination, not the stands of the National Assembly to fear and provoke a reserved position, restraint. If we want to fight, as in a number of countries we see, I hardly need to give examples now, but the best example until recently was Israel, it is obvious that where there is a high rate of vaccination, the incidence occurs with much more sparing, I would say, parameters. Are we not shocked by the fact that we are the second in the world in mortality in terms of a horse, the first in Europe? If we want to be successful and this mortality falls statistically, then there should be vaccination. Besides, there really should be green certificates. Yesterday I was at the mall and there they check on the way in if you have a green certificate. We enter the parliament, we enter and exit, and what example do we set in this regard?! And the fact that there is a carrier of those who have even been vaccinated, yes, but the statistics on mortality are clear and clear that it is much higher among those who have not been vaccinated. So there is no room for doubt as to how we should approach it here. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, that we from the National Assembly's stands are not the first time calling for vaccination. In the previous format of the National Assembly, the forty-sixth National Assembly, when discussing changes in the budget update, we supported the changes with a view to providing funds to combat the cavity. Then we called for active vaccination. We should all be inoculated on behalf of our parliamentary group and on my behalf as a doctor, so that we can fight this serious test and challenge! We see that the pandemic is growing, there are new forms of strain of the virus, the way for success in the fight against the pandemic of the flu really passes through who will say anything during vaccination. In view of this, we will support this proposal for green certificates. In principle, when it is discussed, our position is clear and clear. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u37	Is there a request for a line? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's do it by procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute! Does Mr. Chorbanov want a line? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line is regarding the need to introduce such a certificate in the workplace. The order is very clear and clear and concerns specific visits to public buildings with unlimited access, such as malls, theatres, restaurants and so on. The National Assembly, as well as many other places, are specific organizations in which access is restricted and limited. What if we introduce a mandatory green certificate to the National Assembly? This will immediately give the right to absolutely every employer in the country, absolutely every administrator to introduce the same mandatory condition for work, which is absolutely discriminatory. While visiting a mall and theater is extremely personal as a choice, it controls the exercise of this profession is discriminatory. It is on this point that I strongly object to the introduction of such a certificate. Just as an example of the schools we were talking about. No examples should be given that are taken at random from different places around the world. In 80% of European countries, students are not tested, they are not checked, which does not mean that we need to copy everything directly. The same applies to a very large part of the world's parliaments, which also do not have a restrictive regime for visiting their workplace. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u39	Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Once again we listen to what two years of mathematicians explain about the mass pestilence that is coming. But you're missing something very important. There are professors here, medics. You are missing the fact that Bulgaria until two years ago was first in mortality without the so-called pandemic. Bulgaria comes first and to the present day for the worst health care. Part of that is you, because you were health ministers and you didn't change anything. Health is in such a state that mortality is colossal. Until just a few weeks ago, my mother was cancerous and couldn't get into surgery because she had this so-called pandemic delaying surgery. That's the cause of death, not what you're pointing at.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u41	On the subject, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u42	Right on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u43	I remind everyone that the topic is for remote participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u44	That's right. When we introduce discrimination to work, we get to the point where we make children discriminate. Right now, there are kids who don't go to school because of, as you said, Professor, student certificates. This is your cynicism because you point out Canada, excuse me, there is currently a boom of sick people all over Western Europe and there is talk of a fourth and then a fifth vaccination. There are crowded health facilities in the largest countries. In Holland, they wander the streets...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u45	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u46	...armed military personnel to comply with the green certificates. That's what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u47	Mr. Ganev, stick to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u48	Yeah, that's right, I'm sticking. You want to violate the Bulgarian Constitution and limit the rights of the people who are currently working here! You want to limit access! It's total cynicism for online broadcasts...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u49	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u50	...doing this thing. [[Applause from ARRANGEMENT. A line from the National Representative Toma Bikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u51	You have the right to reply yes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chakarov, in order to focus the topic here we do not talk at all and perhaps we should make debates on the topic: Is vaccination good, is vaccination bad, should there be a green certificate, or should we not? Here the question is: will Parliament be aligned to all others who respect the green certificate or not? Maybe you, as the majority-seeking majority, are turning to the majority-seeking, decide that your health minister will cancel the green certificate. That's a whole other question. If he cancels, there's no problem, of course, in the parliament. The point is that when we oblige a person, by going to a pub or a theater, to have a green certificate to make an exception to parliament, is a bad tone. That's the problem. Because it is constantly being talked about raising parliament's authority, Parliament's decision to be an exception to the rule will not raise parliament's authority. You can, if you want, have a debate about whether or not there's a green certificate. By the way, it was quite problematicly introduced, quite surprisingly overnight, by your minister. If you want, let's call it off. Go out and say, "Let's cancel the green certificate." There's no problem with that. But let's say there's a green certificate for everyone, it's a very good practice, follow the rules that have been introduced by the Ministry of Health, but we won't follow them because we're MPs...?! I'll give you another example. How do the quarantined MPs who are not sick who are quarantined because their loved ones are sick? Why do they participate online that they are healthy people? Why do they participate online in meetings when we talk about who is healthy and who is sick? In the same way, we need to deal with this issue. We just want to have a uniform standard. Nothing more than that. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u53	Would you like a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, I didn't hear any objections to the substance. With all due respect to you, Professor Chorbanov, your position is clear to us, but the world scientific thought has spoken on this matter, our fellow doctors too. I would like to reply to my colleague that I am also a doctor and definitely my position is clear. I have spoken, and I will not repeat myself. I'd like to ask the colleagues who object and really fear people: has any of you ever been in intensive care, seen intubated patients? Me and the doctors we've been talking about, we've seen. Do you know how many people are on command breathing and intubated right now? The way we can cross the pandemic and be successful in fighting this serious test and challenge before us is precisely limiting the spread. And those here, other fellow Members, by the way, Mr President, it is good to make a remark to fellow Members who are not wearing protective masks in the Chamber, I would like to say that even if we were to accept those who are in this Chamber, to be in an environment here that would undoubtedly be risky in this case, as well as in other public institutions, it implies that if we have a responsible attitude towards society, to all our fellow citizens, to come here to Parliament, to come directly and nowhere to come directly, no contacts, no work, and we know what the function is, the task and how we should carry out our activities, so that we must be responsible. Once again, I call for vaccination, but voluntary. The green certificate may be after vaccination with a vaccination certificate and may also be tested. This does not exclude or impose an obligation. We are not for compulsory vaccination for voluntary, and we call for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u55	By procedure, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to follow the procedure, as Mr. Gurov of your parliamentary group suggested, on item three, that no deviations from point three be allowed. And so, as you declared on the first day of your election, please observe precisely and clearly the program of the National Assembly, without allowing GERB and anyone else to divert the debate in a direction that is not meaningful in accordance with point three. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u57	Once again, I remind you that the topic is about the remote participation in the meetings of the National Assembly, not about and against the introduction of a green certificate. Professor Simidchiev has been waiting for a statement for a long time. [[Replicate from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov.]] I've got you on tape. Colleagues, I also remind you that taking the floor can by raising your hand, maybe by written request. Give her written requests, especially when there is greater interest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u58	Mr. Chairman, I'm an ordinary doctor, I'm not a professor, but I've been dealing with the theme for a long time before I joined the parliament at all, and I have a very clear position on this subject. We also have a very clear position of our parliamentary group, and it is in two aspects. Firstly, the topic we are discussing at the moment is: how to vote people who are sick of a horse or who are in contact with bone disease and are quarantined. For those of you who don't do public health, quarantine doesn't mean that a person is sick. That means he's in contact and he's at risk of getting sick. A little bit about green certificates that are not being discussed at the moment, and that is why we will postpone, we will abstain from voting on the subject of green certificate at this point, but we are for green certificates when entering parliament, because green certificates are not discrimination, they are a way to manage risk. They show who is more risky and who is less risky with regard to the disease, because when a person has experienced or vaccinated, yes, there is no guarantee, Mr. Yordanov, on this subject, but it is much lower risk and it cannot be compared to the risk of one who has not been vaccinated or vaccinated. Dramaticly reduces the risk of both contamination and spread. Scientific publications are sufficiently clear in this regard. So the certificate is necessary to manage the risk of spreading the infection, and when we sit in a room of 240 people, it is highly unreasonable not to manage the risk of spreading this disease. Also, when contacting people outside, with the administration or journalists, it is highly unwarranted not to manage this risk, which is much greater than the risk of going to the gym, to a restaurant or anywhere else. So we are categorically about green certificates, but the point that we are discussing today is whether people who have a mackerel at the present time, before we have decided on a green certificate or not when entering parliament, is limited to whether the sick and quarantined people can vote and participate in Parliament remotely. So on this point, we will vote in the original text, and we will abstain from changes until we accept as consensus in this House that we must manage this risk, because if we do not work here, the entire legislative process in the state stops and the risk of not working here is the greatest risk at the moment. So let's not spread false news, let's talk calmly, let's decide on the green certificate. When this item is placed on the agenda, then we will be able to make any necessary adjustments to any additional, associated regulations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u59	Thank you. Is there a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To Dr. Simidchiev. I'm extremely surprised, Dr. Simidchiev, that you support the right thing to do. What we are asking from GERB-SDS Group is not to distinguish the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian doctor, the Bulgarian teacher, when going to work requires a green certificate, and the MP, notice, is entitled to some other pedestal, see that he does not need this green certificate. So I call on Dr. Simidchiev to support us now, because this is the clearest way to show our fellow citizens, to those people who have chosen us to be in this room that we are the same, we are equal to them. Your fellow doctor may not be required to have a green certificate by going into surgery, and here the MPs, coming to work in the National Assembly, should not be required. To every Bulgarian teacher, colleagues who are against this, you should say, when you see him tomorrow on the street yes, you should also demand from the children, you should demand from every single person who goes to work, enters a restaurant, goes to a public building, but we, the MPs, see, we have already been selected by you and coming here to the National Assembly, this does not apply to us. That's the bad example. This is not the return of parliamentaryism. Yes, you do. That is why I call on my colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria to support us. We from GERB-SDS will defend this proposal and we want it to come even sooner to class. That's why we're doing it right here because we accept, Dr. Simidchiev, that the place of this proposal is now. There is no longer time for a double standard and you should not speak to all who have been selected and broadcast in this House by the citizens that we are different from them. Otherwise, I agree that all summer, there were many speeches in this direction, slept by the caretaker government, suddenly introduced this green certificate. I am not a health person and I do not dare argue whether it is discriminatory, whether it was introduced on time, but all Bulgarian citizens think that most of them are of the opinion that it was not properly introduced. Therefore, let a fellow Member of those who will not support this proposal come out and call for the repeal of this green certificate. To say that the President who supported him was wrong and discriminatory towards the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u61	Mr. Ivanov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm graduating. So, to Dr. Simidchiev, support us in this proposal. That's the right thing to do. We are no different from any Bulgarian doctor, from any Bulgarian doctor, from any Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u63	Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u64	Dear Mr. President, by observing the lines and, accordingly, the comments that are here in this Chamber, I am under the impression that there is really an understanding on the subject that there is no way that there can be a double standard indeed. And you can't, and you shouldn't. It is also forbidden by the Constitution and prohibited by all other laws of ours. There is therefore no way that, if there is no green certificate here, there can be in the rest of the society and other buildings that are described in the less comprehensive order of the Minister of Health. We believe that the green certificate should be dropped entirely and that there should be a special discussion here in Parliament. We therefore agree because we believe that it introduces discrimination in society. We believe that the attempt to comment on this topic at the moment is a bit interesting, however, because there is talk of European practice. It was mentioned that this was the case in the European Union. Not always. It is also not the case in the European Parliament, because there is a judgment of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and there is no entry with a green certificate Speaking of European practice, this is European and political case-law. There is something else, however, that we seem to be starting in our group, to think, in view of the opinions expressed by the group of GERB. Perhaps we should consider, fellow Members, whether we should introduce an intelligence test. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] However, I do not know if then the entire GERB group will have to be present remotely. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u65	No offense, Mr. Kostadinov, please. Is there another line? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Simidchiev, you deviate from the topic because you cannot explain to the Bulgarian citizens why they should all comply with the Minister's order and the MPs should not. Let's put it to ourselves in a straight text, what we are debating at the moment, and what we want from GERB is both all Bulgarian citizens and the MPs to comply with the Minister's order. Nothing more. And this is the editorial amendment which Mr. Angelov proposed because otherwise, as Bulgarian citizens have already repeatedly said, they respect the order and the MPs do not. Why aren't they following her? You know what? This is even more interesting because, you see, the MPs or their chairmen of parliamentary groups, some of them, by the way, gathered at the so-called Chairman's Council and this Chairman's Council, without a decision of the National Assembly, decided that the MPs were superior to society, they were superior to the citizens and for them the order of the Minister did not apply. With the vote today we will see who believes that the MPs are equal to the Bulgarian citizens and who are those who think that the MPs are more than the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u67	Professor Simidchiev, for the back? There's no desire. Colleagues, I've written more speeches by Professor Mihailov and Alexander Nenkov, but it's 12:00 p.m. and we need to move on to the blitzcontrol. Abort. Moving on to the second item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Please invite Mr. Stefan Yanev and the Deputy Prime Minister Galab Donev, Boyko Rashkov and Atanas Pekanov to the Chamber. Colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to a procedure under art. 104 of the Rules. Within the procedure, we will do two rounds with questions. Each parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question and possibly a reply. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister Donev, please answer me: During the second term of office of the caretaker government, what is the amount of funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises and at what stage is their repayment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u69	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. For your answer please come in, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, support for small and medium-sized enterprises under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness"............................................................................................. lv. For the same period, September 20, 8 December, 1968 contracts were concluded with a total value of 98 million. 515 thousand. lv. With this, small and medium-sized businesses are helped sufficiently to deal with the pandemic. The measures to maintain employment and support business under measure 60/40 are also supported, including small and medium-sized enterprises. According to "Save me plus" are also supported by small and medium-sized enterprises and under the measure "Entrepreneurship" are also supported by small and medium-sized enterprises, but the most intensive assistance for them goes through the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" - the data I presented to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Donev. A line, Mr. Stoilov? No. Thank you. We are moving on to the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS "Mr. Dobrev."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Prime Minister, my question is for you. According to the latest Eurostat statistics, Bulgaria's economic growth for the third quarter of this year is 0.4%. At the same time, Romania's economic growth is 8%, that is, 20 times higher, and the average for the European Union is 3.9%, that is, almost 10 times higher. My question to you is: have you analyzed why Bulgaria is the last? By the way, these 0.4% are the lowest economic growth in the whole of the European Union. So my question to you is general, as our Rules say: have you analyzed why we are last in the European Union on economic growth? And not only that! I will repeat it again, and not in order to bring dramatism to my words, but because statistics really are. Bulgaria has growth 0.4% in the third quarter, while Romania is growing by 8% in the same quarter and the European Union by 4% in the same quarter. Romania is 20 times faster, Europe on average 10 times faster. Since I doubt that you will be tempted to say that this is almost the inheritance, I will tell you what the data is for the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year, i.e. the last quarters in which he managed GERB. Economic growth is then higher than the European Union average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u74	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The game with statistics is an interesting task, and speaking of the word "game" it is because the comparison based on quarterly statistics and a snapshot are not the most accurate indicator. What do I mean? I mean, on an annual basis, these numbers are quite different. Let us leave the comparisons, because if we look at the third quarter and the effect on the economy of high energy prices, you would say that they are everywhere in Europe, but because of the nature and nature of the Bulgarian economy the effect was probably strong in Bulgaria. At the same time, comparable to the other quarters of the year, our known to date three, the expectations and forecasts of both the Statistical Institute and the Bulgarian National Bank are that on an annual basis the growth will be comparable to the European So, taking the data for one quarter from the context, another is the question of whether they are relevant, whether all macroeconomic indicators have been taken, is an issue that is yet to be specified and analysed. Of course, within the office we do our analysis, especially in the Ministry of Economy, and if you want to know what this analysis is, the Ministry of Economy can give you details accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u75	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u76	Mr. Yanev, I would be happy to receive the analysis you have done at the Ministry of Economy, although perhaps next week another cabinet will perform it. But low economic growth is also an indicator of something else. If I may, a complementary question: if we do not have economic growth in the third quarter, because 0.4% is as if there is no economic growth, there may be only two reasons for having a balanced budget or a better budget balance. One reason is inflation, which there is undoubtedly. The second reason is the delay in capital expenditure. My thesis is that you have postponed a significant amount of capital expenditure this year, so your budget is balanced. However, delaying these capital costs means that the coming months will be low, if not with negative economic growth, unfortunately. And I'm really sorry. As you can see, I raise this issue without putting any policy into it, and in order to address the cabinet and the National Assembly for taking action. It remains unclear why the state should withdraw 12 billion next year. lv. the debt is equal to 12 billion. BGN, or 10 billion. BGN, because we received conflicting explanations and information from the media about this, provided that you postpone all capital expenditure and have almost balanced at the moment budget, which, I repeat, will lead to further difficulties of the economy? The delay in capital expenditure will further shrink the economy, hope it does not lead to negative economic growth in the next quarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u77	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to take advantage of the right to the doppelganger? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u78	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Entering a debate on several topics related to economics, upcoming budget, growth and explanation of quarterly data based on different assessments is a little, how to say, it is difficult to see which topic to catch first. Let's go back to growth data. What you refer to is an expert assessment. The official assessment of the Bulgarian Statistical Institute is for growth of 4.6%. I didn't want to go into these details because it's not the time and I don't think I'm going back to my original thesis that comparing the growth and dynamics of the economy by quarter is not the most accurate indicator. At the same time, let's move on to what debt is needed for next year. I think it is Parliament's duty, when debating the budget for next year, for 2022, to decide what debt is needed and what is the decision that will ultimately be taken in this House. So by mixing the topics and giving the impression that current growth means that there is some problem in the economy, I wouldn't say so. On the contrary, Bulgaria's economy has developed well in the past six months, positive. I do not deny the inherited heritage in purely economic terms that at the beginning of the year the trend was also positive for the economy. I don't speak politically here or who has done what, but let's say, so to speak, the economy is an inert system. Its growth or its decline will feel perhaps in a few months. At the moment all that is being done in the interests of the Bulgarian business, the economic activity of the Bulgarian citizens is positive and the results even if they are not good at the moment will be felt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u79	Thank you, Prime Minister. On behalf of the DPS, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mr. Rashkov. Mr. Minister, according to the Election Code, people with permanent disabilities who do not allow them to exercise their selective right in electoral premises, they vote with a mobile electoral box. Only in the interest of statistics and for information of all of us are there around 650 thousand in Bulgaria, for which this has been proved by expertise, they have the relevant medical documents. The list of persons who will vote with a mobile electoral section shall be determined by the municipal administration upon application by a voter with permanent disability accompanied by the relevant medical documents. The municipal administration shall be bound to include the person on the list without having the right to discretion to assess either the authenticity of the document or the damage. During the election campaign, both during the July elections and November elections, numerous actions were carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to explain why they were included in these lists against officials of municipal administration and mayors of municipalities, as well as brutal invasions in the homes of hundreds of people with disabilities. The same are forced by policemen to squat, to get up, to walk, thus checking their injuries. With such brutal intimidation the police directly intervened in the electoral process and violated the right of the Bulgarian citizens to exercise their right to vote. My question to you, Minister, is who ordered the police officers to carry out such acts? Have you issued direct or through the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior such orders to the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u81	Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members! This guy's been listening to it a couple of times. It is used only for political purposes and nothing else! [[Replications of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Do not replicate me from a place, please, to give you an answer to the question! [[DPS lines.]] You ask and ask me for an answer, and if you please, in front of the cameras at least, some simple political culture. The Minister of Interior may not issue such orders to any employee to exercise acts that are outside or contrary to the Bulgarian laws. It's only in your heads. Nowhere else is he, and do not humiliate and insult the Bulgarian police, that they violate the law, that they carry out repression and similar actions. Follow the Bulgarian law as well, give an example of this, as if there are specific complaints of Bulgarian citizens against acts committed by police officers in violation of Bulgarian laws, including crime, give these materials. I said it in the previous parliament, I will repeat it now, or for verification in the Ministry of Interior, and we will do so, or in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, if you think that there would be some bias in the Ministry of Interior. And stop with the nudity claims, please! It is true that information was received in the Ministry of Interior that the wires are being made attempts during the elections to move on to a vote with a mobile urn. This is clear for everyone here in the hall and outside the hall, especially in the hypotheses, especially in cases where such diseases are not detected, which prevent a Bulgarian citizen from going to the polling section. Such cases in the Ministry of Interior, honourable MPs and citizens who watch television and listen to radio are established in the Ministry of Interior. Here I will tell you that if you continue with these purely political speculations that undermine the prestige of the Ministry of Interior, every time I come here to parliamentary control I will prepare at least 10 such cases in which the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have revealed such violations and have given them to the prosecution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u83	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u84	Thank you. Just to tell Mr. Rashkov and all his colleagues: we treat the Ministry of Interior with extreme respect and all his employees. This is the law enforcement authority and there is no topic, and that is exactly what we expect from the Ministry of Interior to respect the law and to guard the law. And in this sense, Mr. Minister, neither the Ministry of Interior nor the municipal administration is competent to determine which person is disabled and who does not have other competent authorities. Breaking into these people's homes for no reason at all, of course, we also have an interest in proving all the cases and also proving repression during the campaign, and then we saw several journalistic material that clearly showed behaviour and what was done. We saw there and the people who were complaining about this repression, about this anxiety, and at some point claiming it was insinuation?! Of course, we said in the previous National Assembly, and in this: we keep every case checked and will want to be checked for whether the rules have been followed, if there has been repression, and there has been one. These aren't insinuations! The prestige of the Bulgarian police officer and the Ministry of Interior, which I say as an institution we respect, you are undermining you, Mr. Minister, not us. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u85	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u86	Why did it happen so, honourable Mr. President, honourable Members, that with the formation of the caretaker government 1? 2 then some representatives of the political parties in Bulgaria started to speak in such a way that the Ministry of Interior restricts the political rights of citizens to vote? Why is that? Every reasonable Bulgarian citizen gives himself an explanation for why it is so and it is no secret that someone here from this tribune is trying to blur things out. The goal is not to change the opinion of the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian public. Of the first two official governments, and we are now continuing, for the first time the cases against the political rights of citizens have exceeded 100. Until now, in the administration of the GERB party, such a thing was not observed, and that is why we fully understand how the two parties unite, use the same rhetoric against the Ministry of Interior, that you see, there has been political repression. On the contrary, the political repression in our country and in the last few choices that took place this year is the result of the criminal activity carried out by representatives of some political parties, who, however, stand in the shadows and bring forward Bulgarian citizens who, after some small remuneration, commit, agree to commit crimes against the political rights of the citizens, are currently suffering the criminal responsibility and criminal cases are going against them. I specifically promise both the DPS and GERB that I will try to get this information out in full to see who is exercising repression, who is distorting the political situation in our country and who, despite the political pressure from the DPS and GERB, is, of course, trying and imposing the Bulgarian criminal law. These cases, which some said were insinuations, were false data, and so on, at the next meeting I missed them now, I was going to take them, we've made photographs of large papers that I'm going to show you here at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u87	Your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u88	Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u89	I want the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u90	I'll give you the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, a very gentlemanly and friendly request to you in the spirit of tolerance: please, when a minister was Mr. Boyko Rashkov, he was strong, turned away from the topic and began to make suggestions regarding political parties, to make a remark to him. I won't comment on what he's talking about, you're German-speaking, you know the works of Karl Gustav Jung and Siegmund Freud. But even if you are wired to what the Minister is talking about, Mr. Chairman, there is an inevitable day in politics coming when there will be a minister here who will slander you.............. and then I assure you that the DPS will again be the party... regardless of who is in power and who is in opposition, which will defend the principled positions. Whatever you do, please remember this! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u92	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Rashkov! However, I address you first, Mr. Chairman. If the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Interior is allowed in the entire election campaign to make some extremely false suggestions that do not suit any Home Minister, or at least I do not recall in the years back that anyone has allowed it, with whatever data it has, whatever information comes to him, whatever complaints there are, no Home Minister has allowed himself directly and rudely to interfere with the political campaign... [[IHN lines]] I'll get to that, Mr. Karimansky, if you give me the floor, or will you give it to me? No one has ever allowed such a thing, and now, however, as Chairman, you have no reason to allow this to happen. If in the election campaign he was forgiven and somehow it was accepted, then here he has no right to do so, and you, as President, have to introduce this particular requirement to him. Mr. Rashkov, as long as it doesn't happen, I will end up not doing the same as with the numerous signals and information about listening, and finally what you have done. You closed the meeting in the previous National Assembly so that neither journalists nor Bulgarian citizens can actually get acquainted with this in quotes of sensitive information. That's what you're going to do now and with those data you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u94	What was the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u95	Thank you. First of all, in the context of the objections in the manner in which you are led, I ask only that the comments be made against the President. Secondly, I appeal to all those who express themselves, both the members of the legislative and executive powers, to show respect for each other regardless of their differences in political bias, membership in parliamentary groups and any other differences. Thank you. We move on to questions from BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The question I am going to ask is the Recovery Plan and it is logical to address Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov. Indeed, we have been late with its introduction for objective reasons, but for several days we have information that there are too many questions on this recovery plan. You know, colleagues, that's approximately 12 billion. BGN, which are necessary for the recovery of the Bulgarian economy, which are also related to concrete reforms. When information appeared in the public domain that there are 43 questions, of course, that from the BSP for Bulgaria....we were startled because we didn't expect so many questions to be asked about our recovery plan. We therefore want to ask the question and explain it to us: do we officially have so many questions to the Recovery Plan; please explain to us which sectors exactly these questions are, which reforms concern and, of course, what is the deadline to answer these questions? You understand, fellow Members, that if this is what the next government needs to answer, and we only have about one month, it will be extremely difficult to answer, or, on the contrary, it may be easier, and so far, we have done that for reforms to respond with ease. The other information concerns the sector..... and that almost what we have proposed in the sector........ does not meet the European requirements at all, which is already quite, quite worrying and the next government will not be able to restore confidence in Brussels in the short term. Therefore, my question to Mr. Pekanov is to explain to us and to give us more clarity: how many questions, in which sectors, which reforms are really needed to be, if necessary, revised, what is the period of implementation in which to answer these questions so that we can get really green light from Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking, Mr. Stoinev! Yeah, it's important to bring some clarity. Yes, feedback has been received from the European Commission and it does not surprise us in any way and does not bother us. Bulgaria receives recommendations from the European Commission every year. In recent years, for example, 2020 34 recommendations on what Bulgaria should do. For the previous year they are the same, and Bulgaria for the most part has not done much. So far, there has been no European mechanism by which European institutions require us to give any result every year on these problematic sectors that we have. Let's not focus on those figures you're talking about. There are 57 projects and 46 reforms in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan. We have received feedback, in which there are two major issues, I will return to them later, and separately technical issues on some of the reforms. For example, when this law will be introduced, something that is difficult to say at the moment whether we have set out to be introduced as reform next year or the year after that. These are technical issues that will be cleared, and the ministries are working on it. These are questions that don't bother us or surprise us, and they're not something we didn't expect. The big two open issues are indeed, as has been said many times, in the field of energy and in the area of rule of law. We've been having difficult negotiations over the last few months, and I think we've set our point. It is absolutely untrue that there is a great criticism of the sector. On the contrary, there has been great progress in the sector.................... at the moment, as it is in the Plan. This was also the feedback I received in many informal meetings, from where we started in May and where we are now. But we have our red lines. The European Commission perseveres for more, so to speak, reforms, and one of the important parts is the reform of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. This is something that a office cannot take on now as a commitment, and this is a red line to which the negotiations continue. Again, these are negotiations, and not all we get on the other side is something we tend to accept. After all, we must defend the right position for the country and the position that the individual ministries consider to be right. With regard to the rule of law, I think we've done a very good job. The Justice Ministry has proposed a mechanism for the criticism that we have received for years in the Annual Report, namely the lack of accountability of the Attorney General. Mechanisms have been set for how to address this, with more details to be cleared here and the technical mechanism itself how to choose such a person who can investigate the Attorney General. These are the two major issues on which the negotiations are actually continuing, but just because we are getting some comment from the European Commission does not mean that every one of them must be accepted, and we must defend our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u99	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Stoinev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Pekanov, it's still not clear. Four five months ago, we also knew that concrete reforms should be carried out in the sector of justice and in the sector of............................................................................................... What exactly is required of the European Commission, what are the red lines of us still not clear? It is suspicious that information that this document has been returned by the European Commission is received by former MP Mika Zaykova at least this is how it came out in the media instead of having a position from the government. Yes, the document has been returned, there are 43 questions. Reforms are needed here, but what should happen right now, we never got a real answer. If the document had been sent much earlier, perhaps the government could have acted as when I myself called on you from this House to send it, because you will receive questions to answer, and you will now really prepare the next government with concrete actions. For now, however, only you know, you have the specific information, only you are informed of what is happening, and the public knows nothing. Colleagues, that's 12 billion. We had to get some of them in advance in order to really start the real recovery of the economy. Until the government is formed, I hope it will be soon next week, until the ministers get acquainted, until the reforms start, it will be another two or three months and Bulgaria will be in line again. Therefore, it was really not too late to say exactly what are these red lines from which you can never back down, what the National Assembly needs to do as reforms, and the next government and now the next parliament, and we here to be aware. Guys, we really don't have any time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, I'm ending up with one last sentence. It is almost as if some countries have begun to recover, and we, unfortunately, especially in the field of health, are getting deeper and deeper. So 43 questions.. I fully agree not to look at the number, but in the end these are not few questions, whether technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u101	Mr. Pekanov for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me make some more clarification. After all, the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is a document of the executive authority "all ministries are moving their projects and reforms. It's not true that I have all the information. On the contrary, all ministries know what they have to do. I will say it again: much of the technical issues are related to whether we see that a law will be adopted, for example, at the end of next year, or at the end of 2023 or 2024. I do not think that this is all something that I should now list. Let's get back to energy and rule of law. At the end of August, I was here and I was looking for an opinion from you on how to resolve this issue, the BEH reform, which addresses the problem of cross-subsidisation within BEH, which is seen as problematic by the European Commission. I'm saying that our position at the moment is that we cannot offer one, and we will stand for that position. Again, the fact that there is some requirement or expectation that something will happen if the relevant portfolio ministry does not think that this is the right option does not need to be accepted, which is given as feedback. In the sphere of rule of law. I think I've explained it very clearly several times. Control must be strengthened, and the Chief Prosecutor should also be given the opportunity to investigate, especially in the absence of an investigation. These are things described in the Plan, you can see them. I think they're in t. 2 of component 10, reform 2. There are described all the things that we have pawned at the moment, and the European Commission wants us to explain them in greater detail. We may not even want to explain them, because in the end these are reforms that the National Assembly will take in the future. We do not want to tie the hands of the National Assembly at the moment how they should happen. That is, we are trying to leave a lot of flexibility on these reforms, and that is why we do not go into detail to explain this will happen in this way in this law, precisely in order for the National Assembly to be able to take these reforms in the way it sees fit. What we're supposed to do is now pass on how they're going to happen. In these negotiations, we are trying to leave precisely such flexibility to make these reforms best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pekanov. Questions from the parliamentary group There is such a people? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Prime Minister Mr. Stefan Yanev, because it concerns foreign policy and our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Prime Minister, in the last month in public appearances by senior representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, we see some particular enthusiasm and uplifted mood, talking about their upcoming membership in the European Union. In this order of thinking: is there anything that we as Bulgarian MPs do not know; is there a change in the Bulgarian position on the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the European Union; are the talks continuing, at what stage and in what direction they are developing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u105	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Vasileva, there is no change in the Bulgarian position. There is nothing that the public does not know, including yesterday at the Council of Ministers, we adopted a position of the Bulgarian government, which will be presented to the General Affairs Council next week in Brussels. This is the position that was also protected by our representative at the Permanent Representation in Brussels, if I am not mistaken, last week. There's no change! And what we observe is the enthusiasm shown by leaders of a foreign state or demonstrated by foreign media. I do not think that we should comment on it in depth in the Bulgarian Parliament, because from this platform we cannot tell our colleagues from the relevant governments what and how to do. But let me stress that the position of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the entire region of the Western Balkans is generally permanent and permanent. Our position is that not only the Republic of Northern Macedonia but also the Western Balkans as a common region deserve their European future and Bulgaria has deliberately declared over the years, but also contributed to the preparation of these countries in their path to the European future. With regard to the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the fact that we have a signed agreement on good neighbourly and co-operation in 2017, our claims as a state are that the State concerned is not fulfilling its obligations. We've described them, we've commented on them repeatedly, I don't think we have any news here. On the contrary, in the Bulgarian position, which is repeatedly declared not only but also commented, it is known, it is public with the so-called five plus one points, that is, let's say the scheme on which the talks can continue. We hope for a well-intentioned attitude from our fellow Members from the Republic of Northern Macedonia so that this necessary dialogue can be obtained, that differences can be overcome, so that a date can be given for the first conference and that the negotiations of this country with the European Union can be started accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u107	Thank you, Prime Minister. A line? I won't. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Mr. Mirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u108	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Tomorrow we are about to witness the hidden privatization of the Plovdiv Fair. Tomorrow, a decision will be voted on at the Municipal Council, which will transfer 29% of the Plovdiv Fair from a company of Mr. Georgi Gergov, who you know has had interests in the overall acquisition of the Fair for years. As a result, the Bulgarian state will not exercise any control over the Fair. If I may, a note. As a regular exhibitor, I must tell you that this may be the only case in which the state has been a better owner of a company than its private owner. Since Mr. Gergov gained partial control of the fair, he's actually only been going down, but that's not the point. The topic is, I will go back a little bit, in 2016 the Ministry of Economy relaxes 29% of the Municipality of Varna's Fair so that it can get back the so-called hole in the city center. This does not happen and in 2017 the municipal council voted to return the shares of the Ministry of Economy. However, this did not happen four years later. Mayor Portnich has now decided in collaboration with Mr. Gergov to make this report, as a result of which from tomorrow the Bulgarian state will have no influence over what is happening in the Plovdiv Fair. My question to you, Prime Minister, is: is it possible for the decision of the Municipal Council to be translated into force and for the Ministry of Economy to regain its shares, or if not, what can the Council of Ministers do to save the Plovdiv Fair? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u109	Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mirchev, the facts you have presented are such. In short, I will introduce you to what has been done so far by the Bulgarian government, including in recent months and recent days. You are right that the Bulgarian State has surrendered, if I am not mistaken, the figure is about 16 million nameless shares of Varna Municipality and subsequently, after what you described, in 2017. The Municipal Council of Varna has made a decision. I think that on 2 May 2017, to provide, i.e. return of these shares to the State. However, this has not happened so far in the last few months. I have before me the second letter of the Minister of Economy to the Mayor of Varna Municipality and the Municipal Council of Varna, in which he insists that this decision will be implemented from 2017. What will be the vote tomorrow of the Municipal Council of Varna, at least I cannot predict what the final result will be, but in what you mentioned, we can involve the Municipality of Plovdiv, who is also a partner in the Plovdiv Fair. If this happens, virtually the existing shares of the Municipality of Plovdiv will fall as a percentage and its weight will be reduced. In other words, concerns about hidden privatisation will be justified. In this case, the Ministry of Economy has sent its views and warnings to both municipalities that this should not happen because it goes against certain laws. From now on, the ways to confirm the state's positions in this company, which is apparently well managed, as you said, are either by court order or by the help of the National Assembly, which laws should be changed so as not to allow the local authorities in such a way to discourage the central government, i.e. the executive, and to find the right balance in the future time not to allow such effects. But the facts that I said are the same, and what we're doing is possible within the framework of the law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u111	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. For a line? I won't. A question from the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection? Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! In the crisis caused by the CoVID-19 epidemic, the most affected are disadvantaged people, disabled people and children who are at risk of poverty. What measures were taken by the government to protect these most vulnerable groups of Bulgarian citizens? Are special aids and reliefs foreseen for these people? Is aid specifically envisaged for businesses of disabled people, employers who have employed a certain percentage of disabled people, and how are families supported where there are children with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u113	Mrs. Guncheva, who is the question addressed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u114	To Minister Donev, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the context of an ongoing emergency epidemic situation, all persons who need State support according to the developed and implemented measures from the very beginning of the CIVID-19 pandemic cover absolutely all Bulgarian citizens, including people with disabilities. The measures, which I announced at the previous issue: 60/40, the so-known measure "Save me" + "Entrepreneurship for you", the support of parents of children up to the age of 14 then, when they have to stay home to look after their children because it was announced accordingly by the order of the health minister a measure which restricts visits to school, so that all disadvantaged people, including people with disabilities, can benefit and they benefit from all these measures. None of the measures corresponds or restricts or selectively directs a particular group of people to a particular group of undertakings. This is not allowed under the relevant mechanism, which is under the European Union Temporary Framework for the implementation of these anti-epidemic measures and the relevant measures taken to assist the population............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the moment, I cannot tell you exactly how many businesses are for and for disabled people who have received specific assistance under all these measures, but all these enterprises receive assistance under each of the measures that support businesses, in support of employment, respectively the support of people with disabilities and their children. Otherwise, each of the measures acting under the current legislation for people with disabilities, including children with over 70% appearance and degree of disability, and 90% respectively, the dimensions that are obtained under the law are 350, 450 and 930 BGN. So these funds are received monthly from each disabled child.... by the person who takes care of this child... the parent concerned, or if it is placed in foster families or families of relatives and relatives for upbringing. On absolutely all the measures that support currently in this extraordinary epidemic environment people and business are included people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u116	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u117	Dear Minister, I understand that there is no special aid and relief for people with disabilities. They shall be subject to general support. I would like to remind you that these are citizens of a particularly vulnerable group. They are much harder on us than any of us to accept the consequences of this crisis, much more affected. And that is why I call on the caretaker government, as God forbid, to form a new stable government, to take action in this direction and to protect both disabled people and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u118	Thank you. Would you like a douche? No. We're moving on to round two questions. On behalf of the "We continue the Change" - Anton Tonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question will be addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Donev: what measures has the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy introduced so far in terms of providing energy aid to people in vulnerable groups in relation to rising inflation and increased energy prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u120	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What the caretaker government has undertaken with regard to support for families with targeted aid, which is for heating during the winter season under the current legislation. The total amount of this aid for heating season per family or per person is BGN 523,55. An additional one-off aid of 300 BGN was also granted by a government decision. persons and families who are at risk, respectively, need assistance. This one-off financial support has helped 27, 349 people. This money from today is paid in the respective departments of the Bulgarian Post Offices, and to those of the applicants who have indicated that they want these funds to be paid by bank transfer, the money has already been transferred to them. Most of this aid and even the heating aid have benefited in the districts of Plovdiv, Blagoevgrad and Vratsa, where the largest number of persons who are entitled to this monthly target aid for the heating season and the one-off financial support of 300 BGN is concentrated. A little more for this one-time financial support of 300 BGN. It was actually provided through an additional transfer from the central budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy budget of 15 million. lv. and covered all persons who, respectively, because of excess of the defined differentiated income up to BGN 30. they did not come into the target heating aid under the law of BGN 523,55 and also the other condition that they had less than six months of registration in the employment offices as unemployed before the application. So all these people who applied for it, but for these reasons were rejected by the social services of the Social Assistance Directorate, they were automatically administratively processed, respectively submitted for the aid of 300 BGN, and the time limit for the applications they could submit was by 23 November this year. It is quite briefly what the caretaker government has undertaken with regard to heating aid during the current winter season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u122	Thank you. For a line, Mr. Tonev? No. Thank you. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u123	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Stoynev in the part related to the Plan for Recovery and Sustainability asked a question which I had previously asked myself to ask myself. Therefore, I will address the Prime Minister with the following question: in relation to the energy crisis that has occurred with increasing energy prices, more and more often it is said that non-bit consumers who are not protected by the regulated market are unable to pay their energy bills. This started in July and August of this year, two months before energy prices and in Europe went up. In the Forty-sixth National Assembly of our group, we have repeatedly wished that the budget that you have submitted for an update should be put in place. Alas, that did not happen. Since December 1st, non-violent consumers have been left without any help. So in the context of the speeches and of the finance minister that the caretaker government has prepared a budget by law, which will be submitted, are funds available to non-bit consumers to assist them in this period of extremely high and record prices for Bulgaria? And if so, in what direction are they, if you have information? As a matter of fact, I have no right to ask for detailed information, but if you have information on what part of the aid for November and December has been paid, it would also be relevant for both us and the viewers, because at the beginning of this month there was still no money paid to non-residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u124	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the issue is serious and is very important for the Bulgarian business, for non-bit consumers, because it is publicly known that the measures that the cabinet has taken to distribute some of the profit of the NPP "Kozloduy" at the expense of the non-bit users are designed and has a period of extension of its effectiveness within two months. First of all, from the last further question. At the moment, 47 companies, 46 contracts have been signed and literally these days the payment of a large part of the compensatory amounts to most of the consumers for October and 10th respectively, i.e. next week, will be made for the November accounts as well. The estimates that are available in the Ministry of Energy and the corresponding contracts that have been made provide for this to happen now. So far, a relatively small amount has been transferred due to the natural delay in accounts and the need for their processing. But that will happen in the next few days, literally next week. With regard to the measures and their continuation, how much and how much, without going into details, are provided for in the draft budget? Yes, they are, but in the end, this draft budget will be viewed here in plenary. That is, it depends on your will what these measures will be and how they will look relevant from December 1st, because the forecasts are that the energy crisis with high energy prices and electricity, respectively, and to a large extent gas as price parameters will be high in the foreseeable future and in the next at least two and a half to three months. That is to say, what should be taken as short-term measures is at least for the period from 1 December, at the discretion of the Council by the end of February or March. In addition to what we are talking about, and in line with European practice, there are shades of what is being done in other countries of the European Union, of course. The measures taken in all Member States are not the same, but some of the Member States have set up a change or cancellation of value added tax. This is also provided in one of the options the office is working on, and this option is proposed in terms of whether the future cabinet and the National Assembly will agree to the temporary adoption of such a measure of partial or reduced value added tax on the price of electricity. These decisions are coming. Of course, yesterday we literally looked at this type of measure from the perspective of the need to agree, to make the necessary administrative preparation in coordination with the European Union and the European Commission, so that, in the coming weeks, we would be ready to, of course, if Parliament so decided, to adopt such a type of measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u126	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yanev, indeed, as you mentioned, Parliament is the place where we will decide what the budget will look like next year, but you will make it extremely easy for the process if there are concrete measures in this budget. Undoubtedly from the group of GERB-SDS we will keep at least within the next six to nine months there are clear measures that are related to the expectations of non-bit users, and they are already over 200 BGN. a discount on the price of energy, preferential value added tax, reduction of excise duty, both on electricity and natural gas, in order to actually be able to reduce the burden and costs, so to speak, because these costs are ultimately paid by the Bulgarian citizens we represent here. An appeal to you, or rather a request, if possible, because today we have heard that in the sector.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you can enter into Parliament these remarks, which have been received by the Commission, so that we can also meet them and discuss them in time, and in parallel with the executive, if there are proposals from the National Assembly, also be included. It is certainly also important to take into account the fact that, in the future, any aid granted to non-bit consumers must be provided instantaneously within the month in which the energy needs to be paid. Because otherwise business calculates this high price of energy in its final product and end users are the ones who pay the bill. And ultimately, under these difficult conditions that the European economies are currently in, and we have to take care of it first and foremost in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u128	Thank you. Mr. Yanev, will you take advantage of the right to the backrest? No. Thank you. On behalf of the DPS, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister Yanev! Mr. Boyko Iliev Rashkov, international standards and good practices for conducting free and fair elections strictly prohibits any authorities from attending and entering the sectional election committees. Presumption is simple as they are subordinate to the executive power, they can influence the electoral process. So far, all I'm talking about is international practices and standards. According to the Bulgarian Election Code, namely art. ) (a.k.a. 6, the police should guard in front of the section and shall not enter it unless it is explicitly summoned by the selection committee for riots in the electoral room. On the election day of November 11th of this year around 10:00 p.m. in Section No 107, Haskovo, and No 20 in Stambolovo, Haskovo District, police are invading the electoral premises without signal or order and starting questioning the members of the SIC, notice, in the presence of the voting citizens. In this regard, my question to you is: on what basis have these actions been carried out, by whose authority and under what circumstances have the police invaded the electoral premises, since the RIK and the Central Election Commission have not received complaints of disturbance in the section; have you personally ordered the Director of the ODM Ukraine Haskovo, or through the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior to carry out such unlawful acts? Bulgarian society awaits answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u130	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u131	Mr. Chairman, the election was on the 14th, as I recall.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u133	Yes, thank you. I don't know where Mr. People's Representative is asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u134	Same date.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u135	Yeah, okay. There are numerous polling stations when elections are held in our country. I can't tell you in Section X who's been sitting where, who's been doing what. To me, as Minister of Interior, there has not been any signal of violations committed by the Ministry of Interior officials who, in any event, should have been there near the polling section because they have relevant commitments regarding the conduct of fair elections in our country. If you have such a signal, dear Mr. National Representative, please present it to us to examine it. We'll check it out and give you an answer in writing. Here to suggest that there were violations of the electoral process are merely allegations that I can't verify right now... I must ask the President of Parliament for time to clarify, as far as possible, here for a few minutes, which I objectively cannot do. It's blitz control. You could put this same question to me in writing and when we carry out a check, give you a comprehensive answer. And that is why I believe that you are constantly trying in this form of parliamentary control to make suggestions in the Bulgarian society. I dare say that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the last two choices that have been made have fulfilled their obligations by law with honor. Not only have we not allowed the elections to be unfair, but for the first time in history in decades, we have been able to solve crimes against citizens' political rights, some of which have been linked to a movement for rights and freedoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u136	Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u137	Mr. Rashkov, we didn't hear an answer to the question of whether you ordered this. Otherwise, thank you for admitting that you ordered shares against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Yeah, you can't know in Section X what's going on and you shouldn't know because inside the election room the police have no work either by law or by international standards. But what's even more disturbing is that we didn't hear your principled position on the presence of the police in the election rooms. I understand that most international acts governing the matter, such as the OSCE Copenhagen Declaration, the OSCE Good Practices Manual, have been adopted since 1990 and may not be familiar to you, but there are many others, such as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, by the way, tomorrow we mark 73 years from its adoption, and many others that date back to 1990. If you have been banned before or you have been worried internally about getting acquainted with them until 1990, they are now generally available. Even organisations responsible for the preservation and dissemination of these documents are spending serious annual budgets to promote them today. And since your attitude is clear, I will provide you with short samples of these international acts, the so-called militia editions, we once told them to get acquainted with them and not to claim that you hear for the first time when you gas the Bulgarian law, international legal acts and international standards. Otherwise, the purpose of the actions mentioned for us by the DPS and for the entire Bulgarian society is crystal clear.................. the fear of the voters are well known and unforgotten primos of the communist regime and of the State Security of this period. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u138	Thank you. Is there gonna be an asshole? Thank you. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u139	Dear Prime Minister, my question is to you because of the seriousness and importance of national security for the state of the water sector at the moment. The problem with the cost of water due to the high price of electricity. energy and the lack of an efficient response by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is once again an occasion to alert how serious the problem is and that the deadline for its resolution is more than urgent because all this has had to happen in the past. A serious part of the country's plumbing companies are increasingly pressed against the wall by a real bankruptcy. A few days ago, a meeting between the Energy Regulator and the Regional Ministry created even more tensions and we all remained without reason to expect that something would soon change so that water companies would not fail and consumption would have a normal and bearable price under the new conditions. The fears of the sector that at least half of it is facing a real stop have already been announced. It is particularly disturbing for us that the business plans of the water sector inexplicably why they have been aged for half a year in the Commission and they cannot really enter into force since 1 January 2022. Moreover, the price of water inside them can no longer be updated given the new energy costs for it, the new minimum wage, the cost of resources for the water infrastructure. In your person, we demand that the executive announce its position on the following issues: is the executive ready to ask for a legal measure under art. 19 of the Water Services Regulation Act, after the KEWRC has detailed information about the share of electricity costs. energy of each water company and the share of energy in each of the services they offer so that information about current prices can be obtained within a day; what is the position of the government and the portfolio ministry for the possibility of the Security Fund... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Twenty seconds. ...the power system to transfer funds to support the water companies, as a result of the increased prices of electricity. The energy there is accumulated a lot of money? Finally, are there any readiness to proceed to a change in the Energy Act so as to add water companies as economic operators who can enter into a contract for the supply of electricity. energy at prices regulated by the Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u140	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue of both electricity and gas and water prices, in this case the water sector, stood and stood on the attention of the office, but here the question is about an interaction between authorities and different regulatory authorities. The Office is working intensively and well in coordination with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, but at the same time it is not in the position to give recommendations and to tell the Commission how to perform its duties. We know legally how the Commission is formed, on the basis of what legal frameworks it works, so what you quoted....................................................................................... 19 of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act provides for a price review procedure which can be initiated precisely by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Yes, there is dialogue with her, and not since yesterday, and the different options for reducing tensions in relation to the burdens experienced by the water operators are being considered. However, the Commission's assessment is whether and how to initiate the procedure under art. 19 of this regulation law. What has been done by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, under whose hat is the water holding company, and is actually responsible for this sector and economically, and from the point of view of the services provided to citizens in relation to water supply. All these arguments that you have listed are well known and are being worked on. One of the directions in which it is working is a proposal for a law which will, of course, be dealt with in this House when it is ready and submitted. This proposal is to create first a social, minimum consumer rate, let's say a fully conditional 3 cube. m per household to be paid at preferential price. From that point on, the costs and pricing of the relevant water service operator are already estimated. Yes, the price of electricity reflects both the activity and the potential demand to raise the prices of water operators, but I would not like to comment on what is in the power of the Commission for energy and water regulation. Regarding what you mentioned about the Fund, I think that the purpose of the fund itself is different. It is not intended to compensate consumers or part of the system that consume electricity.. more precisely it was created to cover the costs of the National Electric Company. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this sense, it is probably impossible to look for reservations there, but reserves can be sought in other directions, as we have spoken before the relevant water operators make an association. In fact, it was made at the water holding company to have its own company to enter into a contract for the supply of electricity where necessary. Thus, some of the high prices are compensated. The necessary actions are to be taken by both the Commission and here in the National Assembly. The proposals to be made by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will be specified and provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u142	Thank you. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u143	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. I see that so far everything has been left in the lethargy of the Commission's inactivity for energy and water regulation and it has somehow sunk into this by its independence. This is the organ that was supposed to... I agree that the executive has no influence over him, can't order him, can't order him, but look at the situation we're in. I don't want to scare people, I don't want to paint apocalyptic paintings, but if these companies are declared bankrupt, what happens? You mentioned the new bill that will be submitted by the Regional Ministry. There is also social tolerance, there is written down, notice, and something else that these services can be performed exclusively and only by public companies. One bankruptcy, one bankruptcy, I do not want to go there that every head of such a company has a criminal responsibility if he does not declare the company in default, I believe that the state, because there is still a state, will not allow this to happen. But I would like to develop a very short hypothesis when it goes bankrupt, it loses its right to be the operator of these services. Most of these companies belong to the associations and associations have to declare a concession for this company. That's what it says, that's what it says in the contracts, Mr. Donev, because I see that you're reacting a little bit as if it's not true. That's the truth. They must go to the concession market. The example of Sofiyska water is repeatedly given in this hall in what way the concession in these services robs the people. So I don't think it's going to come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u144	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Is there gonna be an asshole? No. Thank you. There is such a people here.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Prime Minister, ministers! Fact is the policy of genocide by all governments of Borisov from 2009 to 2021 regarding a whole region of Bulgaria, namely Northwestern. An Agreement between Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia was signed in 2007 to build a border crossing point at the village of Salas by Bulgaria and Novo Corrito by the Republic of Serbia. Construction was started in 2014 and was stopped by the government of Borisov. My information is that the Serbian state is willing, the infrastructure is built and is ready to open this border crossing point. It is in the interest not only of Northwestern Bulgaria.. of the districts of Northern Bulgaria in order to reduce traffic, trade relations between the two countries and ensure the livelihood of the residents of Vidin region in this region. Do you have any information on why the project was suspended and what decisions should be made by the Bulgarian State for the implementation of this project? My question is to the Prime Minister or possibly to Minister Rashkov, who is familiar with the state of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u146	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Atanasov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable Members! I don't think there's any of us here who could explain in detail how things were going all these years ago. But what you said was absolutely true. I took an interest, I even made a meeting, not only on this issue, but I used the occasion, with the Serbian Interior Minister not far from Kalotina, there we met, the second question I talked to him about is this. They're actually ready with their precinct near the village of Salash. It is known that there, perhaps 4 km from this settlement, there is some road. It is very difficult to say as it should be, and the construction is stopped. So far, we haven't found out what caused it either. Perhaps the more appetizing projects have stopped this completion. I'll say it again, it's only four miles. Indeed, it turns out, I have also spoken with Minister Violeta Komitova on this matter....................................................................................... can start construction and be completed........................................................................................................................................................... But so far, they have not taken such action. I mean, it's out of my jurisdiction. There is no need for much money, but in any case, if this section is completed, if it is opened I have also talked about this issue with the Serbian Interior Minister, they are ready to open border crossings, it will be easier to find the citizen who goes in both directions from Serbia to Bulgaria and vice versa. Secondly, I was interested in this project and about something else, because we are now in the active season, we have had quite serious reproaches from our neighbours from the southeast, Turkey, where we have rightly been dissatisfied with the fact that there are a huge number of cargo machines, transport at all, and given our commitments to the European Union, and as the eastern border of the European Union, and the southeastern border, we cannot compromise when checking the means of transport, given not only illegally transported goods, but also in relation to migrants. On this occasion we started to think, we started to think about this project, which would facilitate both traffic to Vidin and Kalotina. It will be really very convenient for citizens who just want to visit the Republic of Bulgaria. The road will be cut short, the time to travel to Belgrade, for example, has convinced me, for hours. That is what I can say, even though I am outside of this activity, outside the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but I have shown interest. That I can inform you of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u148	Thank you, Mr. Rashkov. A line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u149	I thank Minister Rashkov for his answer. It is confirmed that the problem is only in the Bulgarian state. Maybe you're right about those 4 miles, the low value of construction couldn't secure the purchase of bars like the major highways. I'm satisfied with the answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u150	The general policy of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u151	...because this will enable me to request from the new government the opening of the checkpoint, which is in the interest of all Northern Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u152	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Rashkov? There won't be. Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, come in from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria. [[Reply from DPS: Mr. Chairman, the reply!]] You don't have a line here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! First, one of the questions that you were asked today at the beginning of the blitzcontrol asked you why the growth for the third quarter was only 0.4% and you said: inertia system. It, that it is inertial, is, Mr. Prime Minister, only the growth is 4.6%, is not 0.4% if you are watching the third quarter of the third quarter. I am making this agreement on behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria not to come out after the debate that no one has paid attention to what the real data is. They are. They shouldn't be speculated on. Now, on the subject. What do we do with electricity for domestic subscribers since January 1st? What are the measures taken by the office? There's no time! That is, if you are counting on a regular government to be able to resolve this issue quickly, it is naive. There's really no time. In addition to reducing the VAT rate, we have temporarily heard it as your proposal. You're probably suggesting 10% in a few months. What else do you suggest? Because January 1st comes and there shouldn't be an increase in electricity for domestic consumers. Please give the measures you propose as a government. Separately there is a regulator, separately there is a cabinet that can offer its measures, gentlemen, as some of you may know. Next, the next one is for non-bit users. It is disturbing that no measures are proposed for December. You say: yes, for October and November there are compensations, but should not December be excluded from this, because for a possible regular cabinet there will still not be enough time for quick reactions. So I call on you to include the month of December in compensation for non-bit consumers. Resources are available, there are additional revenues in state energy, there is agreement of the Commission, it is obvious how to do it, that is, do not miss the month of December. This is important, and things should be happening in a package with one another. So in summary, Mr. Prime Minister, tell us the specific measures for not increasing the current for domestic subscribers from January 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u154	Thank you. Here you are, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, as you yourself said, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will decide and announce what prices will be for domestic consumers starting January 1st next year. What we are doing in coordination with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is in constant communication with them and various options are being played out how and what will ultimately happen as an option that will be the basis of the Commission's decision on energy and water regulation. We have already been talking about the temporary proposal for value added tax, whether and how it will happen, is a matter to be resolved. The other things that we are currently clearing out for you, a specific measure I will tell you about others I prefer not to comment in detail, because they may not happen, a question of analysis that is being done, the specific measure that I can now report is that there is also a step on which to notify the European Commission and seek their opinion from a point of view whether or not it constitutes State aid. The specific measure is the measure made for non-domestic consumers, is it also valid for electricity distribution companies with regard to their losses, their relevant costs of maintaining the distribution system? The estimates are made, we are ready, including with a retroactive date from 1 October. This will also apply to them, we are just waiting for a letter of notice from the European Commission, which confirms that this measure is relevant to everyone else in terms of the economy, business, other business sites. The effect of this measure will directly affect the final price that the Commission will propose for energy and water regulation from 1 January. How much we can't do right now... It would be speculation if we went into detail and talked in numbers, so let's let the experts do their job. This work continues and accordingly when we have information, I suppose that the good option will be to be informed as a national representation both by the Commission and by the Ministry of Energy, which are working intensively on these topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u157	Mr. Prime Minister, all efforts must be made to not appreciate electricity for household subscribers from January 1st. We all know the KEWRC can't solve this on its own. The government and parliament play a very important role, so I hope that if there is an answer to your question, you will let us know as soon as possible. You also didn't say exactly what a differentiated rate you were offering. Do you have a specific proposal, or are you just at the level of discussion? And the more important question - December - the non-bit subscribers, the whole business, especially the small business we care about, should also receive compensation. You said in October, November there is a procedure, there is a separate money, they are in the process of allocation. But what do we do in December? If your idea is that you are waiting for a regular office, it is not the best solution. Because this regular cabinet will have to start with the budget and other very important things. It's not smart to waste time right now. So I call on you to start a procedure also with regard to receiving compensation for non-bit consumers for December. Tell us specifically this differentiated VAT you offer, do you have more specifics, do you have rates, or are you only at the level of discussion?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dimitrov! Specifically for December. The measure made by the cabinet for October and November can be easily extended to December if the source of funds is known. Let us say very responsibly, and let the Bulgarian citizens hear it, that when the office prepared the measure for October and November, we made an effort and made a very precise assessment of what resources we could have. At the moment, in general, to say this, if it is assumed that what is said to be yes, there are overincomes in energy, it is something very common. The specific overincomes, the relationship between how this money can be transferred to the Bulgarian Energy Holding and respectively from this scheme, which we have foreseen, the Ministry of Energy can have the same way, to provide compensation, is a good question to which, I hope, the new government and parliament together will find an answer. With regard to the specific rate that we foresee, it is 10%. And this is the proposal that we have seen yesterday and, accordingly, we are sending to the European Commission to make in agreement with the local regulations that concern this type of taxation, but of course, this is in advance and the will of the National Assembly will decide what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u160	Thank you, Prime Minister. We move on to the last question from the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers and colleagues! In the current situation where business is facing the wall in view of the restrictive measures, there is an approved programme in the European Union that is called "Conservation of accessibility to digital model certificates' tests. This programme provides funding from the European Union for the tests and testing itself for COVID-19, which certificates provide access to restaurants, shopping malls, cinemas, theaters, concerts. My question to Minister Pekanov is this: what requires the Bulgarian citizen to pay his own tests for which there is approved European funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Ruschev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Pekanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for asking. But I don't think it's that much right for me. After all, the Ministry of Health is responsible for these matters. They have provided in recent months the stocks they have. They are trying to make use of any opportunities through European funding and, as far as I am aware, they are in good contact with the relevant services of the European Commission, which provide similar opportunities both in terms of tests and with regard to drugs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I do not think there is an opportunity that has not been used until the moment for which they are not in contact and do not use, but now more accurately and more specifically the health minister can answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u164	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ruschev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u165	I do not know why you are transferring the issue to the Ministry of Health, given that this is European funding?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ruschev. I guess there won't be a douche. We're running out of blitz control. Let's thank the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers for their participation. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] A well-deserved round of applause. I guess we'll see them one more time next week, though. We are returning to the first item on the agenda.. We are continuing the discussion on the Decision on the adoption of Rules for Remote Participation in the National Assembly meetings. There are two recorded at the time for speech "Professor Mihailov and Alexander Nenkov. I don't see him, but Alexander Nenkov is here. Here you go. I just want to draw attention to the fact that if we don't extend the time for work, we may not get to the vote, but as you think. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I appeal to my colleagues who will take over next week through their vote and support for the next Bulgarian regular government, who want to ignore today's vote! You want to neglect it because you do not give yourself a clear account in my opinion, and I pay attention to you that if you have been in the role of revolutionaries in the last year-and-a-half of the last year, that you have been in the role of revolutionaries, that some of you, without insulting anyone, have been burning masks, denying that there is any such problem at all, then you are already in the role of governors, or that you will be in at least a few days. Not always the decisions are very easy, not always the decisions are popular "There are always two sides of the coin and there are always people who will be against what you will accept in this room, but you have to do it because you are called to be so. You, when you're in charge, are responsible. And stop running away from that responsibility! If, for a rebirth and for my colleagues, I understand it because they have a clear position in time, then I cannot understand what hypocrisy this is for all the other groups, I think that the DPS said they would support this decision for months, months to explain how the green certificate is a good thing, that the only solution to getting out of this situation is vaccination, we are ready to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens, although it is not popular, but we are not ready to limit our own rights?! Why? Why is there such a regulation in the European Parliament? Why do other countries do that? Because they're dumber because they don't appreciate the risk because they think it's a good situation to ignore? Well, no, colleagues, not because of this, but because they believe that this is the only way and I believe it, and our parliamentary group also believes that this is the way out of this situation. It is very important today how you will get out of this sitting.. how you will vote. Citizens cannot have one right and one duty, and the MPs can be with another. This isn't right! Because, colleagues, notice, there are two options. Assuming that we all sincerely wish, with small exceptions, that the Bulgarian population should be vaccinated in its huge percentage so that we can deal with this pandemic, there are two options to get out of this situation: or we are going to make people get vaccinated, to which we are not supporters, I have not heard anyone being a supporter of such an extreme measure, the other option is with a personal example. I'm sorry, but it's absolutely hypocritical and ridiculously uncooperative the calls for a broad campaign, national. But, colleagues, you do not want your own rights to limit, but how do you want a person who looks on the street and sees you vote today, to go, to be stimulated to vaccinate? This means that all the months we have lost because the state has lost extremely valuable time and human lives so that it does not reach the levels to which we in Western Europe to speak, because we are comparing ourselves there, but we are comparing ourselves there only when we are pleased, and when we do not like it, it is not so important! And if we were really responsible, that would be the first thing we would vote on. And I sincerely call on you, because in the couloirs in one way you speak, in another way you will probably vote, I call on everyone, especially those who will manage, will be responsible, those who have to bring the state out specifically in this situation with the COVID-19, must bring the state out of this crisis. And not for Bulgaria to be the last place in Bulgaria should be, as at the beginning, by the way, if you remember when no one was helping the government, because you were revolutionaries then, Bulgaria was referred to as an example for dealing with the situation. Is that right? That's right! Let's, if you want to open up foreign media, let's see if I'm right or wrong. So, colleagues, today I call on everyone, especially the ruling majority, not to hypocrite, but really give the citizens a sign that you believe this and that this is the only way for Bulgaria to come out of this endless spiral, which will eventually expect us, because the low level of vaccination leads to endless doubts about whether to close, whether to close, which naturally leads to its consequences and from an economic, financial point of view, and you will be the ones who will be responsible. So I leave it to your conscience to decide how you will vote, but just so you know, people will be watching today!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u168	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines to that statement? I can't see. Are there any other comments on this point? Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u169	Dear colleagues and you gentlemen from GERB! We can't put the wagon in front of the horse! We cannot allow certification of the work of the MPs by order of an executive minister! All orders cannot concern the work of the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u170	No, we're talking about something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u171	Today you want green certificates, tomorrow you might want to walk with bags on your head, the day after tomorrow you might want to have a lobotomy. Some of them already...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u172	It's urgent.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u173	What we need to do here is to set an example and the example for the Bulgarian people must be this: to allow what is true for Bulgarian MPs to enter and freely exercise our work, profession, the will of the people, the will of our chosen ones, the same thing to allow it to our children, to allow it to our fellow citizens, to allow it in every aspect of our society. [[(Reply from GERB-SDS:]] That's what we need to do, and the example that we need to give is exactly that kind of thing, we need to allow free will, everyone has a head on their shoulders, everyone is judging for themselves, for their own health, for their own children, so this is the right, right position, this is the position that aging protects. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] The vaccination that you are currently claiming is not mandatory is not mandatory, but it is forced. There's this huge pressure. Of course, we here in the National Assembly will resist it, but how do our children resist, how do workers resist, how do people who are concerned about their livelihoods resist? It is them that we must think about when we are shortly voting for the work of the National Assembly not to be restricted by any orders of the executive. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u174	Thank you, Mr. Drenchev. Your group's time is up. A line? Here's a line. First Mr. Bikov. After that, Mr. Gadget. The other groups? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Drenchev, one clarification: we are not telling you here to follow some order of the executive power. We propose a decision to Parliament to comply with these rules, which all others who comply with the green certificate comply with, that is what we say. We will not obey the Minister's orders or the executive's orders. We will simply show some goodwill to show that rules also apply to us in our workplace, as any person who for any reason does not want to get a green certificate will have the opportunity to participate in Parliament meetings online and vote, and even speak, so this is our proposal. Otherwise, I agree with you. If we consider it necessary that the green certificate should not act here, let it simply drop, this is what we say, let it drop and let those who will now vote against our proposal vote on yours afterwards. That's what we're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u176	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Gazhev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Drenchev, first of all, although the debate is a little freaking out that it is not for or against vaccination. This is a completely different topic. The debate isn't about or against the green certificate, I think we've sorted it out a few times. Here the debate is about the remote vote and how it will actually happen access to the remote vote. By the way, the authors or architects rather of the health certificate policy and of all the measures were just here and you sent them with applause. The Health Minister, who is the author of all orders, could be here tomorrow to defend these policies of his if you had put him in parliamentary control. Unfortunately, you didn't, so you could really crucify him tomorrow if you didn't agree with his policies. You didn't. Looking at next week, it'll be another health minister to see his policies. But from now on, it is mainly about whether we, as MPs, will comply with the rules that apply to absolutely all Bulgarian citizens. Thousands of Bulgarian citizens were vaccinated to go to work. Thousands of Bulgarian citizens every three days make some kind of test to go to work. And here some of you behave as God-selected, that is, not to apply these rules to them. The idea is that what applies to all other Bulgarian citizens should ultimately apply to us. The other would be big... not to say a bad word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u178	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. You have the floor for the back if there are no other lines. Let's finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u179	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u180	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Drenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u181	Let me remind you that the order for the green certificate has not been dropped to us along with Moses' tablets on the ground. It was invented by some minister, in some cabinet, and certainly cannot be a basis for any restrictions of the legislative power.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-09.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Drenchev. Now, as there are those who wish to speak and the discussion will obviously continue, but the time is now 14.00, today's meeting must end, and perhaps the Conference of Presidents will specify whether, as we voted, it allows us to continue tomorrow, or whether it will have to be submitted again to the Programme for next week. Tomorrow at 9:00 we continue with parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
