ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Dear Members, from today the National Assembly will now work through the computerised voting system. Until the biometrics of the new MPs are removed, voting cards will be voted on. Please register. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Draft Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: "1." Hearing of the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and the level and structure of the fiscal reserve as of 31 March 2021. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. Hearing of the Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the following issues concerning state and public interests: what are the cash holdings in the state budget and how their development is planned by the end of the year. Importer Hristo Ivanov, People's Representative. 3. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of public municipal hospitals and the appointments to the public administration, regulatory authorities and undertakings in more than 50% state participation. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on certain actions of the Council of Ministers in resignation. Importers suppose Maya Manolova and a group of Members of the National Assembly supposed to point one for Thursday 22 April 2021. 4. Draft Decision on the repeal of the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2021. Importers 5. Draft decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Importer....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importers Hristo Ivanov and a group of MPs; Iva Miteva and a group of MPs; Maya Manolova and a group of MPs; Hristo Ivanov, Antoaneta Tsoneva and Ivaylo Mirchev; Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs; Nikolay Hadjigenov and a group of MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. Importers are Iva Miteva and a group of Members of the National Assembly, point 2 for Friday 23 April 2021. 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u2	I have a proposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u3	Then, after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u4	Vote 208 MPs: 191 against 14, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u5	Mrs. President, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we have a question and we insist that the bills submitted by us a week ago be included in the work of the committees and in the work of the Chamber accordingly. Why? I'll motivate myself. The laws we import are oriented towards solving two urgent problems. One is to limit the possibility of spending from the SUV window, as it became popular because, while we are here meeting and solving issues related to, for example, electoral legislation, these spending continue. Only last week at a meeting of the Council of Ministers 200 million were spent. Today, in the meeting of the Council of Ministers, there is a point for changes in the approved expenditure on policy areas, budget programmes in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, which is extremely worrying. Our goal is, was and continues to be, to build this model and this way of managing the state and the finances. One of the quick and urgent steps is to adopt the amendments to the Public Finance Act that we have tabled and have been in the Ministry for at least 10 days. There, we have imposed restrictions on the Prime Minister to spend promiscuous money without passing through the National Assembly a principled, state policy! Alas, you keep this law of logs somewhere neither in the committees nor today will be watched, and during that time it will continue to dig into power. Secondly, the laws we have introduced are also urgent and measures-oriented for people, households, young families, children and adults. We insist, if necessary, that committee chairmen hold extraordinary meetings and consider our bills. Throw them away if you want, but watch them! These are: the Family Aid Act, which helps young families and children in the crisis; the Pension Refund Act, which you, too, have had in your programmes. I say again: it is your will whether you will approve them, but we insist that they be included under the Rules of Procedure in the work of the committees and in the work of the Chamber, because by promising something to the Bulgarian citizens before elections, we insist on fulfilling it after elections. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Nino, there is a procedure in the Rules how to make proposals to include a item on the agenda. Oral proposals according to art. 53, para. 4 of the Rules are inadmissible. That is why I accept your proposal. If the committees consider the relevant bills this week, I will do my best to discuss it at the Conference of Presidents and propose an inclusion on the agenda. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u7	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, you, as President, first of all, must allocate them to the agenda of the committees so that they can enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u8	Mr. Prodanov, all the bills that have been submitted to the National Assembly until this morning are allocated to the leading committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u9	Why aren't they on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u10	Because there's a rule of law procedure, and they go through the committees first. There are deadlines for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u11	They're not on the committee's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u12	Well, this is the decision of the chairman of the committee concerned on what the draft agenda should be. Members of the Commission may make a proposal at the meetings of the Commission to include the relevant drafts as a item on the agenda of the relevant meeting. Thank you. Mr. Dilov, on the program?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u13	Yeah, yeah, on the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u14	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u15	Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing in the Parliamentary Week Program at the beginning of Friday's plenary day that the Bulgarian Parliament mark the anniversary of the Armenians' mass destruction in 1915. I am making this proposal now to spare the inconvenience of some colleagues from spontaneous leaving the hall and pushing, as we saw when it was an attempt to honor the memory of those who died in the attack at the church of St. Sunday. I propose that the parliamentary groups themselves choose whether they will make declarations, whether they will make simple statements, but I think that the Bulgarian Parliament is obliged to mark this day, with at least a minute of silence, because the fate of the Armenians is part of our own historical destiny. They have the same fate as the Bulgarians from Thrace, from Adrianople, from Macedonia. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u16	Thank you, Mr. Dilov. Mr. Dilov, I will also make a comment to you, as this is an oral proposal off the agenda. You offer inclusion as a point... For the one-minute silence there is a procedure how to do it according to art. 53, para. 7 of the Rules, so please apply the Rules. Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing to include the cameras in view of the fundamental importance of today's working day of the National Assembly and of BNT 1 as well as the BNR, and I would allow myself an appeal to all of us to stick to the good tone. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u18	Thank you. Is there a MP who disagrees with the proposal so made? I won't. I put the proposal to the vote. Vote 221 MPs: for 219, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Thank you. I'm asking for a direct transmission. Mrs. Manolova, please come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The National Recovery and Sustainability Plan allows more than 12 billion to be invested in Bulgaria. lv. European grants and more than 9 billion. lv. low-interest, profitable, practically interest-free loans which, unfortunately, are currently absent from the project for recovery and sustainability. The major world economies of China, America, have already implemented similar plans. Most of the Member States of the European Union are already ready and submitting their national plans. Only in Bulgaria because of the misunderstanding between absorption and recovery and because of the destructive behavior of the Bulgarian government, the Recovery and Sustainability Plan is still under discussion. The plan must be submitted to the European institutions by 30 April and then its approval by the European Council will take place by the end of July, which will allow the funds to start the projects to be practically available immediately. It is not the same, of course, whether the funds will be available for investment in July, whether in October or next year. It is not the same whether the support Bulgaria can receive will be in full volume or cut. These are funds for recovery and for modernization of the economy...... for green transition....................that would give a significant impetus to the development of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian economy. And, yes, as Deputy Prime Minister Donchev said, that is 12.5 billion. BGN, which are only part of the 60 billion leva, which will enter Bulgaria, which Bulgarian households and Bulgarian enterprises expect. But these are funds whose investment can begin now, immediately, literally from July. In fact, Bulgarian enterprises are already ready to start investing the first 650 million together with the Ministry of Economy. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Bulgarian enterprises expect the Bulgarian government to be organized immediately to provide these funds. That is why on the very first day, literally in the first hour of the work of this National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group. The National Plan for Reconstruction and Sustainability to be submitted to Parliament and to begin its discussion and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to report on the readiness of the Bulgarian government to submit this plan to the European institutions in a timely manner. The whole responsibility of the operation for the consideration of this plan in parliament did not prevent Prime Minister Borisov from using his typical tricks in order not to appear in the Bulgarian Parliament, but nevertheless the National Assembly should be at the height of expectations, of the responsibility that both business and Bulgarian households require of us something that Borisov obviously cannot respond to. And, no, the Bulgarian Parliament will not leave, the Bulgarian Parliament will not take sick leave, the Bulgarian Parliament will not escape its post, but it will make it impossible for the plan to be submitted in due time to the European institutions and to be the best for the Bulgarian economy and for the Bulgarian households. And, yes, the parliamentary group is standing up! Gourds out!.. will insist the parliament to take this responsibility, even though it is the responsibility of the Bulgarian government. That is why we asked for the plan to be tabled and it was submitted on the first day of the Parliament's work.. something which in the 44th National Assembly never happened. And, yes, employers, trade unions, business, Bulgarian citizens, whole sectors and industries have huge remarks, huge objections related to the content of this plan, with its focus on activities that are not relevant to the strategic objectives for modernization, for the green economy, for digitization, which simply represent the familiar schemes of the Boris Government for resource absorption. 600 million. lv. for sanitization. Styrofoam did not change and will not change the Bulgarian economy, will not turn it into modern, digitized and green. For renovations, interest-free loans could be used, as the European institutions actually provide. Second example.. 700 mln. lv. for health care. Only 700 million. lv. For health care! And, notice, of that, 60 million. lv. For the Ministry of Interior Hospital, 56 million lv. For phone 112 and the remaining nearly 600 million for hospital repairs, i.e. renovations again, Styrofoam. And I ask you, gentlemen and ladies of GERB and the Bulgarian government, this phone 112 for another 56 million. lv. Is it going to connect us to Mars?! And where's the prevention and prevention money? Where's the hospital money? Where's the emergency and emergency money? Where's the e-health money? Where is the money for tourism, transport, to deal with the demographic crisis? And why, if it is to be given to the Ministry of Interior and to other hospitals, there is no lev to the National Children's Hospital? Such questions can be asked a lot about different sectors. And today in this plenary week, as there is no time, before the National Assembly stands the dilemma whether to oblige and allow the government to present to the European institutions this ineffective, this mediocre Plan, or to rework it? This decision will be taken by the National Assembly. But the parliamentary group is standing up! The Goons Out!Supposes the Plan to be completed, and what is rational and strong in it to be used. The funds provided for the past and the analog measures and activities should be redirected to the funds for technological modernisation, for green transition, for digitalisation; provision for measures to control the demographic collapse, measures to overcome the inequalities that are the biggest scourge for the Bulgarian state today, with innovation heading towards business and not to create another administration - megaagency on innovation. Because only through the transition to a high-tech economy and an added-value economy can an increase in the incomes of Bulgarian citizens be ensured...................................... Goons out! Ladies and gentlemen, we will make our proposals for changes in the Recovery and Sustainability Plan in due time, but we insist that the 45th National Assembly reach an emergency agreement to further the National Plan. We must reach economic and public consensus on the implementation of the Recovery and Sustainability Plan by the end of April, in a form that guarantees the national interest, guarantees the interests of the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian households. Therefore, we will insist that the review of the Plan will enter into the Programme of the Bulgarian National Assembly this week. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. I give the floor to Mr. Hristo Ivanov on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u21	Thank you, Madam President. In recent days, we have seen an argument about who the parties of the protest were. Photos are uploaded like they're applying for the status of worthy wrestlers. Naturally, the topic of Rosenets came up on it, the Prime Minister spoke on it, the DPS spoke on it, the BSP spoke on it. Meanwhile, attempts are being made to form a cabinet. And here, let me say that the question is not to have any office with more Dutch than Rutte had. The question is that the National Assembly can produce the change that citizens want. The question is not to argue who sat at the protests, but to be able to show change in terms of what Bulgarian citizens expect. It's not just about talking crazy about Rosenets, it's about really seeing that this topic doesn't come off the agenda. And I didn't bring it up, I raised the Prime Minister, the DPS raised it, BSP raised it, because this case is really emblematic. This case is really emblematic that in Bulgaria there are people who are above the law, people who are served by the institutions for which the institutions close their eyes.Yes, Mr. Nankov, I see that you are squinting your eyes, and continue to have a yacht port in Bulgaria, which is registered as agricultural property at sea. This thing continues to exist in Bulgarian legal peace! The aim of the "Democratic Bulgaria" is to focus on the need for a deep change not only to replace Borisov with someone else, but deep, systemic change, the factors leading to systemic corruption in Bulgaria. We have made an amendment to the Constitution. Prof. Atanas Slavov is available to every parliamentary group that wants to get acquainted with our proposals, we collect signatures. This process is not just any procedure, it is a test of who really wants to talk about reform of justice and the prosecution in Bulgaria and who does not. Professor Slavov is available, ready to contact anyone who wants to get into a debate on this thing. In the end, we will tell the voters what reaction there was. In the same way, we begin collecting signatures for a committee of inquiry on the case "Rosenets". Let him see the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian society what is the truth about this Disneyland of Corruption. Let's see how the institutions closed down... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for ……]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u22	Please, no lines from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u23	Look at you. Let's see how the institutions closed their eyes, how they didn't do checks, how with their help they were registered objects that couldn't be registered! It will be very interesting which of these parliamentary groups, who otherwise speak on this subject, will give signatures for the establishment of this committee. It'll be interesting how they get involved in her work. My colleague Dimitar Naydenov, who was the person who was actually working on this topic, is available. Anyone who wants to give one of the forty-eight signatures can do it with him. We didn't leave on purpose to gather them in groups, because we want to see who will sign them. This is important for the Bulgarian voters. The first job of this committee will be to call the Bulgarian investigative journalists, for example, from "Bivol" to tell about their long work in relation to this case. Let's also learn about police operations. Here are the resigning minister and the former Minister of Interior "this operation, which was organised in an extremely provocative way, let this truth be made clear too. Let's see the truth about another object that is located nearby the port of Lukoil. Let us reach into this wound and show the Bulgarian society whether there is the will for real change in this Parliament, or we will just talk about how to replace Borisov with some straw man, behind whom everything will go back to the way it was. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I give the floor to Mr. Bikov. On behalf of a group, Mr. Bikov? [[(Reply by National Representative Toma Bikov:]] TOMA BIKOV [[GERB-SDS]] Madam President, honourable Members! To begin with, we have already collected 48 signatures from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, and in five minutes we will submit a proposal for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to establish the facts and circumstances of the situation in Rossenets. Anyone who wants can support it and sign our proposal. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Dear colleagues! On Friday, the core of the new parliamentary majority was established, which emerged with the election for president of the 45th National Assembly. In this new parliamentary majority are included the parliamentary groups of "There is such a people".. Democratic Bulgaria................................................................................................ Goons out! It functions purposefully and organised not on the basis of its political and public requests, not on the basis of ideological and conceptual similarities, but on the basis of common behind-the-scenes actions. Therefore, we will not focus on the words of the representatives of these formations, but on their deeds. During the Friday meeting of the National Assembly, the newly formed majority elected its presidents of the three most important committees in parliament. There is such a people, a Democratic Bulgaria, a DPS, BSP and a stand up! Mr. Radostin Vassilev of the Council of Legal Affairs has been elected as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. With the votes of the same parties as the chairman of the Health Commission Alexander Simidchiev was elected by "Democratic Bulgaria." Most clearly this new majority, however, was evident in the vote for President of the Committee on Budget and Finance when BSP decided not to support the candidate of It turned out that in the first vote, the parties of the protest there is such a people.... Democratic Bulgaria........................................................................................... They couldn't get over the quorum. This happened at the second vote after Mr. Yordan Tsonev of the DPS made a call check procedure which established a new quorum. Thus Georgi Ganev was elected president of one of the most important committees in the parliament with 45 votes from Goons out, and 24 votes from the DPS. We abstained from 66 MPs from GERB-SDS and 38 MPs from BSP. The conclusion of this result is only one: without the support of the DPS Mr. Georgi Ganev would not have been elected President of the Budget Committee. Dear colleagues, we are far from the illusion that these political actions are the result of spontaneous enthusiasm among the MPs of the. Goons out! We also do not believe in the explanations that the candidates of the parties of the protest were supported by the DPS because they were the only ones indisputable. We recall that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ proposed to the President of the Health Commission the undisputed candidacy of Professor Grigor Gorchev, which was rejected by this same majority. That is why we believe the political facts and not your explanations. And the political facts so far are symptomatic of the way in which you are preparing to manage the country and raise a number of questions, for example: when and at what cost did you agree on support from the DPS; what is the common idea base of The lack of an answer to these important questions leads to a series of other more important issues such as: are there behind-the-scenes negotiations for forming a government with the mandate of..There is such a people and with the support of................................................................................. What are the negotiators; what is the logic of the behavior of "Democratic Bulgaria" to reject at all the idea of public talks with GERB, which offer a clear structure, composition and programme of government and to announce a complete readiness for talks and a partial readiness to support the hypothetical government of "There is such a people" whose structure, composition and program have not yet been made public? Are you ripe for the idea of Mr. Mustafa Karadaye, who has been proposing for several years to form a programme government that will become a temporary front for political irresponsibility? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] For the past 30 years, we have remembered two such governments - that of Luben Berov and that of Plamen Oresharski. Moreover, we remember how these two governments ended, what were the economic and social consequences of them and who paid the price for irresponsibility and timelessness. If you don't remember all this, you can ask your colleagues from BSP who certainly do. Dear MPs of the new majority! Although we won the elections by 8% ahead of the second political power, we "GERB" are ready to be in opposition. At such moments as the replacement of the people's vote and withdrawal from the election requests for transparency and the fight against the backstage in this Chamber must remain someone who will point out and disclose political facts. We are confident of our powers and capabilities because behind us is the victory and support of over 800,000 Bulgarian citizens. We are facing loss, lies and hatred. So we are confident that we will also win this battle, whose outcome today seems to be foretold. We warn you that the political price you are about to pay for lying to your own voters will be impossible for most of you. The replacement of the democratic choice of the Bulgarian people will not be forgotten for a long time, as the replacement from the times of Berov and Oresharski has not been forgotten. Do not slave to false illusions that populist legislative initiatives will be able to hide secret agreements, irresponsibility and consequences of them. We'll be here not to let that happen. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Here is put in a very well written mentoring statement the question of the new majority in parliament, the question of the backstage, the question of voters, the vote of voters, the ideology, on what basis, on what principles. We at the DPS will very easily answer this tone and these questions. Firstly, we are a party that, before democracy, wants democracy. Since 10 November, our roots, our parents, our ancestors fought for it. Some of them are still alive. Secondly, immediately after the changes, the DPS has always followed a very clear and principled position on NATO and then the European Union, and has never cheated on this position. The DPS has always made clear what policy line follows. This is what we do in both the previous and the previous and the current National Assembly. Immediately after the elections, on election night, our chairman in a statement to the media said: "We rely on voters' vote as a categorically demanded desire for change. Deploy GERB by power! That's the change! There's no other change! Three new parties, which said so, entered the Bulgarian Parliament. Some have been before, but they have missed several parliamentary publications, and two are quite new with a clear position not in the couloirs and not behind the scenes first, and, secondly, we said after our meeting of our Central Operational Bureau and a decision that we will not support any government of the parties that did not win 800,000 votes, Mr. Bikov, but lost 300,000 votes, and here they have lost so much that I do not even want to comment on it out of respect for the socialists. [[shows to "BSP for Bulgaria"]] These parties are not going to be supported by us because they lost the elections and 20 MPs and 300,000 votes you lost. This is your victory. [[Replications from the MPs Desislava Atanasova and Tsveta Karayancheva.]] It's not how we read it. We read it as a vote of the voters of the Bulgarian voters for change. Therefore, not behind the scenes, but here in the National Assembly, at the opening of the National Assembly, the President of the party and the parliamentary group Mr. Mustafa Karadayi said clearly: "We will not support a proposed cabinet by GERB and BSP, but we will support a cabinet by one of the three or three new parties without participating in it. " We have supported and supported the decisions to create... [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, is this noise in the room right? If it's right, tell me. I can stop talking, and I can scream. There's no problem at all. I think we should talk normally. As we listened to you, so do you. We supported the creation of three committees, there is no backstage. We have not supported any cabinet, no cabinet talks have been held, no management talks have been conducted, no one has had any talks with the DPS. The DPS follows its decisions of its collective bodies, and I have just told you what they are, and we will continue to follow them. We will support the three parties in their efforts to form a majority in the Bulgarian Parliament, in their efforts to form a cabinet, but for clear purposes. We said what these goals were, we said the time frame of such a cabinet. There's no backroom, no negotiations, no price. And when you talk to me about a price, Mr. Bikov, I have to tell you about the price, because I have a memory much better than your experience. Not those who were with DPS in the government burned, but those who were with GERB burned. And now let me remind you. The Reformation Block went to nothingness after one term with you. The ABC went to nothingness after a term with you. In the last parliament, where is the entire Patriotic bloc? Anywhere you can see him? Everyone you hugged at the station. You're the most toxic party. [[Applause from DPS and ICN]] The most toxic party Bulgarian political life has ever seen! You're toxic in government, you're toxic in opposition! We remember 2013 when you were knocking on banks, blaming every bill with 60.70 speeches per member. Colleagues, prepare yourselves to do so, and this is how they will behave. They behave the same way when they are in power and when they are in opposition. And here it was very accurately stated that this is a toxic party that needs to be removed from the government. This is the line we're going to follow. There are no backrooms, no backroom arrangements, no cabinet arrangements, and no cabinet participation, but we will support the new parties to form a cabinet and to walk the way towards eliminating GERB from power. And after the next election, we'll do the same thing again. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS and IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I give the floor to Mr. Toshko Yordanov of the parliamentary group of the "There is such a people."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u28	I'll be brief. It is good for Bulgarian citizens to know what is happening in this Parliament. Before a meeting there is a Conference of Presidents where the agenda is set. Then we enter the Chamber and find that parliamentary parties are beginning to read declarations, and the tip of the stupidity was GERB's declaration. [[(Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva:]] I can do that. That's my personal opinion. It was full of untruths in there. And if you're wondering why this House voted like this two days ago... [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u29	Please, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u30	...that's because there's no political party that even wants to touch you. [[Applause from IHN.]] Everyone in this room, who is outside GERB, should know that if you vote anything with GERB, you will be a traitor to civil society. [[Applause from IHN.]] There's no field to think about here. Are we going to set up an office or not? First we will see what GERB will do, then the procedure will come to us, then you will see what we will do. If it happens to be a third term, that is, it will come if we happen to happen, and they, if we go to a third term, the one who takes it, it is nice to think about what it will do, because in this middle part of the room, they could even support any of you. If it comes to that, you should be aware that this means a coalition with those who really need to be placed at the bottom of political life for everything they have done to Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u31	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I give the floor to Mrs. Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u32	Dear Bulgarian citizens, the change started after the elections on April 4th, but in no case has it been completed and has not been made. In this complex situation we are in, BSP's position is the easiest, clear, principled and consistent. For four years.. five times a vote of distrust against the government of Borisov, leaving parliament because of the violation of democracy and parliamentaryism, 1323 bills or proposals on bills, alternative to the policies of GERB. These are facts that cannot be ignored and are not forgotten. So any attempts to suggest that BSP and GERB can do something together are baseless and do not rest on objective facts, history and truth in the last four years. Obviously, however, there is now some dislocation of layers and ambiguity in the positions of some parties. Dear colleagues from the new political entities, for us GERB's policy from now on is to create chaos, instability and uncertainty in the state. Do not succumb to these provocations, which also suit you here. Borisov's behaviour is clear.. is also traditionally inconsistent and will continue to entertain us with sketches. The new political subjects cannot do it alone, you do not have enough votes, but at the same time you are attacking BSP and refusing to extend your hand to BSP because you believe that we are a party to the status quo. At this point, you are manifesting an obvious lack of political wisdom. We have never interfered with the behaviour of other parties and we have not given advice, but since you have all challenged us in a row now, we will speak our minds. First, in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, we said: "United Patriarchs are GERB's partner and the hidden managing partner is DPS. [[Voices from DPS: "Eee! "]] Four years we've been doing this from this tribune, that's a clear position. DPS are saying today: "We will not manage with GERB and will not support GERB and BSP because they are parties who lost the elections. " - Well, they ruled with GERB and with BSP. The negatives of this are GERB and BSP, and now they are going to rule with you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u33	Please, no yelling from the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u34	Think about what's waiting for you. No, dear colleagues of the DPS, by pulling him by the tail, you will get the truth. I'm moving on. While we are dealing with this, what happens to the real life of Bulgaria? For the seventh time, hear the voice of reason. As long as there's this pointless argument going on here, this guy is digging himself in, and you're gonna bring him back in full force and I'm gonna tell you why. Borisov, I mean. You say we want all the elimination of GERB. Okay, except for this group. Words, words, words behind which there is no concrete action, and even vice versa! And do not claim that BSP wants to break the anti-GERB majority. BSP just works, don't talk. You've rejected our proposal for a moratorium on your will. On Monday, they replaced all the energy and hours after that, Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) asked for a 17% increase in prices. It's the real life outside of the house, 17%, while we're making accusations here about who's who and what's fighting for. On Monday, for 24 hours, Borisov here will leave a clamp and will add perhaps with whom, with whom, although it is not right to say literary with who, they have mastered all agriculture. Do you ever wonder why they start with energy and agriculture?! Where are the funds in the country? And so on Monday after all the energy companies replaced the management of the six state-owned forest enterprises for 24 hours. If you'd listened to us last week, without measuring who's right, without canceling these disputes whether at this point or at that point putting the moratorium in, this wouldn't have happened. The DPS will now replicate me and say: "No, it would have happened because these contests started a long time ago. " - No, there wasn't, because the lawyers know that the end of the competitions is the entry into the Agency. That's what they did in 24 hours, so we don't believe in words, we believe in deeds. We've offered you action, let's stop it. You don't want the new political entities. But look at what is happening and allow me to assume that both in energy and agriculture the footage is not only Borisov's. Allow me to assume that there are also the footage of the DPS. That's what they did in 24 hours, unfortunately, with your help. I don't know why you're doing this out of inexperience, out of stubbornness that BSP suggested, on purpose, I don't know, you know, but it's a mistake. You didn't want us to stop the concessions. Do you know what's happening at the Council of Ministers right now? Here is now I will tell you: there is a concession for mining of underground wealth in the locality of Oreshaka. Currently there is a concession for mining of underground wealth in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, Haskovo; currently there is a concession for the seaside of Kabakum. In Varna, here we are fighting here who is greater and who wants to remove GERB as it is not clear. Again, we will not see today's moratorium. Well, why? Who continues and allows Borisov to dig in and enrich himself at the expense of the Bulgarian people? We're not! As you can see, not just in words, but in documents and actions for 10 days, we insist on a simple thing. We will talk for a long time about the Election Code, we will be doing the Committee on Revision, we will do the Commission on "Rosenets" well. Action must be done, people! He's mocking us right now, he's acting until, let me say, you're not gonna join this choir, scratch your tongues. Our suggestions are on the table. It is your decision to lift the hand or press the button, where you will position yourself, because it is one thing to come out here and speak beautiful words, another is when it comes to a decision, to disprove your own words. And don't blame it on BSP! Five times we've given you a hand without asking for anything. We don't want any posts. We don't want ministers. We don't want anything. We want this model not only to be cracked, as happened on April 4th, we want it removed and not to be able to come back. You don't accept this proposal. We generally, consistently, clearly and categorically continue on this path. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u35	Thank you. Okay, I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is clear and modest. Please continue on the agenda, because I think we are dealing no longer with speeches by parliamentary groups, but with a general political debate on topics relating to who is the greater hero in slaughtering the dragon. I ask you to stop this, I ask you to act on the agenda that has been established and stop looking for who has been negotiating, secret conversations, who has been at TSM, and not to mention other ways in which conversations are being held. I think everything is clear and transparent and is happening in this room. Mrs. Ninova, I don't know in four working days how you imported something ten days ago, there's probably a way. But I really don't want to be petty. I want us to really deal with what we have sworn to the people, and let us continue in this spirit. Thank you. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Just to remind you that you asked for the word in the manner of conduct and did not indicate the specific violation that I have committed so that I could explain it to you. In this case, it was about statements on behalf of parliamentary groups, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure in the next language. Thank you. Drafts and drafts of decisions submitted from 15 April 2021 to 20 April 2021: Bill amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. Importer "Iva Miteva" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer Hristo Ivanov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer "Iva Miteva" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It's a bill for old people. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. The Committee on Health, assisting the Committee on Budget and Finance, is the lead. Draft decision to award the Council of Ministers to submit to the National Assembly the National Recovery and Sustainability Plan under the Recovery and Sustainability Mechanism established by Regulation (EU) 2021/241. The representatives of the People's Representatives Maya Manolova, Maria Kapon and Tatiana Doncheva. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. The representatives of the National Assembly maya Manolova and a group of MPs. The lead is the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Roads Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Hristo Ivanov and Atanas Petrov Atanasov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer Hristo Ivanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Atanas Slavov and Atanas Atanas Atanasov. The lead is the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Atanas Slavov and Atanas Atanas Atanasov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Atanas Slavov and Atanas Atanas Atanasov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers Hristo Ivanov, Antoaneta Tsoneva, Ivaylo Mirchev. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Administrative Procedure Code. Importer Hristo Ivanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Atanas Atanasov and Hristo Ivanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is leading, supporting the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to supplement the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The representatives of the National Assembly Atanas Atanasov and Hristo Ivanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Hristo Ivanov and Atanas Atanasov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on Administration. Importer Hristo Ivanov, People's Representative. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. The representatives of the National Assembly are Hristo Ivanov and Atanas Atanasov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer Hristo Ivanov, People's Representative. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Supporting is the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft National Recovery and Sustainability Plan pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2021/241 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing a recovery and sustainability mechanism. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences. The representatives of the National Assembly maya Manolova, Valentina Vasileva, Maria Kapon and Rumen Yonchev. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act. Importers suppose Nikolai Hadzhigenov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and for overcoming the consequences. Importers "Maya Manolova, Valentina Vassileva, Maria Kapon and Rumen Yonchev." The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on the granting of concessions, the sale of state and municipal hospitals and the appointments to the public administration, regulatory authorities and undertakings with over 50 per cent State participation. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on certain actions of the Council of Ministers in resignation. Importer Maya Manolova, Victoria Vasileva, Hristo Dochev, Zlatomira Karageorgieva, Ivaylo Kozhuharov, Maria Kapon and Nikolai Hadzhigenov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. Importer "Maya Manolova" and group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. A bill to supplement the Customs Act. The representatives of the National Assembly are Hristo Ivanov and Nadezhda Yordanova. There's a distribution coming up. Law on the insolvency of natural persons. Importer supplier Maya Manolova. There's a distribution coming up. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Aid Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Maya Manolova, Teodora Peneva, Georgi Georgiev, Tatyana Doncheva and Hristo Dochev. The Committee on Health is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importers "Maya Manolova and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. Draft decision on the cancellation of the Easter vacation of the National Assembly for 2020. Importers suppose Hristo Dochev and a group of MPs. Let's continue with: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE PHINANIC KIRYL ANNANIUM ON THE BASIC THING. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF BULGARIA FOR 2021 AND THE GOVERNMENT AND STRUCTURING OF THE FISCAL I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. According to the agreement reached by the Conference of Presidents, I give the floor to the proposer to recall it within two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we will begin to address an extremely important issue about the present and future of the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian state. This is the issue of the fiscal reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria. Of course, this is not the only indicator in the system of indicators of macroeconomic equilibrium or imbalance, but it is extremely important from the point of view of what the new Bulgarian government eventually inherits, whichever it is, is either professional or regular, and what can be done by the end of the year. The fiscal reserve is, in fact, the government's current account, which uses the fiscal reserve funds to pay off its daily, weekly and reserve operations, which, however, is used in certain cases of natural disasters, of changes in the business cycle and the occurrence of an unexpected economic crisis caused by external or internal factors by pandemics, as is the case at the moment. And we are worried that there are extremely large, I would say cruel, fluctuations in the level of the fiscal reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria. Let us recall that under the Public Finance Act and the Budget Act, by 31 December this year the level of the fiscal reserve should be at least four and a half billion. The concern is that at the moment, according to preliminary data, we will hear the latest data from Mr. Minister, the fiscal reserve level has dropped below 6 billion. BGN, which means that it has decreased almost twice in the last six-seven months. We worry because in this fiscal reserve its structure is extremely interesting and important. Inside is the Silver Fund, inside are the funds of the National Insurance Institute and NHIF. According to our data, the available funds are just over 1 billion. lv. This is extremely dangerous because we are not aware of how the global and European economy will develop in the coming months, how things will develop with the pandemic and what additional costs should the Bulgarian government make, how the possible withdrawal of new loans will be located in time under the Budget Act for 2021. Since, unfortunately, the Public Finance Act does not make a requirement for a detailed description of the structure of the fiscal reserve, so we ask the Minister of Finance Mr. Ananiev to brief us on what the actual situation is. I would like to make one more clarification about the past fiscal reserve needs to be made on the basis of a comparison with government debt, as I would remind you that in any withdrawal of government debt, this debt goes to the fiscal reserve while it is being used. So please don't speculate. We will also have further questions about the ratio between the government debt taken from any government and the level of the fiscal reserve. Therefore, Madam President and honourable Members, we want to get reliable and clear information from the Ministry of Finance, from the current Bulgarian government: what is the real level of the fiscal reserve, what is its structure? What are they, dear colleague Ananiev, the upcoming payments in the next one or two months and are there risks for the Bulgarian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. I give the floor to Mr. Ananiev to inform the National Assembly on the issues at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! Allow me in the first appearance before you to congratulate you with the selection of the leadership and wish the entire National Assembly a successful job in the difficult legislative activity. I was asked the fiscal reserve question first, or should I drive properly? If I have to start, I have to start with the budget and then the fiscal reserve. In relation to the issues raised, I will briefly present the basic parameters for the ongoing implementation of the Consolidated fiscal programme by the end of March. The information is prepared on the basis of preliminary data from the monthly accounts of the chief authorising officers with a budget, and the final data will be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance at the end of next week. Here are the main budgetary parameters. According to preliminary data, revenue, aid and donations under the Consolidated fiscal programme as of March 2021 amounted to 11 billion. The Commission $100,000. lv. 23,8% of the annual estimate. Compared with the same period of the previous year, when the revenues in the budget were not yet affected by the negative effects of the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in Bulgaria, the revenues as of March 2021 increased by 370 million. $800,000. BGN, which represents a growth of 3.4%. The total amount of tax revenue, including income from insurance contributions, amounts to 8 billion. The Commission Three hundred thousand. BGN, which represents 23.8% of the tax revenue planned for the year. Revenues from taxes and social security contributions increased by 249 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. in relation to those reported for the first quarter of the previous year. Tax revenues have an impact on the legislative changes adopted in the deadlines for the submission of annual tax returns for 2020 under the Corporate Income Tax Act, as well as on corporate tax, cost tax, revenue tax of budgetary enterprises, as well as revenue tax operated by ships, the schedule has been moved from 31 March to 30 June 2021. In 2020, in view of the rapid measures taken relating to the beginning of the pandemic, the time limit under the CCCI was also extended, but a part of the taxable persons had already submitted tax returns for 2019 as well as paid the countervailing contributions to corporate tax within the prescribed period 31 March 2020. Direct tax revenues amount to 1 billion. The Commission 200,000. BGN, or 18.1% of those provided for in the estimates for the year. The proceeds from indirect taxes amount to 4 billion. 402 million. $700,000. lv. The amount of VAT revenue is estimated at 25,8% of those estimated for the year, with a VAT revenue of 3 billion. 126 million. $800,000. lv. The income from social and health insurance contributions is 2 billion. The Commission $800,000. BGN, which represents 24.2% of the estimates for the year. Bulgaria introduced some of the most liberal regimes in terms of limiting businesses' activities, which is why we have a good collection of tax revenues. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the The Commission $100,000. BGN, which represents 27.5% of the annual estimates and the income from aid and donations amounted to 703 million. $700,000. lv. The cost of the consolidated fiscal programme as at March 2021 amounted to 11 billion. The Commission Five hundred thousand. BGN, which is 22.8% of the annual size. In comparison, the KFP costs for the same period of 2020 amounted to 9 billion. Fifty-fifty thousand. £900. The significant increase in expenditure in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the same period of the previous year is linked, on the one hand, to the lower base in 2020, where there is a significant reduction in the cost of combating the pandemic of COVID-19, while in the first quarter of 2021 these costs are substantial, and on the other hand, of income and social policy policy laid down in the approved Budget Act for this year. The most significant contribution to cost increases in the first quarter of 2021 has the costs associated with measures to combat COVID-19 and to address the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. The costs incurred under measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and the treatment of the sick, measures to support business and social measures for the period from 1 January 2021 to 31 March 2021 amount to 1 billion. 345 million. BGN, which represents about 1% of gross domestic product, including 0,6 billion. lv. to support households, 0,4 billion lv. For government authorities entrusted with pandemic management activities and the consequences of COVID-19 and 300 million lv. to support business. For your information, from the beginning of the pandemic until 31 March 2021, expenditure has been incurred relating to measures to combat COVID-19, amounting to 5.1 billion. BGN 1 billion to support households. 800 million. lv.; to support the business.. 2 billion. 200 million. BGN, and for the government authorities entrusted with the activities for the management of the pandemic and the consequences of the CIVID-19 1 billion. 100 million. lv. If we have to go back to the first quarter of 2021, the cost increase for non-commercial enterprises has the payments under the measure 60/40 s 165 million. lv.; the measure 80/20; the measure "Save me'; the measure "Support through working capital' for small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the temporary anti-epidemic measures administered by the NRA and others. In the part of pension expenditure, 314 million were spent. 200,000. lv. for additives of 50 BGN to pensions for all pensioners for the months from January to March. In addition, the increase in the amount of the minimum pension for service and age and the maximum amount of pensions from the beginning of the year, as well as the underlying effect of the increase in pensions from the beginning of the year, in July 2020. The part of health insurance shall take into account an increase related to the higher costs of combating the pandemic and the mechanisms put in place to finance health institutions during the actions of the exceptional epidemiological situation, including the costs of vaccines, medicines, tests, supplies and protective equipment. Funds for support of first-line staff in the fight against COVID-19 - additional monthly net remuneration of 1000 BGN.; payment of medical aid for vaccination against COVID-19; monthly addition to the remuneration of doctors of BGN 600; of professionals from the professional field of health care in the amount of BGN 360. and the orderlies of 120 BGN. In addition, in the first quarter of the current year, part of the Ministry of Defence's Investment Programme was implemented, including the updated Investment Expenditure Project: the acquisition of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Naval Forces. lv.; design and construction of sites in military formations in the Air Force as part of the construction of an integrated system and infrastructure for the absorption, operation and provision of the new type of combat aircraft lv.; realization of investment project of T-72 "Modernization" for the needs of tank formations by the Land Forces "28 million." $700,000. lv.; costs of MRDP for ongoing repair and maintenance, including winter maintenance of 207 million $700,000. lv.; public debt service interest costs of 318 million $800,000. lv. The figures reported show, according to preliminary data from the Ministry of Finance at the end of March, that the balance of the consolidated fiscal programme is negative at 619 million. 400,000. BGN, or 0,5% of gross domestic product. The figures reported show that, for a period of five years, from 2010 to 2014, including the budget balance under the consolidated fiscal programme at the end of each first quarter of the year is negative. In 2010, the deficit was 1.7 billion. lv. These data clearly show that the negative effects for the fissure, after the shock of the economic and financial crisis 2008 - 2009 - continue for a long time. In this regard, the monitoring of this year, the deterioration of the budget balance following the shock to the economy of the pandemic in 2020 and the beginning of 2021, is largely expected by economic analysts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u41	Thank you, Minister, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u42	Last one, just two sentences.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u44	Currently during the year, the deficit is also a dynamic quantity which has an impact on both the current implementation of revenue and the absorption of expenditure. Preliminary forecasts give reason to expect that by the end of April, the reported deficit by March is possible to shrink, which means reaching close to a balanced budget balance for the first four months of the year, bearing in mind that the first quarter of 2021 is the worst in relation to the third wave of COVID-19. The result of 0.5% of the gross domestic product of the deficit for the first quarter of 2021 and our expectations for close to the balanced balance on 30 April 2021 give us reason to be free of complications, if there are no complications in the epidemiological situation, to fulfil the commitments made by the State Budget Act for 2021. When the situation is complicated in Bulgaria as well as in all other countries of the European Union, we will have to take further measures, which will require an update of the budget, carrying out additional costs and assuming additional debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Each parliamentary group is entitled to two questions to ask the Minister. On behalf of the GERB-SDS parliamentary group, do you have a question? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Minister! For GERB and the UDF, our adoption in the euro area is extremely important and from this point of view I want you to tell us how the implementation of the commitments made in connection with our accession to the ERM II Currency Mechanism and to the Banking Union is going. Will the admission of Bulgaria from 1 January 2024 be respected in your opinion, as set out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u48	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Hristov! On 29 July 2018, Bulgaria sent a letter to the Eurogroup expressing its readiness to participate in the Single Supervisory Mechanism by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank and joining ERM II. In this letter, we formally stated our intention to join the ERM II Currency and Tourist Mechanism and the Banking Union, with the latter being carried out by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank, with a view to the participation of the country in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The letter also included commitments by Bulgaria for reforms in certain policy areas. The letter is available on the pages of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of the European Union. Our intention received political support from the Eurogroup at its meeting on 12 July 2018, about which we were informed by letter from the President of the Eurogroup of 24 July 2018. The documentation was again published and can be found on the website of the Ministry of Finance. In line with the commitments, an Action Plan by the Council of Ministers of 27 August 2018 was approved, containing measures in response to Bulgaria's intentions to join ERM II and the Banking Union. It is also available on the website of the Ministry of Finance. Reform measures for different policy areas include harmonisation of the legal framework of the structure and the activities of the Bulgarian National Bank with the requirements of European Union legislation, as well as strengthening the framework of supervision in the banking and non-banking financial sector. Improving the macro-institutional framework and that of insolvency, strengthening the framework for combating money laundering and upgrading the governance framework for state-owned enterprises and, last but not least, After the hard work of all institutions and the successful implementation of the commitments, which was positively assessed by the European institutions and the Member States, the Bulgarian lev joined the ERM II currency mechanism and Bulgaria established close cooperation within the Banking Union as of 10 July 2020. The government has accepted subsequent commitments that the country should fulfil until its accession to the euro area. In general, they constitute a natural continuation and upgrade of the measures already taken, as well as of the ongoing reforms in the areas of non-bank financial sector, a framework for the management of state enterprises, a framework for insolvency and a framework for combating money laundering. What is our preparation for the euro area? After the accession of the Bulgarian lev to the ERM II Currency Mechanism in July 2020, the process of Bulgaria's accession to the euro area entered its final phase, which required the restoration of the work of the co-ordination council for the preparation of the Republic of Bulgaria for membership in the euro area in 2015. With this was practically the beginning of our country's practical preparation for the adoption of the single European currency with a target date of 1 January 2024. In this regard, in March this year the government adopted changes in the Decree No 168 of the Council of Ministers for the establishment of the Coordination Council for the preparation of the Republic of Bulgaria for membership in the euro area, which are aimed at ensuring better coordination of the preparatory process, better introduction of the euro in the country. The Coordination Council is entrusted with the following more important tasks: to organise and coordinate the practical preparation of our country for membership in the euro area; to develop by 30 June 2021 a draft National Plan for the introduction of the euro with an indicative deadline for membership in the euro area from 1 January 2024. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the National Plan is the main strategic document in the process of preparing the country for membership in the euro area. It predicts the path our country must make to replace the national currency with the euro. The plan describes the principles, scenarios, the main measures to be carried out in individual areas with a view to introducing the euro. The process of developing the National Plan is in an advanced phase. The efforts are aimed at meeting the deadline laid down in PMS No 168, namely by the end of June this year "The draft National Plan to be ready and to be sent for approval by the Council of Ministers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any who would like to ask a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of "There is such a people"? Here you go, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u50	Madam President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for all the numbers exported, but you did not answer the specific question: what is the status of the fiscal reserve? My colleagues and I from "There is such a people" we have prepared an analysis of the fiscal reserve in which, in fact, the minimum non-lower balance, which should include all funds with specific target values, is about 9 billion. lv. This includes: the silver fund, which is about 3.3 billion. lv.; National Fund, which is about 3 billion. lv.; the energy funds, which are about 2.5 billion. BGN, as well as the Teacher's Pension Fund of 350 million. lv. The situation of the fiscal reserve according to data from BNB on 9 April is 5.9 billion. lv. Currently, the latest data on April 16th is 7.2 billion. lv. Apparently there's a lack of nearly two billion. lv. Does this involve spending targeted funds and who has authorised the expenditure of these targeted funds from the single account? In addition, my next question is: the balancing that you are talking about will be achieved with the expected revenues from the concession at Sofia airport, which amount to over 660 million. lv. With VAT or not? Do you expect to compensate for this budget deficit of over 600 million? lv.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u51	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not answer the question about the fiscal reserve, as there will be a hearing shortly on it, so I focused on the implementation of the budget and expectations by the end of the year. With a high degree of conviction towards the end of April, the budget will be close to balanced. In my opinion, on the basis of today's calculations and analyses, the deficit can move at minus 100 million. lv. up to plus 100 million surpluses. But this, of course, is clear to all economists that it will happen on 30 April, when the latest data from revenue receipts and expenditures are released. At this stage, I will say, however, I was asked to date the fiscal reserve of the state is 8 billion. 500 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid 500 million. BGN, of which 8 billion are on a BNB account, and the remaining 500 million are in commercial banks, i.e. far from the figure that was quoted. There is no way to draw a figure in the period from 2 to 9 April when only costs are incurred and revenues do not enter or very few enter into the state budget. You know that the time limits for declaring taxes and their import starts at the 13th, 14th of the month and ends at the end of the month. So the information that was released is at least incorrect, I hope, not unprofessional, but just someone fooled the economist who said this figure on April 10th. But, anyway, to date, the fiscal reserve is 8 billion. 500 million. lv. As regards the concession at Sofia airport, yes, it entered the fiscal reserve. Its size is 660 million. lv. We had made preliminary commitments with him to carry out some very important costs related to the transport system, the transport sector, but because this contribution was late all these costs were incurred by budget means and this is a reimbursement of the costs that the state had previously incurred to support the transport sector. Either way, in these 8 and a half billion there is 3 billion and 300 million Silver Fund, or it is the Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. This money is a separate account, we have not allowed ourselves from the creation of the Fund to be taken one penny from it and to finance other expenditures from the state budget. Everything else is funds that can be temporarily used to cover expenditure in the budget. Quite simply to explain it, imagine a bank that has deposits of its citizens. The citizen makes his deposit, this deposit is used by the bank to finance, of course, the other expenses it provides, but analytically everything is kept both in the bank and in the fiscal reserve. For each of these targeted expenditures for which they have been mentioned, there is analytical accountability in the fiscal reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I merely remind you that the hearing is about the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 and the level and structure of the fiscal reserve as of 31 March 2021. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria........................... for Bulgaria.......................................................................... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u54	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In the mid-term forecast submitted with the budget for 2021, you did not predict the closure of the country again. In this regard, my question is regarding the additional costs that you have incurred with a decision of the Council of Ministers. What is the amount of additional expenditure incurred by a decision of the Council of Ministers in the first quarter of 2021 and what is their ratio to the budget? What part of them, of these extra expenses made through the SUV window, is for anti-coffee measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u55	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start my response backwards, as I have completed my previous speech with the cost of the measures. I said from the beginning of the pandemic to March 31, 5 billion were spent. 100 million. lv. expenditure on socio-economic measures to deal with the pandemic, of which I also mentioned the specific amounts in the three directions: measures to support households - 1 billion. 800 million. lv.; Business Support Measures suppose 2 billion. 200 million. BGN, and measures for the government authorities entrusted with the activities related to the management of the pandemic 1 billion. 100 million. lv. Since the beginning of the year, I have announced the figure of 1 billion. 345 million. BGN, as support measures for households are 645 million. BGN, measures to support the business - 300 million lv. and measures for the government authorities entrusted with the pandemic management activities lv. Since the beginning of the year, it has been said what costs have been incurred by the central budget to finance a number of events that were important and pressing have been provided with 976 million. lv. from the central budget, such as, notice, 716 million of them. lv. are planned in advance for specific specific costs. The Commission therefore concludes that the restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. In front of me are all the decrees the government has passed. If you have the opportunity to read them, you will see that inside it is about providing additional means of bringing water, i.e. water supply, inland waterways; for repairing, construction and renovation of schools, kindergartens; for streets in places that were in terrible condition; for building and repairing roads between settlements there were not even roads and were made new ones. All this is extremely important for the living standards of Bulgarian citizens. Go to these settlements, meet with the people who live there, and ask them: "Excuse me, did you need these funds and those activities that the state is financing? " They will answer you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] I'll answer that question too. Why didn't you bet them? Because always in the course of the year there are circumstances which we must at all costs deal with with the consequences of these adverse phenomena, and then the state restructures on the basis of the order of the priorities it has.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, come in, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in your exhibition you stated that in the first half, or rather by the end of March, the income from taxes and social security contributions, compared to 2020 has increased, if I am not mistaken, by about 250 million. At the same time, under the Consolidated fiscal programme, you stated that the budget deficit at the end of March was around 619 million. lv. In this regard, given the fact that the State Budget Act has been adopted with a deficit of about 4 billion and a half, on the one hand [[Repeat by Minister Kiril Ananiev: "Four and nine hundred. "]] In this regard, and in connection with the............... about 70 projects in the National Assembly........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, thank you for reporting the deficit with which the state budget expects to end by the end of the year. It's really $4 billion. 900 million. lv. And that's a good comparison. After the end of the first toughest quarter and the fourth month of the year we are on a balanced budget or around it, which shows that the state finances are well managed. As far as social payments and pensions are concerned, as the budget has been developed, as budget revenue is being implemented, I can guarantee that all these social payments will be paid to the people entitled by the end of the year and there is no risk at all. These are the people who are extremely important to us - these are the pensioners, these are the socially weak, these are the people who are in an unemployment period - all people who for one reason or another have suffered either from the pandemic or other factors. So I say here that in the budget so developed and in the execution of revenue, as is now going, there is no risk and danger to social payments. You have touched on a very interesting topic because I, as a finance minister, naturally, am observing all the projects that are currently being submitted to the National Assembly. There is talk of spending everywhere, and it is in huge amounts... for billions it is without talking about how they will be covered. However, this means, firstly, a very large deficit. Together, all these expenses that have now been incurred in the National Assembly are about 13 billion. lv. additional costs, which means an additional 10% deficit. You know, it's a debt that needs to be drawn and then returned. Therefore, when examining these draft laws, there must be a financial justification for the source that will cover these costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u61	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, are there any who wish to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, our further question is mostly about our understanding of your very serious, longstanding experience as a budgeter, and it is as follows. You said that if there were no adverse developments in the situation by the end of the year, we would probably not have to revise the budget framework. However, the question is: in the normal development of the situation, are the things that you told us that due to the underlying effects the costs at the beginning of the year, at least until the middle, will grow much faster, there is no need to download the emissions calendar a little further this year?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u63	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u64	Thank you, Madam President. This is a really good, professional issue that I and my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance have been thinking a lot about. Why didn't we withdraw some of the loan we have the opportunity to withdraw by the end of the year? You know, our limit is 4.5 billion. We've only withdrawn 800 million so far. BGN, i.e. there is one serious resource to be drawn here by the end of the year. There are two reasons why we didn't do a new feed. The first reason is that at the moment the fiscal reserve has sufficient resources to be able to deal with the current costs that we have to carry out during these spring-summer months. If we exclude the pandemic, they are usually of lower size, cost level. The second thing, which has some political assessment, we did not wish at the end of this government's mandate to issue, because if we were to issue now, we had to issue at least half of what remains to be drawn as a loan, that is, a serious resource from international financial markets. We have assessed that it is better for the new government to do so on the basis of its programme, based on its priorities, and out of respect, of course, for the people who will come to replace us in the management of the state, including in the financial sphere. And one third of the reason that is related to the first is that you cannot have 8.5 billion fiscal reserves, keep them at negative interest at BNB, but at the same time go out to international markets and draw debt that brings you interest for service. I think that's wrong. We therefore assessed at this stage that the debt that we have drawn from it.................................................................................................... BGN is enough, and this fiscal reserve is enough to pass the few months until the new government enters its role, assess its priorities, build them in a schedule by the end of the year and decide at what time the fiscal reserve should increase with a new loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u65	Thank you. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, it has become clear from your statement that in the first quarter of this year you have about 2 billion worse budget balances than the same period of last year.. 620 million deficit this year with a billion and 430 million surplus, if I am not mistaken, according to the data from the consolidated fiscal programme. Allow me to share my opinion that this is an extremely bad attestation for planning and, in our opinion, is an indicator of election spending, which is mainly at the expense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because they have not been reached by the money. As you yourself said in your exposé, by 2020, the amounts are more than symbolic. Measures against the crisis are not working, and most likely the prime minister's pocket money has already been spent, as the budget is without reserves. I would like to remind you that in April, the deficit is 5 billion for the period of December 2020. lv. According to your words, this hearing is expected this year to be even higher. Perhaps it is no coincidence that some of the so-called external speakers have already started talking about an update. In answer to the previous question, you yourself said that if there is a next Council of Ministers, you may be transferring to him the responsibility for new debts. According to independent economists it may be a question of regret, I do not want to juggle with the number of about 9 billion. BGN, which is a pretty high size. In this regard, I will ask the following question. There is yet to be an inspection which will most likely remove more skeletons from the wardrobe, but I would like to ask you: the issue that you have issued............................................................................... lv. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and it was intended to cover the costs which by 2022 had to be paid...................................................................................................... BGN, are they available, or did you spend it until December? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u67	Thank you. Please keep your time. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u68	Thank you, Madam President. To tell you the truth, your speech from the stands was a little confused or unordered. At the end of the day, I didn't understand which question I had to answer. Note that these 5 billion or 2.5 billion. EUR, which I issued last year, were, firstly, within the framework of the resource, which allows me the 2020 Budget Act, and, secondly, it was reported by all our European partners and financial institutions -- European and global -- as one of the most successful debts that a Member of the European Union claimed last year. Of course, this money comes into the fiscal reserve and it is part of it, and it is to cover the budget deficit for last year, as well as the current payments that are made after its debt and to fulfil the obligation at the end of 2020 not to be below 4.5 billion. As far as the so-called revision and skeletons are concerned, I advise you to let the relevant authorities do checks and then let us talk with such loud phrases, because many times we have been inspected and have never found skeletons or bars or other things so far. So in the name of fellowship, for the sake of good relationships, let's talk after the checks.... who has found what and not now. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u69	Thank you. We're going to ask the second questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister of Finance in resignation, let us return to reality and touch on a very important subject which concerns the budgetary balance, namely the issue of debt and debt. Thanks also for Mr. Ganev's question, as he was basically in that direction. But it is worth noting that we are second in the European Union...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u71	Third!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u72	Secondly, we are more debt after Estonia, unless Estonia is counted as two countries. I'm sorry to hear from you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u73	At one point Luxembourg was, but he stayed third.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u74	Please, Minister, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u75	I apologize, too, but... So in this direction, it is nice that you are asked questions about what your views are in the future. This means that they expect that you will still be involved in this activity, you will be in this habit. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Over the years, you have proved that you are doing excellent and the fruit of all your efforts to different governments, I am not only saying to GERB, with small exceptions, of course the last year of Mr. Stanishev's government and the whole of Mr. Oresharski, followed the same policy. So what is your vision of how debt will be managed and in order to respect macroeconomic stability and fiscal sustainability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u76	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Glauchev, government policy on government debt management, as an important component of fiscal policy, is aimed at maintaining macroeconomic stability and preserving the country's sustainability. The consistent and effective government debt management throughout the period from the end of 2014 to March 2021 contributed to the preservation of the leading role of the Republic of Bulgaria among the countries of the European Union with the lowest debt, with our country taking third place, and since 2019 now second place among the member states of the European Union, after Estonia, as Mr. Glauchev said. According to the latest publications in January 2021 by Eurostat, data for the third quarter of 2020, the value of the indicator consolidated debt of the sector This level is not only far below the upper threshold of the Maastricht convergence criteria of 60%, but also significantly below the average levels for eurozone countries of 97.3% of gross domestic product, but for all EU countries of 89.8%. As a result of the outbreak and rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the changes in this connection are expected by the sector's debt to be around 29 billion by the end of 2020. Seven hundred million. BGN, and the value of the ratio of consolidated debt of the sector. Again, one of the lowest levels. The low level of debt of the government sector shall ensure the long-term implementation of the Maastrian convergence criterion of 60%. The share of public debt as a component of the general debt of the sector of government is about 93% at the end of 2020, which is a prerequisite for the dominant importance of the government debt management policy. The net nominal increase in government debt amounts to approximately 5,7 billion from the end of 2014 to March 2021. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And 100 million. lv. As of 31 December 2014, at 27 billion. And 800 million. lv. as of 31 March 2021. For the same period, the relative share of sovereign debt to GDP decreased from 26,3% as at 31 December 2014 to 22,3% as at 31 March 2021. The government debt dynamics from the end of 2014 to 31 March 2021 is an effective figure of the issued government securities in the internal market, the spread of Eurobonds within the medium-term debt issuance programme on international markets, the capital used on external loans by international financial institutions of a total of 22 billion. lv. and the public debt claims carried out at the rate of 16.3 billion. lv. In order to ensure maximum flexibility in the implementation of the issue policy and in view of the large amount of debt maturity in 2015, the need for debt sources to finance budget deficits and maintain certain levels of the fiscal reserve, respectively, imposed the need for preparation and establishment actions in February 2015 of a Global Medium-term debt issuance programme on international capital markets. The programme was founded by ratification by the National Assembly of the Dealer's Treaty, the Agency's Treaty and the Programme's Billion-Liabilities Act. Euro, or their equivalent in another currency. In the year 2020, according to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 4 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 the limit of the Programme is increased from 8 to 10 billion. lv. In accordance with the terms of the basic programme, in the framework of the debt constraints of the Budget Act for 2015, 2016 and 2020, eurobonds with a total volume of 7 billion were issued. The Commission Euro, or 76% of the total limit under the Programme, with the remaining volume of 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group there are any willing people? Here you go, Mrs. Zaykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u79	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Vice-Presidents, honourable Minister, colleagues! I'm gonna ask the minister a couple of atypical questions. I want to make sure that the fiscal reserve is in good health or in seemingly good health, Mr. Minister, so I will ask you this: firstly, are there any unpaid salaries in state structures? Because you explained very well that apart from the Silver Fund, which is in a separate account, everything else is in a joint chunk. Isn't that right, colleagues? And I ask because we are being contacted by signals, are there any outstanding, i.e. retained salaries in state structures? Question one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u80	Mrs. Zaykova, I'm sorry to interrupt. You have only one question, so formulate it to be one.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u81	Okay. ... and have advances in specific activities been paid... Are the advances paid out? I can't ask any more questions. [[Noise, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u82	Paychecks...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u83	No, no. Non-paying stakes on specific activities of the euro funds. [[National Representative Mika Zaykova speaks away from the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u84	Mrs. Zaykova, ask your question on the microphone loud and clear. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zaykova, we've been working together for a long time and we know each other. [[Laughter and raging]] So I expected there to be a question for you to call in the social sphere. Not only are salaries paid regularly to public sector workers, but you also know that this year we have undertaken an income policy by increasing the remuneration of public sector workers by 10%. I do not want to go back in the past year, when all those who were on the front line in the sector They get them on a regular basis. There's a lot of motivation. So there's no problem at all. The second part of the issue of EU funds has not been understood very much, but we have a plan of relations with the European Commission on the money we are about to receive and the money we need to spend and report to the European Commission. This plan is being implemented. We are in constant communication with them, so there are no problems with the absorption of the funds provided to us by the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u86	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.......................................... Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u87	Mr. Minister, according to an official report that we have from the Ministry of Finance from 28 February 2021, the reserve is 8.8 billion. Today, a month later, you say the reserve is 8.5 billion. This means that you are melting the reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria at a rate of 300 million per month. With regard to the structure of the reserve. Of that 8 billion and a half, 3 billion 300 million is a silver fund that can't be touched. Three billion funds from the European Union and 750 million are the balances of the NIF and NHIF and the Insurance Institute and the Health Insurance Fund. So by subtracting that money from the total amount...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u88	Why are you taking them out?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u89	Because you can't spend it on anything but those targeted things about pensions, NIFs, NHIFs. The real funds in the reserve remain a billion and 400. First of all, let me get this straight. [[Heckling]] Secondly, my question is: how much money did Mr. Borisov spend with a decree of the Council of Ministers outside the budget approved by the National Assembly? Total amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u90	Not a penny.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u91	How much money did you spend outside the budget with a decree from the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u92	Not a penny.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u93	It is obvious to everyone that the implementation of the budget does not correspond to the adopted by the National Assembly. In this regard, I ask you: does Borisov's government intend to submit an update of the budget? Why am I asking you? The political situation at the moment in Bulgaria is extremely dynamic and tense. If no government is formed and there is an early elections, there will be no parliament to adopt an update of the budget. I mean, if you don't do it and you don't take responsibility for what you leave, leaving, you're bringing further chaos into the country, and already at the level of financial, social, economic and so on. Therefore, I ask for an answer: does this resigned government of Borisov intend to submit an update of the budget to ensure the normal functioning of the state in the coming months, whatever happens to forming a new government, working or going to elections?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u94	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u95	I'm surprised, Mrs. Ninova, to the questions you asked. In fact, I'm a little uncomfortable with giving the answers because they're not very facial. First I told you that the budget balance by April will be, i.e. the balance will be balanced or around it, after the worst three months of the year and the strong level of morbidity in the country. It is expected that in the coming months on the basis of the measures we have taken, these levels will fall, but anyway in this implementation of the budget, which we foresee, we will end within the framework of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria approved by the National Assembly for 2021. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Certainly, if the anti-epidemic situation worsens not only in our country but also in Europe and the world, all countries will take appropriate measures to update their budgets. Two countries in Europe have already done so. Because when we met at the ECOFIN Council of Ministers in Brussels, we agreed that all countries would make their budgets with measures included by the end of the second quarter of the year at most. So not just us, but all the other EU member states have provided their resources for anti-epidemic measures by the middle of the year. So it is no shame, if the pandemic continues, to make a corresponding budget update, but not with such proposals that you have now submitted to the National Assembly, because then we should be looking for debts no longer.. I would not like to predict, in what sizes and how we will leave it to our descendants, children and grandchildren for decades to pay. Because your projects are for billions, without having one lev inside to deal with the pandemic, and solving a number of social issues that have been put for years, some of them have been solved, some have been partially solved, some have not been solved. As to how much we spent...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u96	Are you going to submit an update? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u97	Excuse me? No, I'm sorry, I can't hear you. You're hiding somewhere at the end. The leader should be up here in front.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u98	Will you submit an update? [[Noise and lines.]] That was the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u99	Update. At the very beginning, I told you that at this stage, in this state of the budget, in this state of the fiscal reserve, in this state of revenue and expenditure, there is no need to update the budget. I said that an update of the budget may only be necessary if the anti-epidemic situation worsens and additional funds are provided for all these socio-economic measures that will have to continue until the end of the year. Then such an update should be tabled, but I am personally convinced that such an update should be made by the government, which will come to power to manage, as it has its own programme, it can change part of the philosophy of the approved budget for this year. In no case should we set its policies and priorities in advance by the end of the year. This budget, which we have adopted, with these policies and priorities, is being implemented and will be implemented by the end of the year in the framework of this deficit, which we have provided for by 4 billion. 900 million. BGN, and does not need to be updated. Of course, I repeat, if there is no complication of the situation. As for the money spent by a decree of the Council of Ministers, there is not a penny more spent than what was approved by the National Assembly as a budget for 2021, in the vote on which you participated personally. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] It wasn't a coincidence before in answer to another question that I said that the whole list of decrees is here with me, you can see it. All of the most of the pre-planned expenditures in the central budget, as there are a number of events to provide the money, you have to have the natural indicators. For example, people who go on haemodialysis are entitled to free transport. This transport we cannot predict in advance in the budget of the municipality, but we give it further because we do not know how many people there are, where they will go to perform haemodialysis. On the basis of proposals from the municipalities, we provide this money. That's 75% of the additional expenses transferred...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u100	How can you not be ashamed of all that money for hemodialysis?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u101	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u102	Please, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u103	I'm saying an example. This is an example. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u104	I'm asking you not to engage in dialogue with the Minister. You will then have the opportunity to respect his answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u105	You're not answering the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u106	Look, if I have to tell you the entire central budget, you're gonna have to come down here and tell it to you, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u107	PMSs, PMSs?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u108	Well, PMS is over 100! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You want me to tell you all about it?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I said it a little while ago. Nine hundred and a few million were all...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u109	Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u110	Of which 750 were planned in advance and the other two hundred and how long until the amount were for extraordinary costs due to events. If you can't hear, if you're distracted, please don't ask me questions again, be serious! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a question from the DPS parliamentary group? Mr. Tsonev, come in. [[Definitions between the President and the National Representative Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u112	Sorry, guys. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Obviously, the topic is about the fiscal reserve, because that was also the question. I believe that the clarity you have brought to the specialists has been sufficient, but still, in this House, colleagues do not all understand matter well enough. This is what the last question is talking about, because if you had been asked about the decrees that were not sanctioned in the budget of the National Assembly, the answer would have been different because all decrees of the Council of Ministers on expenditure are part of the Republican budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u113	Article 1!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u114	That's right. And that's the big vice. I appeal to the new President of the Budget Committee of the Public Finance Act........................................ which has allowed this to happen for 10 years, a large reserve, buffers in the Central Republican Budget and hence by decrees absolutely legally, absolutely right, but not with a specific sanction of parliament. We are about to have one of the most urgent laws that we have to adopt is an amendment to the Public Finance Act. But let's get back to the fiscal reserve. The fiscal reserve movement has been disturbing in recent months. This is beyond doubt, because its level is growing literally in the last days and because of tax revenues, because April is such a period. I'll give you just one example - one and a half billion taxes have been collected last week. These are last week's proceeds. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. However, the fiscal reserve also includes 300 million new debt in March and 500 in February. These are the two emissions that you have made, they enter there. There is also the money from Sofia airport from the concession, so its smooth rise is somehow planned, but its strong spending and its fall to a critical level in March is not very accurate, because in the previous years I remember it was not so. My question is: how do you explain the movement of the fiscal reserve? I personally explain it to myself with a lot of pre-election spending, I'm not saying they're out of budget, I'm not saying they're not regulated, but for me, the fiscal reserve level doesn't move the way it does in other years.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, there is no way to move the fiscal reserve on schedule as previous years to the same period, because in previous years there has not been at least the pandemic that has affected not only in Bulgaria. For a reason, I have said several times what a huge resource last year, and this year, the state has set aside to meet socio-economic measures. It's normal, and you said it yourself, to go in the second half of the month and it's regular, it's not extraordinary, it's like that every month, it's tax revenue in the budget. Therefore, we should not be surprised that over a billion incomes have entered in a few days. In addition, you know that we have moved the advance contributions to the corporate tax on June, that is, if for last year they were imported by the end of March, we will now have one serious resource. It was delayed, but some took advantage, some didn't. While now a significant resource will enter in June of the advance contributions to corporate tax. So the budget process itself has its own specifics in both revenue and expenditure, and we must, when we do analyses and comparisons, know how to say, the dynamics of the budgetary process on which dynamics have a great impact on revenue and expenditure schedules during the month. I believe that the size of the fiscal reserve at this stage does not create concerns, does not create problems to pay the normal costs that the public sector must carry out and we are on a schedule for the implementation of Budget 2021. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u118	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at Eurostat data for the first quarter of the year, there has been no deficit since 2012. We are talking about seasonally unharmed data, that is, almost 10 years there has been no such deficit. The Finance Minister will say: there has never been such a pandemic, which is true. It is also true that you, Minister, and your colleagues from GERB are building the capacity of the Ministry of Finance for more than 10 years and it should be built. A very serious question comes to this background: how in this situation, nearly 700 million were not collected. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Lev?! If you built a serious capacity of the Ministry of Finance, you were there, your colleagues were there, your staff were there, is how you didn't see in the budget that nearly 700 million. BGN, of which 550 million fees, and the other fines and penalties, didn't come together? Now as an experienced specialist to tell me: but somehow we've slept through it, it's not serious! I don't believe that. But the more important question, today's date, which I specifically ask you, is this: how much of this money have you put back into the budget? Because that's the responsible position in the pandemic. The last public answer you know, fellow Members, what is the question of 8 million. BGN, less than 1%. So now I'm asking you, are we still standing, Minister, at 8 million. lv. returned from these 700 million missed revenue in the budget of gambling that would do us a great job now in the pandemic, or do you have better results? If you disappoint us now and tell us you're still 8 million. BGN, and at the end, having been more than one year since the finding of this absence, it will be extremely disappointing. So I hope that you, Minister, will now share with us good news, because it does not turn out that, first of all, these funds have not been collected and, second of all, and a year later, there are no results. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u119	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dimitrov, now for understandable reasons I cannot tell you the exact number of the recovered funds, but I can tell you that the process is running and this amount is no longer 8 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u121	When will you tell us?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u122	I'm gonna check in, and I'm gonna call you personally, because that's a billion figures, and you can't remember everything. What's more, it didn't happen in my day. I was then Minister of Health, and I'm going to have to check the exact amount of money that was collected. But what I can say as a person who has worked in the budget for many years is that in order to be able to account for any income, especially in this case, which is related to gambling. There are a number of court cases, and these cases need to end with a certain decision in order to be able to import this money into the budget revenue. So I think there are a lot of cases in the case of the hundreds of millions you said. But if you want, make a written question and I will answer you with the full details that you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u123	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u124	Thank you. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u125	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, you have repeatedly assured us that the budget is being implemented well, that the revenue is running, the expenditure is under control. This would sound quite plausible in a normal year, but in conditions of pandemic and of a species of crisis it sounds somewhat unnatural and frightening, especially when it comes to a sector such as healthcare, such as the insurance system, which was charged with quite an additional cost. In this sense, I would like to use your expertise as the supervisor of the Health Insurance Fund in previous years and your experience there, to tell us if you believe that the envisaged budget transfer, because our health care is financed mainly by the state budget, will be sufficient by the end of the year? Are there any buffers at stake, any possibilities for additional costs? Because the crisis is far from over. And do you think that an update of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund will be required to meet such costs? Because what you have provided us as information does not give us the confidence that such buffers have been provided and that additional costs of the health system can be met if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u126	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yonchev, special attention was paid to the health care system during the development of the budget for 2021, because we knew that these are the people who will meet in the first order the citizens of Bulgaria who have become infected by this treacherous disease. The necessary resources were provided for the first-line workers, the necessary funds were provided for the medicines with which all European citizens are treated, we are also working very seriously to speed up the vaccination plan, and the necessary means for vaccines are provided for the entire volume of vaccines that we expect to receive by mid-summer and to reach this level of vaccination that is required for other Member States of the European Union. In my opinion, the resources available to the National Health Insurance Fund, at the same time the central budget, will be enough to carry out the current costs, including medicines, vaccines, not only for the funds that are given for additional remuneration, but even for the purchase of equipment and equipment that is needed, by the end of August, on my accounts, without being so deep in the implementation of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund at the moment. I say they'll reach from the point of view of the pandemic, otherwise the budget is year-round and it will cover its normal costs by the end of the year. However, if the pandemic continues after August, then it may be necessary for both the state budget and the casata budget to carry out the necessary update. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Each parliamentary group shall have the right to express its attitude towards the Minister's responses. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Mr. Glauchev, come in. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister in Retire, we are pleased with what you have put out in plenary. You have told with a very large bouquet of figures what has been done over the years, what you leave after your resignation. You've brought peace and stability. And right here is the place for something like this, and it's not a place for speculation, because here from other groups, come on, I'm not going to go into details, there were speculative numbers, numbers that had nothing to do with reality. It is understood why we are in the waiting room of the euro area, in slang, otherwise.. in the Currency Exchange Mechanism 2 and there is no easy entry... you must have met three Maastricht criteria. One of us talked about the debt, that we're in second place, that we're in third place, and we're always in those criteria. All of this is with increased salaries of teachers twice, a 10% annual increase in the salaries of the administration. And if anyone says: only about the administration you are talking about, well it is the government's job to deal with the salaries of the administration, and everyone who deals with finance and economics knows that this after it attracts an increase in salaries in the private sector. In fact, a lot of business complains about the fact that salaries were raised in the administration and were forced to raise salaries in the private sector, as otherwise they are facing a leak. We also found out about the status of the fiscal reserve. I don't know the colleagues who say that the unlow balance, if I can use that expression, should be nine billion, on what basis exactly are they stepping on?! At least I don't know her, so let them argue. Either way, we've found out the last three months, with a deficit of 660 million, I think that's the figure you mentioned in the first quarter, even... [[The lighting in the hall is greatly diminishing.]] Can we hear each other? [[Radio.]] We're in touch. Okay. In a deficit of 616 million, you said that only in the implementation of measures related to the horse pandemic paid 1 billion 340. [[Noise and lines.]] Since I was listening to the data, excuse me, colleagues, I was just listening to the data here, I didn't prepare in advance. In the case of deficit 614 million. BGN, paid 1 billion 340, you can see for yourself whether it was wasted during this first quarter. As for the famous decrees of the Council of Ministers and the interesting question of how much leva have been paid outside the State Budget Act, everyone knows that the answer is.............................................................................. So we are betraying, that is, you, as a resignation government, are handing over the budget in very good health, I would say. A balanced budget balance, a neutral balance, hasn't existed in a long time. It is true that in the first quarter are the large incomes from taxes, in fact VAT revenues have regular after the 14th number, when the declarations are submitted, that is where these proceeds come from, so for everyone who deals even at a scientifically-popular level with finances, all of this should be clear. Even someone who owns their own firm knows this thing. The accountants always say, "Don't touch us till the 14th, because we have a lot of work to do." Even in practice, someone who has something to do with business knows how it is. Here I heard that salaries were paid from the fiscal reserve, which, with a balanced balance, I do not see how it will happen to pay salaries from the fiscal reserve, I have hardly even heard wages paid from there. But to sum it up, we're handing this over. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You're on, guys! Good luck. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u130	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group there are any willing people? Here you go, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u131	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. Just a brief comment: to call BNB data incorrect I would not commit to such allegations. The BNB data is publicly available and available to all. The fact is that in the last month of March more than 1 billion and 600 million were spent, compared to the previous period in 2020, which you called record. That is, obviously, the management of the budget funds was linked to the election environment we were in. This raises concerns about state finances and I hope that the next government will deal with all the problems that are left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u132	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u133	Madam President, honourable Members! To some extent the picture of the state of the Bulgarian budget and the fiscal reserve became clear, but the concerns remained, some of them even increased. Why? Firstly, in terms of the state budget. It seems at first glance that we are doing a good job of carrying out the plan for 2021. But, honourable Members, it is good because the European Union has rightly authorised the transfers it is making in some programmes, to transfer them to cover the additional costs associated with COVID-19. For this reason, there are no additional costs in the budget in relation to COVID-19 or they are insignificant. This is a problem because the expenditures of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, even in this reformation by the European Union, you said, are about four billion, which is around and below 4% of gross domestic product. We are between two and four times less, the state has helped the Bulgarian families and the Bulgarian business than our partners in the European Union. It takes 15.20 seconds for this check. Secondly, you did not say, honourable colleague Ananiev, in those costs that you mentioned, including 2 billion. 200 million. lv. for business, and can you say that these are accrued and not provided funds? Because the second problem of the Bulgarian state is that the aid to the Bulgarian families, firstly, is limited and does not cover a number of Bulgarian citizens, especially self-insuring, and, secondly, in terms of business, small and medium-sized companies since August last year are waiting to receive their funds which they have not received. And here you report 2 billion and 200 million! How much did you give the companies? [[Replicates from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] No more than a billion. Then, you say that you have not drawn any new loans this year, because you have much respect for the possible new government. But you just didn't draw more than 800 million before the election. lv. And do you realize that in the political development of things, is it possible, honourable colleague, that there is no government and that we should go to early elections? It is possible. And then, in the case of the caretaker government, a new debt cannot be withdrawn for the next few months. Why didn't you fill the fiscal reserve with a political price, of course, a little, so that you could leave the next government a resource at its disposal? [[Replicates from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Since, Mr. Ananiev, your governments have started since 2015 a new element in global financial history to vote on loans for years to come and not on the budget of the same year. Sixteen billion leva voted for financial luxury "2015" by 2018 - 2019. Now you have again voted for luxury 4.5 billion for this year, from which you have used only 800 million so far. And you say you didn't withdraw any additional funds and you didn't fill in the fiscal reserve just out of respect for your successors, which no one in this room trusts. After that, we've talked about this before, enough with the government debt manipulations. This is the third time I'm gonna say this. It's probably not gonna be the last time. Correctly Bulgaria should be maintained under the 60% of gross domestic product limit. This is what we have always supported, although you correctly quoted our European partners at 80 and 90 and over 100 percent. Bulgaria should stay around and below 60%. But don't fool the Bulgarian public that we are bad at all other macroeconomic indicators, but we are good with debt. Yes, in fact, Estonia and I have the lowest debt. Well, then, they, the Japanese, are very badly, they have 237% debt to gross domestic product! Well, Italy's 133%, the U.S. is 106, 107%. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u134	Mr. Gechev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u135	And by the way, when you say that we are best in the European Union on this ridiculous indicator, brought by you, do you know that in Zimbabwe the debt is 21% and is better than GERB? In Botswana is 12.78 percent and is better than GERB?! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] And the Taliban in Afghanistan, do you know what their debt is to 7%?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u136	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u137	And it's four times better than GERB's debt. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u138	Mrs. Alexandrova...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u139	So stop laughing at these funny indicators that kids are laughing at. It is good that the debt is below 60%, the tragedy is that this debt, which is small, does not go to the Bulgarian companies, does not go to structural reforms, does not go to the Bulgarian science, but goes to other places - goes to drawers and personal funds in offshore areas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u140	Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u141	After that, the capital reserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u142	Mr. Gechev, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u143	Is it over? The data presented is to date. The fiscal reserve changes daily. The other day it was 5.7 billion, with the new payments now you brought it to 8 billion. You leave no potential to the next government. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u144	From the DPS parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister for Retire, honourable Members! We at the DPS believe that this discussion is timely, but we must continue and we are concerned by three facts, more precisely, of three topics. Firstly, the dynamics of the fiscal reserve movement must continue to be examined in the Budget Committee, in general the structure and the movement of the budget, before going to elections if we are going to early elections. Secondly, the topic that worries us most is the greatest praise of debt. Dear colleagues, the Maastricht criterion is an official criterion for entering the euro area, but it is an outdated anachronic quantity and I will tell you why. Because if it were respected, the euro area would have orphaned. They had to throw out all those who were over 60. Do you understand why she's aged? They are all over 60%, which are in the euro area. So let us return to our Bulgarian deredge, as the people say, on the subject of debt. We are really very concerned and I will tell you why. We may be 25%, but when GERB came to power, we were five. The level of debt was below nine billion. I can give you the right figures, not to burden you. Now it's 30 billion. In 10 years, we have 20 billion, over 20 billion new debt, and I can tell you this in net terms, taking out the fiscal reserve out of public debt, that's even worse. And in order for there to be no speculation, as a lie has been going on for seven or eight years, the bankruptcy of a bank has nothing to do with debt, because the four and a half billion of the deposit guarantee fund's budget has returned the debt from the Fund to the budget at the appropriate interest rate. If I'm not mistaken, a hundred and a few million budgets are a plus. It's not about anything else, it's about removing this lie that it was because there were bankrupt banks. No. We take into account the conjuncture, we take into account that there have been crises and so on, but there have also been ups during which countries have done other things, such as the Baltics, and so on and so forth. If we're going to move 10 years with a five-fold increase in public debt burden, you decide, fellow Members, where we're going. With the opportunities of the Bulgarian economy because we do not have the opportunities of the Italian, German and so on economies, even the Greek we do not have the opportunities, and here we are talking about praises with the debt. Duty is a serious cause for concern, honourable Members. I say this not only because GERB have been in power for the last 10 years, but because this should be one of the main criteria on which we will make the fiscal rules of Bulgaria and the budgetary programmes of Bulgaria in the coming years. This increase in debt will play us a very bad joke. That's our concern. And two words about entering the euro area. Colleagues, we and Croatia are the only countries that, without entering the euro area, have agreed to join the Banking Union, to tell you what is happening now. Most likely, the decision on a moratorium on loans will not be confirmed and for eurozone countries this will not be a problem. It will be a problem for us, because if we are left with the possibility of the National Bank deciding, it will be good if they do not leave us, if this is resolved through the European Central Bank, our companies will go bankrupt due to a kind of crisis. DPS as one of the parties that has maintained the line of entry into the euro area from the very beginning, we have been saying: in the euro area, yes, in the Bank Union, no. A group of economists is here in the Banking Union, in the Banking Union, in the Banking Union at the same time. There is a problem with being in the banking union at the same time and not being in the euro area. We're about to face this problem. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u146	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, come in, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u147	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The presence of a health pandemic meant that the attitude towards the budget and fiscal reserve would be extremely responsible by the government. We, from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, are very concerned that the fiscal reserve is down from 13,5 billion. lv. in September 2020, up to about 8 billion. lv. Now. This is largely due to election spending that could have been avoided and I will give you a few examples of costs that are insufficiently justified. I'm starting with the so-called Balkan Stream. Excuse me, it's worth, although it's loans, with loans it's funded, it's worth about as much as the state spent on helping the population in the entire housing crisis. That is, a Balkan, Russian or Turkish stream, as you would like to call it, is worth about as much as a country has spent at all on the crisis. Where are your priorities, colleagues? That's the most important thing to you? Is that the most important thing?! The next question is "Belene." A huge mistake with consequences, expenses. You've been stopping him, running this project, and hundreds of millions are running. I am witnessing in this room how GERB stopped "Belene" and explained that this was an inefficient cost, and we said: "Yes, it is!" The people of the country then rose up and said that it was the best project was no longer a göl, the best project, the most important for the state. Hundreds and millions spent again in a pandemic. In third place, 500 million. lv. For the dams. Colleagues, you will probably also see the audit of the Court of Auditors finding out on this topic probably, but I have seen what a number of experts from the country have sent me, the money seems very badly spent again in a health pandemic. I mean, you've allowed serious bad spending of money, wasting money in a health pandemic, money that could go to business, to households, to any good intentions. Next, Mr. Minister, I don't believe you don't know how much of that 700 million. lv. For gambling, they're returned. And the fact that you don't answer anything means that at the same time in your term you allowed 700 million. lv. not to get into the budget, which would be very important for managing this crisis, and then you didn't bring them together a second time. I mean, you missed $700 million twice. lv. Get into the budget. First of all, when you didn't get them together, and second of all, if you don't look for them in the proper legal order so that it happens. That is, you miss two key things for the Bulgarian state and for the Bulgarian budget. And the fact that you're saying you don't know right now means we're close to that 8 million. BGN, which you had gathered at the end of the first year, which, if so, honourable Members, is extremely disappointing. We have some serious challenges ahead of us. And you know, Mr. Minister, it would be more fair to say that after everything you did with the extra expenses in December last year and in March this year, that you leave the state with good finances. It's just, I'm sorry, but it's not fair. It's not fair! I told you for a reason that for the first time in 10 years in the first quarter there is a budget deficit. Yeah, we all know there's a health pandemic. But let's do the following math. If you had returned half the gambling money that was missed, things would have looked different. If you hadn't wasted amounts on a number of projects I've listed for you, things would have been different. That is, the thesis of leaving the state with good finances, forgive me, from an economic point of view, and from a political point of view, it is simply not fair. You are leaving a country with many problems and it is particularly unfair in this situation to say that you are no longer ministers because you have resigned and almost no longer have a responsibility to deal with someone else. My conclusion, and our conclusion on the part of "Democratic Bulgaria" is as follows: the problems are very serious, the risks to the budget stand. After July these risks will deepen and hopefully Bulgaria will have a good and responsible government to solve these inherited problems from you. You will see that when the relevant statistics of the European Commission and the other institutions come out, this governance will finally be remembered for budget problems, problems in the fiscal reserve, problems in public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u148	Thank you. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, you are known in all the years as one of the best budgeters, I think I have repeatedly said this in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as the person who can transform any policy into numbers, as the person who can transform numbers as much as any politician wants it, and you are doing great with this task today. And what we see from both your report and the hearing, I hope next week and the Commission, is the stability that you feel is needed by the country and which you understand in your way. Because, as the Prime Minister used to say, the Stable Styrofoam. From it I can make so much that there is a whole nuclear power plant! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Bulgaria last year's official statistics reported the weakest decline in the economy and consumption. This is the highest consumption in the European Union and the slightest decline. That is, the numbers you provide us would mean that in Bulgaria we do not have an economic crisis, and the pandemic as it is, we are all aware of what is happening. One thing is clear that we have a budget that is balanced between three parts and so it seems to people, because there is no way to boast that the treasury is balanced and people are living worse and worse, and they can't understand it. By the figures you have provided to the International Monetary Fund, there are many interesting data about this amount that you are giving about the money spent on the pandemic. It will be good for you in the coming days to explain how it is possible to have 106 million for vaccines, which is great, we hope that it can happen for any Bulgarian citizen who wants; 192 million who are supporting doctors, and have for additional medical activities 748 million, since neither tests nor any of the medicines were taken for citizens outside those who walk on paths. So part of the figures and everything you say should be in the coming days both in the Budget and Finance Committee and in the Health Commission clearly explained on payment elements, by things how each of the funds went. Because when we're talking about a fiscal reserve that's very sensitive, you call it what you want, when spending is much greater than cyclical in the years, we have to say that we have a balance and it's called: poor people, rich government and strong mafia. Thank you. [[Applause from ISV.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. That concludes the first hearing. Dear colleagues, would you like us to take a break before we proceed to the second hearing? Okay. There is no rest under the Rules, so I would like to be correct with you and with the Rules and ask you. I'm announcing a 15-minute break by 12.15. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u151	Dear colleagues! We begin the consideration of the second item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE FINLAND IN THE LEFT KIRYL ANANYEV ON WHAT THE END OF THE YEAR IS LIKE IN THE STATE BUDGET AND HOW THE UNIVERSE DEVELOPMENT IS PLANNED. I give the floor to the proposer to present it within five minutes. Please invite the Minister of Finance to enter the room. Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Please call the Quaestors for the Minister of Finance. Here you are, Mr. Ganev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues, our question is similar to the question of colleagues from the BSP and I think we have properly separated it from one discussion to be on the general budget issues and this to be specific to the fiscal reserve. Our contribution to the clarification of this topic is that we are not only interested in you telling us by the feathers the fiscal reserve as structure and size of the feathers, but also to give us the very important nuance that you mentioned, by the way, in the previous hearing about the analytical view on the fiscal reserve, namely the feather structure. But for each item, what part of it is cash, what part of it is receivables, and hence, of course, the residual balance of the single account, for which, as we know, in recent months is actually negative, because it is an equalizing amount. Our question is to give us the structure of the fiscal reserve by feathers, the size of these feathers, just like how much we have in cash and what part we have as receivables. That's our question. The reason for this question is our concern that although as a total size, the individual feathers and the fiscal reserve look as a whole well, which you mentioned already around eight and if I am not fooled by the memory half a billion leva at the moment. The actual cash availability available to the State in order to be able to make payments on an ongoing basis is likely to be significantly lower than the size of the fiscal reserve itself and this could lead to the harassment of state payments and an urgent need for debt. The word "emergency" is a key one. That's our concern. I hope it turns out to be groundless, but we'd love to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Minister, you have ten minutes to inform the National Assembly of the issues at the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ganev! The cash holdings of the State budget are an effective figure which is influenced by the budget balance and operations in the part of the funding for the relevant period. In terms of the budget balance, the indicators in the part of the revenue, expenditure, transfers and budgetary relations with other budgets and the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union influence. In the part of the financing, the operations of the issuance of debt and other funding indicators have an impact on the cash holdings. All indicators in the part of the funding in the annual plan, including the government budget cash, are linked to the approved general budgetary framework with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021. The funding of the approved deficit under the Consolidated fiscal programme for the year amounts to 4.9 billion. lv. and it is intended to be subject to the restrictions imposed on the issuance of a new debt of 4,5 billion. lv. for the year and legal requirements for the fiscal reserve. As of the end of March, the emissions of new debts amounted to around 800 million. BGN, which represents less than 18% of the planned amount of debt, which can be taken over during the year. This shifts a large part of the new debt issues for the second half of the year, which will allow adequate maintenance of the budget approved by the State Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, the budget framework, the cash reserves by the end of the year and will enable the planned expenditure to be financed in full. Stocks available in BNB's left and foreign exchange accounts and commercial banks amount to about 7.8 billion. lv. by 31 March 2021, the new information, you know, is eight and a half billion, of which eight in BNB and 500 million in commercial banks, including 7.3 billion. BGN stocks in the system of the single account and currency accounts in BNB. According to the approved parameters for 2021 under the State budget, the budgets of social and health insurance funds and other central-level budgetary accounts included in the single account system are regularly serviced all current payments. The approved emission parameters "new debt" and other operations in the part of the funding are in line with the resources needed to finance the approved deficit for the year with the estimates of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021, with the consolidated resource in the single account system providing the necessary liquidity. According to preliminary data, the size of the fiscal reserve as of 31 March 2021 is 7.9 billion. BGN, including deposits in BNB accounts and banks of 7,8 billion. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. The amount of the fiscal reserve, which corresponds to point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 41 of the Law on Additional Provisions under the Public Finance Act. By the end of 2021, the fiscal reserve is expected to be higher than the minimum set by the Budget Act for 2021. The specific amount of the fiscal reserve depends on the development of the pandemic, the rate of recovery of our main economic partners from the European Union, as well as political stability. All countries in the European Union, when developing their budgets for 2021, expected the pandemic to be contained by the end of the first half of 2021. Following a delay in vaccination at European level, the emergence of new species and strains cannot yet be said that the pandemic will be contained and measures for businesses and households, as well as the cost of treatment will be completed by the end of the first half of 2021. This alone will lead to the need for an update of the budget of both Bulgaria and other countries of the European Union. This, however, is not necessary for Bulgaria so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to questions from the parliamentary groups. For the first question from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS? You have no question. Do you have a question for the Minister? No question. Is there a question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u156	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Ananiev! My question is specific. You remember a long time ago there were questions here, resignations, dismissals about whether NHIF has obligations to hospitals outside Bulgaria in the European Union or other countries. What are our duties? Is there a payment from the Bulgarian budget currently on these obligations? Is it seven or eight million, as you claimed, or is it more? How much are we paying this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u157	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gechev, great question. I expected this question because this topic has been very speculating lately. Bulgaria's National Health Insurance Fund has no overdue obligations towards any country, to any health insurance fund in the member states of the European Union. We had meetings with each of the countries to which we had a late debt, we made a schedule within two years. If you monitor the implementation of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, you will see that we pre-financed these obligations, the implementation of the budget allowed it without prejudice to the rest of the health insurance payments in the country, so we currently have no overdue obligations. You know that by regulation up to 18 months of payments are not considered overdue. So this is the answer to your question, first. Secondly, I would like to return to a previous statement in which you said that since 2010, there has not been a first quarter of a budget that has a deficit. In my speech to you, I informed you that from 2010 until 2015 each of these years ended with a deficit. Please keep that in mind. On the other hand, you said that now that this government is gone, there will be no opportunity to withdraw debt and deal with current payments that are to be made by the state. And that is not true because with the Budget Act for 2021 you have approved the maximum amount of the loan that can pull the state and the implementation is entrusted to the Bulgarian government. So far, our government has drawn 800 million. BGN, each next government, whether on a regular or official basis, is in full power to withdraw a new loan and to finance the budget deficit of the state. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, in Parliament, we must respect each other, both MPs and ministers, and you are responsible for this. I asked the minister: how much will we pay to hospitals outside Bulgaria this year? Because there were scandals here. You claimed there were only seven or eight of them, and then you fired the man. I'm asking you exactly, not to tell me stories. Give me the number! Come and say five million, 50 million! How many are there this year in the budget to pay off such obligations, not to tell stories from the "Thousand" and one night. [[The National Representative Rumen Gechev addressed President Iva Miteva.]] And when he asks an MP, you'll see if he answers the question or tells us about Mata Hari. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u161	Mr. Gechev, you will have time after that to express your attitude towards the Minister. We're moving on. Do you have a question from the DPS parliamentary group? You don't. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Yes, come in, Mr. Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u162	Thank you. Mr. Minister, a few questions regarding the inviolable funds. Do you consider it a normal practice to take money from inviolable funds such as the NPP, such as the Teacher Fund, such as the National Fund for EU Funds and others, and to use this money to cover budget holes? How useful do you think it is to do so, insofar as these funds have quite other long-term objectives? Don't you think it makes fiscal discipline worse in the long run and it's a dangerous practice, especially if it becomes a norm and not an exception? Would you encourage the next finance minister to use such practice? Thank you. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u163	Ask your question again.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u164	Okay, I'll ask the question again, since the Minister didn't hear it. [[Heckling]] Can I wait for you to finish your phone call? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u165	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u166	In short, do you consider it normal practice to take money from inviolable funds, such as the NPP, Kozloduy, the Teacher's Fund, the National Fund for EU Funds and others, and to use them to block budget holes? Would you encourage the next finance minister to also use this approach in the long and short term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u167	I think I have already answered this question by saying that of all the funds that are in the fiscal reserve, only the Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system is targeted and cannot be used for anything else. Therefore, it is placed in a separate account and can be spent only on the purpose for which it was created. The other funds serve liquidity. This does not mean that money is taken from these funds. Analytical reporting shall be kept, but the available resource shall be used to cover temporary budgetary expenditure until the proceeds are incurred and recovered there. This is a liquid resource to be used. In my explanation, I just said: is it right, since we have a liquid resource over 5 billion. BGN, should I go out and take out a loan to pay interest on? But that doesn't mean that the money is taken from the nuclear funds or the Cashier or the NSI or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u168	Thank you. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Is there a wish for a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ananiev, my question is very brief. What is the estimated value of the cash deficit at the end of the financial year on a quarterly basis and how will it be financed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u171	First, to respond to Professor Gechev, 85 million are provided for in the budget of the Cashier for payments to external funds. I hope you're happy. How will the budget end by the end of this year? At this stage of implementation of the budget and if we manage to control the pandemic during the summer months and do not continue this pressure on hospital and outpatient assistance in relation to COVID-19, the budget will be implemented within the envisaged budget deficit of 3.9%, with the fiscal reserve at the end we cannot break the Budget Act, it cannot be less than 4,5 billion. lv. We've never been to this minimum level before. I hope we'll be over this year too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u172	Thank you. We move on to the second issues from the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS. I won't. There is such a people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u173	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, honourable colleagues! My question is: because you said that remuneration for all front-line persons in the fight against COVID has been paid, I know that workers in social services have not been paid. And there were mass contaminations there, and they were turned into hospitals. Do you intend to pay them and whether they are provided for in the following costs for the next quarter?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Peneva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u175	Frankly, I have no information not to pay the net 1000 leva. to none of the employees both in the health system and in the social system. The mechanism by which we pay them is very simple. Each month, after the month is over, we receive the request from the relevant head of a service, whether a hospital, whether a GPS, whether social services, or homes for elderly people, people with disabilities. This information is processed and every month is paid. We have never had a deficit in paying these wages before. Fortunately, for next month we also do not foresee a deficit, so payments are going normally. If you have any particular reason for any social service, give it to me. I'll talk to Mrs. Sacheva so we can fix this mistake, but I don't have that signal so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u176	Thank you. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u177	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm going to ask you again the question I asked you in the previous hearing, as I'm going to correct it now. I'm not happy with the answer you gave me. Specifically: what is the amount of expenditure incurred on decisions made by the Council of Ministers on this alone, not provided for in the budget from 1 January to 31 March? What part of them is really about anti-coffid measures? As I ask you very much, the money spent with PMS for repairing roads for repairing schools yes, it is really very important, but agree, it is not possible for a road that has not been repaired for 30 years, now suddenly there is a need for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u178	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u179	Thank you, Madam President. This is the first time I've had to repeat clearly the answer I've given before, but I'm going to have to do it this time. First of all, for a species of measures. I made it clear that from 1 January this year to 31 March this year, expenditure of 1 billion has been incurred. 345 million. lv. I gave them to you as a breakdown of how much for households, how much for businesses, how much for public organizations that deal with the organization to fight against the cavities. I hope you remember that. The second thing I have read to you I have told you since the beginning of the year what decrees have come out and what amounts, by dividing them into two. One is those which are envisaged in advance due to objective circumstances that they cannot be made available in advance under the budget concerned. We expect certain indicators and indicators on the basis of which we make the correction. What you're interested in is the other amounts I also told you. lv. I gave a brief description of these 260 million. BGN, which are included in this list of all decrees. There's no waste. Everything is urgent and urgent. Again I say to you: go to these people, I will give you the list, and ask them: Did this have to be done; under what conditions they lived; did they drink clean water; did they have sewerage; did they have roads from one neighborhood to the other; and a number of other things - schools, kindergartens? You didn't mention that we had serious investments in terms of financing, repair, restoration and restoration of churches and monasteries. We take care not only of people's physical health but also of spiritual health. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u180	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. From the DPS parliamentary group? You have no question. From the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ananiev, colleagues! My question, of course, steps on some of your answers so far with the idea of moving things forward. How much do you think it would be useful for Bulgaria to publish this analytical reporting, which leads to different feathers, and at any given moment you know what is cash availability, which is taking from somewhere else, to publish, say, at the end of every Friday, as is the balance of management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u183	Mr. Ganev, since we have it as analytical reporting, I see no problem in publishing this information. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u184	Thank you. From the parliamentary group, stand up! Goons out! Mrs. Capon, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Ananiev, I will return to the figures published in BNB. On 2 April 2021, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from As you have already made it clear that there are different banks around half a billion, so there are 7.7. Of course, in the coming days, the increase in numbers, the money received is most likely funds, as you said, from a concession at Sofia airport. 660 million. It seems almost inconceivable how has the reserve itself increased by 2 billion of taxes in just 3 days? It should be borne in mind that this money is about 6.5 billion funds that should not be used by the government because they are part of different funds, which we have already specified, but are clearly used for current needs, which is wrong in my opinion. In this regard, it is speculation that the reserve is twice the minimum threshold almost because it is clear that this threshold is too low and should currently be at least 6.5 billion. BGN, as for the inviolable funds. And lastly, speaking of reserve size, it's best to use relative numbers and proportions. And they show that at the end of 2014, to which GERB like to refer in relation to the management of Oresharski, the reserve was 8.2 billion, but this was more than 10% of gross domestic product. Until now it's about 7%. There is definitely a game of data, but there is a lot of dynamics at the moment and it is not clear which data are relevant, and we will clarify that in the Commission. My question to you is: how do you comment on the numbers and these 2 billion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u186	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Capon, I have participated in hundreds of hearings and questions, but for the first time in my life I have to answer questions that I have explained them! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] First, we start with the figures that you mentioned - April 2nd and 9th. I explained in my initial statement that in the first ten days of each month, more costs are incurred than revenue is made. The revenue starts after the 13th. 14th number, after the declaration of taxes and their submission. For pensions only to the 7th, over 1 billion and 100 million spending limits are allocated. Take out how much you said there. Five whole, i.e. out of seven whole take out a billion and a hundred and you will see that only this cost leads to 5.9 billion. [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]] Excuse me? [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]] Noooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo! You had it last year. Of course there is. But last year, the pandemic started in mid-March, and it wasn't a pandemic, it was the beginning of the trial, and now all these three months... [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u188	Mrs. Capon!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u189	...are full of expenditure related to the government's socio-economic measures. How did they grow by a billion or two? Well, open up to see what the VAT is, for example, the annual amount, make an account of about one twelfth of how it comes, and not only the VAT, there are other taxes and non-tax revenue, and you will find out how in this period revenue increases with such amount. You must know! That is why I said that the budget process should be familiar with its technology, which is related to the deadlines for spending and revenue making. [[Bourney applause from GERB SDS]] Well, I've said that a few times today! Let's do some serious analysis! We'll help if you want. I'll help you with whatever you need so you can get into government faster. [[Woman applause from GERB SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. We move on to expressing the attitude of the parliamentary groups to the Minister's answers. From the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! The parliamentary group of GERB-SDS expresses its positive attitude towards the so-called accurate and correct responses by Mr. Ananiev. Obviously, a country which, before emergency situations occurred, could boast that it was part of the top 5 of the fastest growing economy in the European Union, can manage its budget well. Many opinions were expressed from this tribune by some speakers who took the most of the words, but if we remember back in the years from the height of their academicity, they have done irreparable damage to the Bulgarian budget. And that in a period of 1995 " 1997," but let's not go in there, because it will destroy the theory of finding in the hypothesis of failure of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] They are not status quo, but since 1995 they have ruled. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] But we cannot fail to address a very important topic, and for the reason that the parties represented here are parties that are in a coalition or not so much, they are voting to govern the state. However, some of these parties, led by their concerns, do not comment on the topic related to their own violations of the Bulgarian budget, namely, overcharged or illegally taken funds, the so-called party subsidies, the Bulgarian Socialist Party, for example, the DNB, for example. So, colleagues, when we talk about starting a clean slate, we need to start fresh from ourselves. We must look into the beam in our own eyes to find the straw in others. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Because our contribution to the general welfare of the state is no less important than the initiative and interpretation of the government. And the fact that there are currently millions of parties due to the budget, now here with their professorship to show how unstable the Bulgarian budget was, I repeat a budget which made the state to be in the top rankings of economic development, the lowest levels of unemployment in the European Union, full coverage of the Maastricht criteria, is simply cynical. [[BSP's line for Bulgaria: "Why are you lying?"]] Thank you. [[GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u192	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. From the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" will you express your attitude to the Minister's answers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u193	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Ananiev, because you said that payment was not refused, there were many tests with positive results and no service in Sofia was paid. It's about first-line remuneration. [[Noise and lines. Line by Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u194	Please be quiet! Please, Minister, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u195	We will send you specific names, but those we know about. [[Reply from Ministers Kiril Ananiev and Kostadin Angelov.]] I want to prepare a complete list...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u196	Gentlemen of the ministers!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u197	...I don't want two names, because there's a lot of them. [[Replicates from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u198	There's too many of them! There are many of them, and none of them were paid for.. crisis centers, 24-hour services for adults and people with disabilities. They weren't paid! [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Please! For children with disabilities, social workers, infected... [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u199	Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u200	...with positive tests. None of them received a reward. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Peneva. Mr. Popov, come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u202	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, and our rules say that in procedural matters the word is given immediately. So the way you're leading it. Mr. Georg Georgiev, when honest lies are uttered here from this tribune, I am referring to the previous Mr. Georg Georgiev, you must interrupt him because he is looking all over Bulgaria. First of all, BSP does not owe a penny to the treasury, one penny does not owe the exact opposite of what Mr. Georgiev said. Secondly, here is the minister who gave this money to the parliamentary parties. He's responsible! We didn't go to ask for that money. It's the Ministry of Finance's fault, and you all know that. So when such honest lies are spoken out of this tribune, you should interrupt the speaker, at least make a remark to him to stop lying from the tribune of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u203	Mr. Popov, this is not the way to lead. I think we explained in the morning what a way to conduct is! You must state the specific violation of the Rules of Procedure I have committed! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria...................................................................................................... Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u204	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we are, of course, not satisfied with the answers, although they have done a job.. they gave information to the Bulgarian public what is the actual state of the Bulgarian budget. There are some wonders here too. First, the Minister explained that Bulgaria is the only country in the world in which budget revenues grow at COVID-19. A miracle of miracles! There's a crisis, there's unemployment, companies going bankrupt, and they're growing compared to last year! And this confirms our thesis for years that the budget is deliberately wagering lower budget revenues so that they can be refilled and can be reassigned at the end of the year from the trunk of Mr. Borisov's SUV. This is the first conclusion that is categorical. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u205	Mr. Ananiev! Mr. Ananiev, don't take the floor! I didn't give it to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u206	The second conclusion regarding the fiscal reserve. Is it true, Minister, that you publicly said that you could not give a report on the fiscal reserve for the end of 31 March, as you have information by the end of February? You said it! We explained to you from this tribune that you should have cash information every day at 5:15. And today you confirmed it! Furthermore, we ask you what the fiscal reserve is as of March 31st, as we also went to school and we know that the fiscal reserve is changing. You explained there are payments at the beginning of the year, others at the end of the year. However, you did not want to explain that in fact this fiscal reserve, which you have reported here for years, is in relatively good condition because you have taken huge loans. But 16 billion. lv. you voted 2015 and then you are voting 4.5 billion. lv.! Well, Grandma knows how to make a fiscal reserve like that. If you now take 4.5 billion, there are 3.5 billion left, the fiscal reserve will blow up, here they will come from London School of Economics to study what you are doing in Bulgaria, as they will be very surprised. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] Next thing you know... [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u207	Mr. Ananiev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u208	...what should be clear is that this going government is saying: firstly, we will not bring the Recovery and Sustainable Development Plan after us and the flood. Secondly, we will not draw any debts in relation to the Budget Act 2021, as the flood follows us. And if there are new elections, if there is a office, there is no way to borrow new loans. So, first of all, you are making shments of drips with the fiscal reserve and, second of all, minimizing the Republic of Bulgaria for the coming months. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u209	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. From the DPS parliamentary group, Mr. Tsonev. [[Reply from Minister Kiril Ananiev.]] Mr. Ananiev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u210	Honourable President, Honourable Ministers in Retire, honourable Members! Our parliamentary group did not participate in the second hearing procedure of Minister Ananiev because it literally duplicated the first and, in our opinion, was absolutely unnecessary. However, at the end of today's hearing, we would like to express our concern on several points. The discussion on the state of the budget and the upcoming expenditure must continue in the Budget Committee, and in the Chamber in the remaining ten-fifteen days, if a cabinet is not drawn up, because, given that we enter into the hypothesis of a service cabinet, which is very likely, we need to be absolutely sure that the office will be able to perform the functions assigned to it by the Constitution. We must be absolutely sure that he will be able to do so without violating the State Budget Act. We need to be absolutely sure that certain reserves are not exhausted. We need to be absolutely sure that we need to be able from certain reserves or buffers to find money for early elections. Because, as you well know, the Minister will confirm, there is no money in the budget for early parliamentary elections. So there are issues that are hanging in the air, and we need to answer, and not if we can't form a cabinet within this Parliament, to throw the hot potato in the Presidency and say, "Well, that's how much they can do!" And when we do the Election Code, we also have to bear in mind what costs we will be putting into these elections, machines and so on, not saying sections, everything. And when we are about to see the next 72 bills, of which 70 are probably social, let us consider one thing: in this budget there is not a penny for new social expenses, for benefits for the Bulgarian families, for the Bulgarian citizens, for the Bulgarian disabled with the greatest respect I refer to them, if there is irony in my words, it is to the importing bills. Because it is obvious to our parliamentary group that a large part of these bills have an election character. It's an election character! We need to think carefully about whether we should look at them at all, because if we're gonna rock the country to make some pre-election PR, it doesn't suit us, they didn't send us here for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u211	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. From the parliamentary group of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u212	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I would like to thank you, and for this hearing, I think today, both of them, have been very helpful. Our attitude towards what is happening today in Parliament is positive. We have a slight regret that it couldn't happen on Friday. And you were here, and your time was lost. On the issues, I will take account of both of which we discussed today. What we draw as a conclusion in view of the situation. Firstly, there is room for budget placement, as long as there is no complication with the pandemic, in the adopted framework of the Budget Act for 2021, without necessarily having to change Secondly, there will certainly have to be a debt issued, as provided for in this budget, that is, as the previous Parliament predicted and bet in the budget. One debt will have to be drawn, which in its largest amount could go to 3.7 billion more. So it won't be unexpected, it won't be new, it won't be someone's discretion, it won't be someone's political will, it has to be done! So it won't be: someone comes in who can't rule, and suddenly raises the debt of the state. It's on the budget, and it's going to have to be done. Hopefully, there will be smaller needs in order not to be a complication in the pandemic, for God's sake. Another thing we take as a lesson from the discussion on both topics today is that we have a problem with structuring the way the executive is given the right to spend the money on Bulgarian citizens. Here, our parliamentary group is far from alone in the opinion that there should be greater parliamentary control, with a greater level of concrete on the costs that the executive takes to do.. I absolutely quote Mr. Tsonev, who very well said it. The problem is not that there is something illegal that has been solved, the problem is that the law solves this thing, and the spirit of the parliamentary republic requires these things to be resolved in parliament. I would just like to remind you more than 10 years ago, at the initiative of Mr. Martin Dimitrov, our colleague, the then Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski, when at the end of a year there was a surplus to be made, it was ultimately decided that he would come to parliament and almost individually, on a feather, to receive approval for these costs. Yeah, there was a surplus, yeah, you could've spent some money. It had to be passed through parliament. That's what we want from now on, too. And the third thing that we are taking out of today's discussion is that Mr. Ananiev is a man with undisputed experience and expertise, there is no problem with the fact that analytical accountability is made public. I hope that such a proposal will receive sufficient support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u213	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. And from the parliamentary group, stand up! Come on in, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u214	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! The discussion was useful. She went well at first and quite concrete data came out. Unfortunately, towards the end began to look like that conversation from the punks with the endless bragging about who did what, how many meters of asphalt, how many bus stops and I don't know what else. But let's stick to the facts. What has become clear today is: first of all, that the fiscal reserve is moving towards the critical minimum, I do not see who can challenge this, and that the only way to maintain it is with new loans. I think that's made it clear to everyone in this room. Secondly, it became clear that without a budget update it will be difficult to pass this year. You say, yes, it would be necessary if the pandemic were complicated. Even if the pandemic stops tomorrow, the economic consequences of it will last at least a year longer, perhaps more than a year, and we should be ready for this because the budget deficit, because the budget problems do not come from the disease they come from its economic dimensions, and they do not stop with a magic stick and they will not end tomorrow. So the cheerful conclusion that this budget can be implemented somehow does not seem particularly credible to us. And thirdly, it becomes clear that the update, whether or not it will be made by this National Assembly, whether any next National Assembly, naturally it is not within the powers of a public office, the update will eventually have to pay off the election spending from the beginning of this year, but will not allow for a new policy, for new priorities of a next National Assembly or this National Assembly, and for a subsequent government which largely condemns this budgetary year to the periods in which it has already been put. That is, an update in the coming months will not allow new priorities in budgetary policy. These conclusions, unfortunately, are not particularly positive for the way the country's budget has been managed since the beginning of this year, if you will, and for the way it has been made, because if someone thought at the end of last year that the epidemic is coming to an end, that economic growth and development is coming to an end and everything will be in honey and butter, obviously they didn't think much. This calls for the conclusion that the budget currently implementing the government was an election budget which was clear from the very beginning; it means that cheerfully and courageously spent in the first few months, because if we do a comparative analysis, cyclically compared to this one last year, it will immediately become clear, without any grounds for waiting for more revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u215	I did that analysis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u216	You did this analysis, and that's what it says. According to you, no, but we think it is. So the prospect of updating, I repeat, leads us to nothing better, because the state resources will have no new priorities. We'll just have to pay off the previous management accounts by the end of this year at the cost of new loans, some of which have already been spent, because filling the fiscal reserve with loans means that something has already been spent, something is missing there already. This is our assessment of today's discussion. It was useful because the facts became clear because, unlike that conversation of the punks, where everyone can boast to passersby, here the conversation is held in the Chamber of the National Assembly, the questions are actual and meaningful and the facts are present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u217	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. That concludes the second hearing. This has exhausted our programme for today, but the Minister of Health is in the Chamber and wants the floor to inform us on a specific issue. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament! I asked for the floor in relation to the many speeches related to the National Operations Headquarters. I am extremely pleased that today I see everyone very calm and as if the mind is beginning to return more and more. [[Radio in the BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] From the very beginning of the pandemic and now I claim that the pandemic in Bulgaria can be controlled with three things: with reason, intelligence and discipline. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Only one and only one can stand up and defeat the Covid-19 pandemic. [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] For several days I have heard how different representatives of different political parties offer members of the National Operational Headquarters, have ideas about its functions, its composition and its actions. If you really believe that the National Operations Headquarters is the body that can effectively manage the pandemic in the Republic of Bulgaria, very please give your proposals for members of the National Operational Headquarters in the way you stated them in the towers of the National Assembly. There were opinions that surgeons could not manage the pandemic, and I claim that the pandemic has so far been managed successfully. And that's visible to all the numbers that show this my statement. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We've managed to get out of the third wave successfully. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There has been a claim that people will be given professionals, infectiouss, epidemiologists, as members of the National Operational Headquarters. Let us be responsible to the Bulgarian citizens. Tomorrow, the National Operations Headquarters and I, as Minister of Health, will give another briefing to inform the Bulgarian society. Please, if today is possible, let the National Assembly decide and give members of the National Operational Headquarters, who by the end of the day to be constituted. We can really show together that we are united, really thinking and doing what we say and not just talking. Thank you, everyone. Have a good day and a successful job! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-04-21.u219	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I announce the next plenary session on 22 April 2021, tomorrow, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
