ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u1	Dear colleagues, good morning! Please check the quorum. Colleagues, sign up. It's 206 registered. We have a quorum, colleagues. I'm opening the meeting! [[PHONE RINGING]] First of all, I present to you the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for this week 8 "1." Hearing of the Minister of Culture Velislav Minekov on the grounds of art. 110 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in connection with actions of the executive, concerning the activity of one of the oldest private media. Importers sandar Ivanov and a group of MPs from GERB-SDS parliamentary group from 6 December 2021. 2. Draft decision for the election of the Temporary Commission for the Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We are continuing the Change. 3. Draft decision on the election of the Temporary Commission for the adoption of Rules for Remote Participation in the National Assembly meetings for Members of the National Assembly placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19. The point is first for Thursday, 9 December 2021. 4. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly for Thursday, 9 December 2021, at 12:00. 5. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly for Friday, 10 December 2021, at 9.00 p.m. Dear colleagues, please vote! Vote 223 MPs: for 218, no objection, abstention 5. The programme project is being adopted. In view of the discussion discussed at the Conference of Presidents this morning at 8.30 and on the basis of art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we adopt a decision by which tomorrow's meeting starts at 11.00 and not at 9.00 as per the Programme, as otherwise there will be a major interruption between the examination of the first point for tomorrow, which is the Draft Decision on the adoption of rules for remote participation, and then the blitzcontrol, which should start at 12:00, as it takes place at the last two hours of the meeting. Opinions on that, guys? Let's move on to the vote. Vote 219 MPs: 206, against 4, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Tomorrow's session will begin at 11:00. Now I ask the people's representative Nikolai Subev to order the stand to take an oath. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] Mr. Subev, I'll take the oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Dear colleagues, we are continuing with several announcements. Draft and draft resolutions from 3 to 7 December 2021 including: Draft decision imposing a moratorium on certain actions by state authorities. Importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. A bill to implement and supplement the Youth Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law supplementing the Law on ratification of the Convention adopted by the Council in accordance with art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union, on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and the Protocol drawn up by the Council in accordance with art. 34 of the Treaty on European Union to the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ratification of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Additional Protocol thereto, the Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons and the European Convention on Extradition with the two Additional Protocols thereto. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Assessment of the implementation of the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and Draft Decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer Kostadin Kostadinov and group of MPs. Draft decision on the election of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of a draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We are continuing the Change. Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules for Remote Participation in the National Assembly meetings of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19. Importers - Lena Borislavova and a group of MPs. A bill on covered bonds. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The drafts and drafts for a decision are published on the website of the National Assembly and will be distributed by committees after the committees are set up. Also, honourable Members, on the basis of art. 89, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I present to you the following references: 1. Reference to the authorities and members of the authorities whose term of office has expired, for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force: - the election of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army "9 members," including Chairman, Vice-President and Secretary; - the election of a Chair and four members of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data; - selection of Chief Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council; - selection of ten inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council; - the election of a chairman and member of the sector of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission; - selection of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control; - choice of governor of the Bulgarian National Bank; - selection of a sub-manager of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank; - selection of a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank, Head of the Management of the Bulgarian National Bank; - selection of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute; - election of a judge at the Constitutional Court; - election of the Board of Fiscals - five members, including Chairman. 2. Reference to members of the bodies whose term of office has been terminated early and for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the legislation in force. - election of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council for the Prosecutor's College; - the selection of a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means and of a Vice-President by the members of the Bureau; and - selection of a member of the Commission for public oversight of registered auditors. 3. Report on non-constitutional bodies for which the National Assembly should hold elections under the current legislation: - election of Chairman and six members of the National Council for Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ was provoked by the dangerous precedent with which the forty-seventh National Assembly began its work, namely yesterday the Conference of Presidents rejected the proposal of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDZ in the buildings of the National Assembly to enter with a green certificate, antigen test or PSR test. This decision, honourable Members of the majority of change, by its nature, has several consequences or aspects. First of all, perhaps it defines who in this country is considered to be anointed or chosen. Those who do not wish to comply with the measures, the laws, the regulations, the orders, seem to be the only ones in this Chamber. Secondly, it has been proven that the oath to respect the Constitution and the law probably for a part of you was not important as ministers, but as MPs, at the moment. Thirdly, not only is the double standard a norm for you, but you also show that you do not respect the work of the Bulgarian doctors who have been struggling with the pandemic for two years now, the grief of all those who have lost their loved ones and relatives, but also the human life and health of your colleagues working in the administration, journalists have no meaning. I wonder how it is possible to think that double standards and requirements should be norm from now on? For the anointed, they can enter without a certificate, without a PSR test, without an antigen test, and for all other working Bulgarians who have been lining up for months early in the morning to have tests to visit their jobs, for all other Bulgarian children who for months have not visited the educational establishments or are now required every morning at the beginning of the week according to the order of the Minister of President Radev, which you very much support, to spit in bags, or people who are wondering how to pay for their antigenic and PSR tests. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, the new morality of politics? You said just days ago that there would be a new meaning in the words of the MP. Obviously, the new meaning of the word is: for the MPs there can be one rule, for all other Bulgarians are another. As of yesterday, I have heard another tract that the imposition of compliance with certain measures according to the Minister's orders under the Health Act would help to usurp the power or this would be equal to a coup d'état, because the MPs would be unable to access the building of the National Assembly. Let me tell the gentlemen who believe that in some way there is a danger of a coup d'état that within forty-fifth, forty-sixth and forty-fourth National Assembly acts an order of the President of Parliament, the Minister of Health and the National Assembly has repeatedly taken a decision for the remote participation of MPs in his work. In this sense, and on the agenda of the National Assembly's Work Programme this week, there is an item on the agenda for all colleagues who will be quarantined with a COVID-19 or who do not wish to submit a green certificate, a PSUR and an antigen test. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it will be fairest. Not only because it is time for the National Assembly and we as MPs with our personal example to show that in Bulgaria there is no double standard and the requirements that we lay against Bulgarian citizens apply to everyone. Not just for them outside this building, but for everyone. Therefore, I propose that, honourable President, the National Assembly urgently discuss two types of Draft Decision: or oblige the Minister of Health in Order No RD 01 973 of 26 November 2021 to be included as a separate object from the public purpose of the National Assembly's building and access to the same building to be subject to general regulation, i.e. the access of all members of the National Assembly to it to be explicitly included in the Order with the presentation of a document for vaccination, illness or examination within the meaning of the Order and the Health Act, or the second type Draft Decision, Dear President, the National Assembly to oblige the Minister of Health in the same Order to revoke for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the requirement for the presentation of a green certificate for all sectors described in detail in Order No RD 01-973 of the Minister of Health, and to withdraw all restricted activities referred to therein. In short, Mr President, honourable Members, I propose that the National Assembly take a decision regarding an important issue which clearly gathers serious public discontent, firstly, with regard to the different standards; secondly, with regard to the contradictions during all these months and with regard to the application of the Order; and thirdly, with regard to the fact that today there are again over 100 Bulgarian citizens who died yesterday were 208, the sick in several consecutive days are over 2,000. Either we of the heights of the institution we represent and the trust of the Bulgarian citizens to make a decision that will apply to everyone, or I believe that our behaviour could not be measured for this in the new sense of the words MP. Thank you for your attention. Mr. Chairman, I will provide both projects for a solution. At your discretion, please put them on the agenda for tomorrow's or Friday's plenary session. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. For a declaration from the Parliamentary Group of ARCHIVErs, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u6	It's nice when this parliamentary tribune talks about justice. It is fair to note that the work cabinet's actions are currently going on, unfortunately, quite successfully the policy of the GERB government, which last year introduced brutal restrictions in the rights and freedoms of citizens and introduced the first prisons of the state. Then on 14 May 2020, Bulgaria held the first huge rally against the introduction of such restrictive measures not only in our country, but also in Europe. At this time it is right to say that it is not possible and it is not right for the MPs and the building of parliament to enjoy some different status than that of all other institutions and public institutions introduced in the Order of Katsarov. Therefore, it is right to ask ourselves why Katsarov did not seek, did not ask and first received the possibility of introducing a green certificate into his own ministry? Why is there no green certificate for the municipalities, for the district governments and for all other public institutions, to say, for example, the courts, the prosecution and any other form of state institution? However, this is in practice a very serious restriction and disabling of fundamental civil rights. That is precisely why we from the AGE think that it is right not to seek a solution from the will of one person, because what we heard in GERB's declaration was Katsarov to decide. No. Who is Katsarov to decide? The Bulgarian people must decide. That is precisely why it is right, if we think that Bulgaria is still a democratic state, to look for two options of a decision or parliament as a representative of the Bulgarian people to decide, or the Bulgarian people as the supreme sovereign in a referendum to rule on the annulment or continuation of these discriminatory measures. We at AGE think that the best solution in this case is a referendum, because it is also the most representative, and we believe that it is also the most legally supported. Many times, including within this building, it has been said that Bulgarians do not understand their fundamental rights and freedoms, so it is nice for someone else to decide instead. It is high time the Bulgarians were asked. The decision which we think is most normal and which will put an end to all disputes about who is right and who is wrong, because in Bulgaria is only right and only the Bulgarian people as sovereign and as the owner of the state, it is high time for this question to find its answer. Because we can't afford it from here on out for months, or I don't know how much longer to comment on a subject that actually creates only and only problems. This hypocritical concern, which I heard in GERB's declaration, is really not very pleasant. Every week hundreds of thousands and millions of Bulgarians pay their tests. In the initial declarations of Radev's government it was said that the tests would actually be free. Yes, they're free, but manipulation itself is not free. And depending on whether the manipulation is done in one laboratory or another, it costs between BGN 7 and BGN 15. of experience. These attempts or tests are done twice a week, which means that for people who work on minimum wage, that is 80 BGN. spending a month, which is a tax, so you can go to work. There's something like this in our story I don't know yet. That is precisely why we believe that it is appropriate to stop this madness once and for all. We should not and should not have different status, we should not and should not set such an example. That's why we think the green certificate should be dropped for everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Colleagues, we are moving to item one of the agenda for today: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE CULTURE GREAT MINECOV OF THE BOOK. 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH THE ACTS OF THE EXECUTIVE POWERS IN THE WORK OF ONE OF THE MOST OLD PARTICULAR MEDIA. I request that the proposer make a statement within five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u8	Honorable Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow a procedure first. Since the next question directly affects the relationship between the media and the executive power in Bulgaria, I propose that this debate and the hearing of Mr. Minister be broadcast on Channel 1 of BNT and on the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u9	Is there a procedural proposal in the opposite sense? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u10	Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a reverse proposal. I don't know how long we're gonna keep wasting time on Channel 1 and all those licenses that the Bulgarian National Television has bought to broadcast on Channel 1? This is money to the taxpayer who gave the money for the program licenses that are being broadcast on Channel 1. I therefore propose that it remain Channel 2 as we voted in the previous National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. We are voting on the proposal whether to move to BNT 1 and BNR. They voted 203 MPs: for 96, against 88, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u12	May I make a motion for a re-vote, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u13	You can make an offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u14	My fellow Members, I fully agree with what Mr. Karimansky said. If you follow the minutes of the past National Assembly, you will see, I almost always vote against when we are proposed to broadcast on Channel 1. However, the case is slightly different and it is a direct clash between executive power and media. I believe that this issue concerns not only the media college, but is of particular importance, and therefore I ask you once again to think about and vote on at least this topic to be broadcast on Channel 1. Then we can stop and not harass the dear spectator with our glamorous presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u15	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 212 MPs: 97 against 89, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u16	Thank you. Honorable Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! I would like to begin this presentation by clarifying a cultural term. The term is "cognitive dissonance." You can read what it means on Wikipedia. Basically, it's a misconception between self-imposition and reality. I'm not going to interpret it exactly scientifically. I'm going to compare it to the events of the last days when the Minister of Culture is the main hero. So, Minister of Culture, leading police officers, is cognitive dissonance as content. As a form could also be a plot for a tapestry, but as a content is exactly this suppose cognitive dissonance. [[Laughter at GERB-SDS.]] I, Minister, am almost as long a journalist as you are a sculptor. In my journalistic practice, I have seen several militiamen wishing to be cultural ministers. But a cultural minister to dream and act like a militiaman I see for the first time. [[Applause and laughter by GERB-SDS.]] It's a novelty, believe me! It's happened in history. It's happened in the history of the Soviet Union, it's happened in the history of the Third Reich, and it's probably also happened in other stories that cultural ministers lead police officers. This is the first time in Bulgarian history. Really, I checked. Even in Zhivkov's time, it never happened. It is really new for Bulgaria, so I congratulate you. Now for the particular case. Whatever dispute, honourable Members, there is a minister of culture with one media, it is appropriate to settle this dispute in a cultural manner without the help of the police. Moreover, as far as I know, Mr. Minister, your dispute with the newspaper is currently in court at the Supreme Administrative Court. Therefore, aside from the innovation to send the police to close one of the oldest continuing newspapers in Bulgaria, it is nice to understand the legal basis on which you address the court and the police rather. Because the execution of an administrative order challenged in a court of law does not imply police involvement. It is good to know from you, Mr. Minister, and in your capacity of what on your behalf did Mr. Svetoslav Traykov appear on this stage? As far as I am concerned, if I am wrong, I will apologize immediately. This gentleman is an active collaborator of one of the brightest fake news sites in Bulgaria. You probably really hate Petyo Bluskov to send just such a person to close the oldest coming newspaper in Bulgaria. Generally speaking, Mr. Minister, as a manifestation of cognitive dissonance, your actions were, to say the least, uncultural. I do not call them censorship, because censorship requires some effort, perhaps some reflection, some hesitation, judgment, and not a state of cognitive dissonance, a gap between reality and self-image, in which you often fall not only on this occasion, participating in various performances, spreading coffins and so on. I even have a secret hope that perhaps all that is going on with Trud is not a clash between executive power and a media, but a performance that will end tomorrow with a lesson, with an artistic summary. But I have some suspicion that it is not so, Minister, and I will tell you why. Because your patron Mr. Radev, whose cultural avatar you are already in two offices, at his meeting yesterday said twice, twice the following: "If we had to deal with the media, we would have driven the PIK first. Dear colleagues, the two words are extremely obscene and extremely uncultural. I have no reason to like the ARC website. They probably wrote more insults about me than they did about you. But you and I, honourable colleagues, must do our best, and this is cultural behavior, because the ARC website continues to deal with journalism as it understands it, as far as it does not contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Everything else would be extremely uncultural. I stop with the general justification and go back to the specific questions: with what decision, to which judicial authority did you try to stop the release of the oldest Bulgarian newspaper? You claim they owe you overhead. Can you tell me from what month is the last invoice you sent them to pay for these overheads? How old is he? I'll remind you that just a year ago on the occasion of the stop of the BNR for two hours was it, what, here it was a hell of a fair. There was an emergency committee, months of investigating this scandal, there were fired media people, the CEM came up with a special solution. So the sensitivity on these subjects is serious. One more question: it is only right to clarify to the honourable public representation what exactly is the minister at your ministry and as what does he appear on the stage at the closing of the "Trud"?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u17	The weather, Mr. Dilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u18	Final question, and I'm done. My final question, esteemed, revered, continuing the Change and colleagues you are preparing to manage, is to you. If you really want to shoot yourself in the knee at the beginning of your command...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u19	It's the Minister's question, not the House's.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u20	...reassign Mr. Minister of Culture it is connected to the Minister of Culture and Mr. Rashkov as Interior Minister. You can even switch them if one of them is... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. Applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u21	Mr. Dilov, that's enough! Here you are, Minister, for a response within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This dissonance will probably have to be explained to Mr. Boyko Borisov for three days until he understands what this is about, but it will take effort, yes. [[(Applause from IHN. Replies from GERB-SDS. (Laughter)]] Thank you very much for the honor of standing here today and opening the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. I'm touched, thank you from the bottom of my heart! And one more thing, you're comparing me to Boyko Rashkov. It's an honor, it's a reward. Thank you. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] As a minister in a parliamentary republic, I absolutely agree that media freedom deserves an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, but also as a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria and as a current Minister of Culture, I would like to ask: Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when unprecedented in history in Bulgaria was stopped the signal of the Bulgarian National Radio, which has not stopped even during World War II?! [[Applause.]] Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when the Ministry of Interior and DGBOP seized live servers and equipment of the failed TV7? Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when opposition TV BIT was closed and sold in quotes to an unknown buyer? Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when on the air your coalition partner Valeri Simeonov from the former NFSB threatened journalists to eat their bread and kick their chairs?! Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when within hours the transmission of Milen Tsvetkov and the cartoons of Chavdar Nikolov were deleted even from the YouTube channel of Nova TV?! Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when BNT broadcast false news of gallows and People's Court during the protests in 2020?! Why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when publications such as the Prague Press were placed in the corner and stopped from spreading and we had to get them as we did in France at the time of De Gaulle?! Last but not least, why was there no extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly when children and journalists were beating in front of parliament during the summer protests of last year?! [[(Applause from.. We continue Change......................................................................................]] Who here, as members of the executive, signed contracts under operational programmes with EU funds with which Bulgarian media were completely mastered, and we are now at the proud 112th place in the world in freedom of speech?! [[Noise and lines.]] When will there be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly initiated by the party GERB, which will explain the unprecedented dismissals of Annie Tsolova, Milen Tsvetkov, Martin Karbovski, Miroluba Benatova, Veselin Dremdjiev, Sasho Dikov, Lili Marinkova, the threats against Silvia Velikova and many others who have not complained and have not paid for their free thinking with powerless rabies, time and money?! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Reply from GERB-SDS: Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now each of the parliamentary groups is entitled to two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u24	First procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u25	Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am doing you a procedure in the manner of conduct, and quite well-intentionedly, taking into account the fact that you are for the first time a Member of the National Assembly, you have the high honor and responsibility to lead the National Assembly as the first between equals, so this time you are well-intentioned. First, the practice of the National Assembly has to be respected. For no reason for five or 10, or 20 seconds, it is not interrupted even if the time of a Member of the National Assembly has expired to complete his statement, although the Rules set the time exactly. That's the debate, that's the tradition, that's part of the respect for debate between us. Secondly, you should have made a note to the Minister that this is not an answer to the substance. Thirdly, is this a regular meeting, or is it an emergency? Is it regular?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u27	I think you know it's regular.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u28	Then you should have told him. [[According to Minister of Service Velislav Minekov. Applause by GERB-SDS.]] An emergency meeting, was there an emergency? This is a regular meeting. [[Noise, lines and applause by GERB-SDS.]] So, please, really go into your role, perform not only the Spirit and what is expected here in the Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS. Partial applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm joining Mr. Tsonev's statement and I'll allow myself to further develop it with two more sentences. What we just heard, of course, wasn't an answer. That was a scandalous statement. On all these issues that have affected the appointed minister of service, the National Assembly is the rule of committees of inquiry. However, I would like to ask you, Mr President, the following: you said and we all said that the authority of Parliament must be restored. In order to restore the authority of parliament, first of all, it must be started by the ministers. Ministers must start learning to respect parliament. Therefore, I ask you to evict the minister present here, ask him to prepare an answer to the questions he has been asked, and then come back and stop the hearings on this point. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB-SDS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u31	Quiet, please! Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. As Chairman, I do not have the opportunity to comment on the answers on the substance of the Minister. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Each parliamentary group will have five minutes to express its attitude to the answers put at the end of the hearing. Thank you. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u32	Yeah, by procedure? The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, because you said: I am impressed by the reaction of colleagues from BSP because, when they saw Minister Minekov, they thought of GERB. You yourself said that you would not turn the National Assembly into a rubber seal of the executive power, but today you are doing this. That is why BSP colleagues reacted correctly. They saw people sitting here GERB that did GERB, that's what they do and that's what we keep changing. Come on, if you please, really don't let the National Assembly be a rubber seal of executive power. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u34	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u35	On the occasion of Mr. Tsonev's speech, I would like to urge you to follow the Rules and, when the time is up, stop the microphones. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u36	Thank you. Colleagues, we are going to the first round of questions to Minister Minekov in the order of the parliamentary groups, by their size. On behalf of Mr. Atanasov, we continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Minekov, information has appeared that Mr. Blaskov appealed the order of the district governor for seizure. In this regard, my question to you, Professor Minekov, is: why didn't you wait for the trial to be closed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u39	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u40	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u41	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The order of the district governor was appealed before the Administrative Court of Sofia-City, which included a request for suspension of the preliminary execution of the contested order on which the Court owes an immediate ruling. The Court found that none of the claims requesting suspension of the preliminary proceedings were supported by evidence. By two orders of 22 November and 30 November, he rejected the request of the South Cross for suspension of the preliminary implementation. The Court explicitly points out that the company does not contest the fact that it received on 14 July 2021 a letter from the Ministry of Culture giving it one month's notice of termination of the two leases and assumes that it has passed a sufficiently long period of time since the expiry of the notice during which the company could have shown its affairs the care of a good trader. The Administrative Court has scheduled the case for February 2022, i.e. after two months. It is very important to move NIKN to the building of Luchesar Stanchev Street. I'm talking about the Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. This building was built for them. His director has proposed by letter to the Ministry of Culture to carry out such a move, given the fact that there is a change in the structure of NIKN Gentlemen of Parliament, the Ministry of Culture has no relationship with the newspaper Trud or any other media. We had a relationship, we had a tenant... the company South Cross. I do not comment on the newspaper you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. You are welcome on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, let me begin by congratulating you on your choice and wishing for a controversial job, and really be at the height of the position you have been elected to. I think you can handle it, led by your conscience. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you did not answer the questions asked at the beginning, so I will repeat them. The first question is about the unpaid rentals of the company, the tenant of the room. From published brothel in the page of the newspaper "Trud" it turned out that they had been paid for as long as July and August. Therefore, the legal basis for termination of a contract on the basis of unpaid rentals is terminated as all the rents have been repaid. Hence, the second reason for termination of the early one-month contract notice is for unpaid overheads. Now on the page of the press release, which was published yesterday by the Ministry of Culture, you refer to unpaid overheads for the period 2015 - 2018. Here I leave aside the question of the limitation of similar deadlines for current expenditure. There are plenty of lawyers who know what this is about. Here the issue is now the option of two unpaid accounts, which were issued for September and October by the Ministry of Culture, noting the second is from 30 November, that is, last Tuesday. Since last Tuesday, the second invoice was issued on the basis of which it is most likely to be entered on 6 December at the headquarters or at the premises where the newspaper is housed. So even if he wanted to repay his debts in good faith, he had no time left. That is why the main question is: firstly, these overheads, by the way, which I mentioned, 2015 "2018," according to the newspaper "Trud" they were not provided with such invoices for payment by the Ministry of Culture, when were these invoices provided for the tenant in order to be able to pay them? What's the date? Second, this last invoice of 30 November issued, when was it submitted for payment? By the way, if it is important to you where NIKN will be accommodated, why have you not proposed or approached the next paragraph to dissolve the contract, namely with two-month notice for any other reason? If you had, another July month could have been released this room and NINKN could have been accommodated. Predicted obligations, everyone knows how they can be collected through a state bailiff in this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u44	Time, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u45	...and with a court order. Please answer these questions at least this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a clear account before me of what is due in the period of March 2012. You, Mr. MP, are again asking me about the newspaper "Trud." We at the Ministry of Culture have nothing to do with the newspaper.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u48	About the tenant...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u49	...and when you ask your question correctly about the debts of which they are, I will gladly answer you. I'm looking at the answer. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u50	I said the tenant.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u51	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u52	I was talking about the tenant the whole time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u53	Who's the tenant?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u54	A contract with which a contract has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u55	Who is he? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] You don't know who the tenant is? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please ask me to answer. Ask your colleagues who the tenant is. You don't know who the tenant is? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Please ask me the question correctly! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u56	On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, please come in. [[National Representative Kostadin Angelov wants the floor.]] Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Too much dissonance gathered in this room. I would like to ask a specific question and it is to you in the manner of conduct. Who's running the meeting right now? Do you lead the Assembly, or Minister Minekov, who asks a question and says.?.......................................................................................... to ask the question again again? You have the right to ask the stenogram to make it clear how the question was asked. Who's the tenant and what kind of obligations does he have? Nobody's talking about the newspaper, Trud. If you had listened carefully to Minister Minekov and the MP, you would have made an immediate remark to the Minister. Who's running the meeting...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u58	GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u59	... You, him or anyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u60	Thank you. Yes, Professor Minekov, in the context of his reply, gave an opinion as he found appropriate. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] I can't basically tell him exactly what to answer. You will be able to ask another question within the second round and for a hearing. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Committee on Rights and Freedoms is refusing to ask questions to the minister of the service for the following reason: we really believe that Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and the DPS has always fought in the Bulgarian Parliament for the ministers to know this fact and to respect their employer as we respect our employer. [[Applause from DPS.]] The reason why we give up is the impertinent attitude of this minister today to teach parliament whether he has been doing committees, whether he has not known whether he has dealt with various issues? All the questions you said were addressed in both extraordinary committees and with declarations and with solutions, only ignorance is not an argument, Professor Minekov. This behavior here is absolutely unacceptable to a minister. Therefore, we will not take part in this discussion. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I ask my question, allow me to mention something that is worth noting. In just two days we have witnessed two political miracles. First of all, I saw a GERB party caring about freedom of speech. I never thought something like this would happen. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The party, which brought Bulgaria to 112th place, comes out to perform in defence of journalism. The party that answered us here for four years over and over again that freedom of speech is the work of journalists themselves and that it doesn't matter what the state does because... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u64	Mr. Simov, ask Professor Minekov the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u65	Allow me to mark only the second political miracle.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u66	No, no, give me the question. Two minutes is a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u67	I understand that there is a Council for Electronic Media, which also came up with a position. The Council, which closed its eyes to any gross assault against Bulgarian journalism, now exists.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u68	Question, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u69	My question, Minister. You pointed out that over the years there has been a systematic non-payment of rents, and so I would like to ask you, were there before you ministers who required the tenant of this building to pay the rent and why has no one been involved in this case for so long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u70	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simov, yes, these duties were required. First, they were required by Minister Rashidov, although he has placed this public procurement with one candidate.. you know how convenient this is. [[GERB-SDS noise and lines]] , which led to a rent of BGN 5.50. per square meter at nearly 1 decare area. There's no rent like that in the area, there never was. Ask about the price in the area to find out. After that, Minister of Service Rasko Mladenov again wants these funds to be returned to the Ministry. Unfortunately, they both sleep through that chance, and then the last minister shows up. He received a letter from the Finance Directorate to sign a decision on the repayment of the amounts due. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] It's about Minister Banov, your minister, but he doesn't sign this letter. That's the effect of the whole thing. I promised what belongs to the Ministry, and I will return everything the Ministry has lost over the years. This is not just about this unhappy property, which was intended for one of the greatest institutes in Bulgarian culture. This isn't about stolen two floors. I found an accidental stolen hotel on the sea coast, wonderful, with a pool; I found a stolen building in the center of Sofia, seven floors stolen seven years ago; I also found a stolen car returned, stolen seven years ago, but this is not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of what we are returning to the Ministry. Yeah, we're gonna get everything stolen, you're gonna get everything back to where it belongs, and you're gonna be where you belong. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. Communicating: "Eee! "]] But what's happening today is that we got our stolen country back. Congratulations, everyone! [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. Mr. Bikoff's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! These militia tricks here are threatening us some guy where do we belong...?! Where's the seat says the court. Second of all, from this tribune, it's not good to lie. In the competitions where they first appeared, there were three candidates, the second time two candidates were not with one candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u74	Mr. Bikov, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u75	I call on you, when there are threats to anyone here, even more funny than the Minister of Culture, if you had at least brought Boyko Rashkov to threaten us, it would have been more erotic, but the Minister of Culture is funny.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u76	Thank you. By procedure? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which I conduct it and is almost in the same sense as other Members' procedures in terms of the conduct of the current Minister of Culture. Mr. Chairman, I think we've been having a debate for over an hour now, and you clearly and clearly must have realized your role. Yes, you are the first among equals, but you are the chairman of the forty-seventh National Assembly, and as such you are not only responsible for the order in the Chamber and the building of the National Assembly, you are responsible for making sure that there are no insults, threats and indecent behaviour to a member of the Council of Ministers or to any of the Members of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Chairman, please take measures at last regarding this man's behaviour................................................................................................... [[strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , the Minister of Culture, reminding him that the place of each of these 240 in this Chamber is determined not by him, but by the Bulgarian voter. Only so, Mr. Chairman, will you restore the parliamentaryism that you have very much insisted on, and only so will you show anyone who has dared to insult the National Assembly institution that there is no place in this House! Minekov, out! [[Applause from GERB-SDS. Revelations: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I call on anyone who speaks to do so in a good tone, without qualifications to anyone, without insults and essentially. Thank you. I give the floor to the parliamentary group of "There is such a people" for a question to Minister Minekov. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u79	Mr. Minister, I am curious if there are other similar cases of unlawful use of properties of the Ministry of Culture, such as political parties?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u80	Thanks for asking. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Yordanov, we have such an incident. This is a building, part of the National Palace of Culture, the former PRONO, where the last two floors were taken with the term "deprived necessity." It was done in the time of Mr. Plevneliev with his decision and was then approved by the district governor, former Minister of Justice and the author of the Constitution......................................................................................... I'm sorry he's not with us. It's made so that nothing can happen with regard to the NDK. The NPC is in severe condition, again during the reign of the gentlemen from these lines. The debt is incredible, I don't know how it's gonna be paid. Gradually, the NPC was destroyed by privatization, giving up property in every way. Apparently, it was some kind of trick. It seems that this party was so poor that it couldn't pay for any office and when... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u82	Please, no...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u83	And when we calculated the prices in the area, the rent per square meter, when we calculated the years in which the NPC was deprived of income, that was a loss of nearly 6 million. lv. This is not small in terms of the company's situation. This is a huge amount, and otherwise the debt and depreciation are approaching 90 million. lv. Thank the gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u84	Thank you. By procedure? [[Noise and lines.]] Are you here for a question? The Democratic Bulgaria is next. Here you go, Mrs. Tsoneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! And I would like to begin by stating that this is not really a debate on freedom of speech, nor is it a conversation about Kaloyan Stoev's right to issue his dajibao. This is a debate about the way state property is managed. In this regard, my question, my dear Minister, is: what are the obligations of the tenant to the principal?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tsoneva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tsoneva, here I will read you years-round penalties for unpaid rents and installments, penalties under contracts. Under contract number, I'll then give you the number, numbers and dates, but it's from 2012, missed 45,000. £784. and 87 ct. According to a contract of 9 October 2015, 49 thousand were omitted. BGN 757. and 14. A total of 95 thousand in both contracts. BGN 542. and 1 c. The company has outstanding supplies of 133 thousand. BGN 108. and 81 C.E. Acquired in the period 10 October 2015 to November 2018, which has not been paid up to date. Consumables for September and October 2021 on invoices and BGN 2046,53 respectively. unpaid and 5096.70 leva. Unsuccessful. The penalties and outstanding consumables currently amount to 235 thousand. BGN 794. and 5 c. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minekov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! I was going to ask a specific question. I will save myself from asking it, but I am here to express an opinion provoked by the audacity we observe by the GERB group and by the insolence of the DPS. Once again cynicism to talk about parliamentaryism, about compliance with rules, given that these same people...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u90	Mr. Ganev, the two minutes are for a question to Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u91	Yes, as Mr. Tsonev spoke, so I'm just finishing up in a hurry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u92	Mr. Tsonev made himself known by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u93	This whole thing is insane and it's totally cynical to talk about parliamentaryism from this tribune! You don't respect anything at all! No parliamentaryism when you've been hiding your Prime Minister for years!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u94	Mr. Ganev, the two minutes are for a question to the Minister. It's a procedure. [[Applause from ARGUING.]] The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Apparently, driven by the impertinent behaviour of Mr. Minister, the new colleagues in parliament have decided that they can bring insults from this tribune. In fact, today's meeting and the first point of today's meeting, honourable Members, was about seeing the culture of the minister, all citizens seeing it and remembering that when the Minister of Culture wants to become an interior minister and starting to trample on a company or newspaper, or one company, sooner or later, the order of others will come. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u96	Mr. Manev, it's procedure for the way I'm being led.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u97	So to you and first of all, so on the left side to finally sit in their seats. [[directed to MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And secondly, do not let people, parties, ministers of this tribune be offended. It doesn't contribute to anything. We've seen it, we've seen it. Someone had said, I think that the favorite of part of this House President: I have seen this film. [[Reply on the left: the procedure!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u98	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u99	So don't take offenses from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u100	Thank you. Again, I call you for a cultural tone in the talks. I therefore took the floor in the previous speech, as it was not a matter for the Minister. We're moving on to round two questions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in the interest of clarifying the truth, I would like to ask what exactly is the company that rents the state property? You also expressed some serious amounts over 100,000. lv. for overheads which have not been paid over 3 years and are currently not paid. How were these amounts required by the Ministry of Culture, which is the state in this case? What was done during this period in order to collect the debts due, from which company and what is its relationship with the newspaper.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u102	Thank you for your question. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, you know that I am the first Minister of Culture to ask for what is due in the last 12 years. Mrs. Simeonova, this duty has always been in the Ministry, but it may have been too convenient for some ministers to hear wonderful words for themselves, for their reason and beauty. And this has happened. You'll see what the media reactions are like over the years and find out why. The debt will be repaid, whether by court or voluntary, this will happen. After all, here among you I notice many friends with whom we were together at the protests last year and on the left, and on the right, and here in front of me, we were together. We started a really great work, we woke Bulgaria up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u104	About that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u105	We have awakened Bulgarians throughout the world. And today we have returned to our stolen country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u106	I ask, however, that the question be answered as a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u107	Specifically?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u108	No comments, like...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u109	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u110	...the stolen country.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm sorry to take the floor in the way of conduct, but I'm having a little too much discussion here. We called Mr. Minekov really to answer specific questions and you correctly made a remark to him about this. It's a little too much for me here, these great things that Mr. Minekov was involved in. One of them is for example to take a studio from the totalitarian state, because he didn't realize at the time that there was a dictatorship because he was a great dictatorship fighter. [[Reply of Minister of Service Velislav Minekov.]] And this studio, as I understand it...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u114	I'm lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u115	My procedure is this: when someone talks about dictatorship, it is good to know what dictatorship is. It was a dictatorship before 1989, Mr. Minekov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u116	Mr. Bikov! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u117	It wasn't now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u118	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u119	The procedure is for me. Please! Here's a question for the round of questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's hearing of Mr. Minekov is a disgrace to Bulgarian parliamentaryism. We thought there would be a debate on freedom of speech and about the unprecedented clash between the Bulgarian police and a Bulgarian newspaper, but we actually see an illustration of what will be the political line of change in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u121	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u122	Disrespect for parliamentaryism, disrespect for freedom, disrespect for political opponents, disrespect for democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u123	Question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u124	Where's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u125	Mr. Nikolov, question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u126	The question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u127	I have a brief question for Mr. Minekov and I very much hope that he will be able to answer it, not to give speeches that someone has written in advance. A member of his team, as we understand it, counselor, is Mr. Svetoslav Traykov. This is a man with a rich criminal record who was caught driving drunk, who was tried for it, pleaded guilty and passed probation. This is a man who's being accused of...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u128	Question!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u129	...proportions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u130	You have 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u131	Yes, I do. This is a man who's been tried for hooliganism. This is a man, and this is my question, which on Facebook boasts that he poisons dogs in his spare time. I quote this man: "Well, yes!" [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u132	You have five seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u133	I've got antifreeze in bowls, and that way the mutts are no longer thirsty, and in 20 minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u134	The question! You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u135	...no more barking in the neighborhood. I'd like to ask the esteemed Professor Minekov why this man is part of his team, how he chose him, and does he personally approve of poisoning people's pets?! Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Fake accusations are going around, but with an intellectual development of this type, that's perfectly normal. I still think...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u138	No qualifications, Mr. Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u139	No, why? It is an honor to be intellectually developed, for example, Mr. Manoil Manev...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u140	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u141	And a dignified one!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u142	Please, not like this! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u143	Yes! Lies are told, lies are told in relation to my advisor. He had a conversation with lawyers yesterday. Basically, so far, seven were the things you'd be charged with. That's the least of it. And now I know he's poisoning dogs and eating little kids. And for that, you will be blamed. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] All the information he's been leaking is a lie. Obviously, you're very annoyed with your behavior from the time of the protests against yourself and we won't bother the audience with your nonsense and your fictions. However, I am obliged to say that I am following your development, even your path, your path, your intellectual development. [[(Shouts from GERB-SDS:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u144	Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u145	That's right, yeah. That's dignified.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u146	The answer, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u147	That's dignified.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u148	Answer the question only! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u149	I can only tell you that by observing all this, I think Darwin was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u150	Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u151	For my intellectual development. Mr. Minister, if you were a street slut, you'd be held accountable. If you were an ordinary citizen, you'd go to court. If you were an MP, we'd be talking from this tribune. However, you are a minister of service who has never been to elections, and no one has given you any trust. And what assessments you give Manoil Manev is not important at all. But you allow yourself once again in this House to give assessments, to insult a MP who goes to elections that have votes, even preferential ones, to your surprise. Well, well, well.? Colleagues, when behind the masks you're trying to repeat the words of an appointed man, it's not good. Get out, Mr. former Minister here from the office, and tell me something about my intellectual development. I address the President of the National Assembly and the Members of the Chamber. None of you would want to receive personal qualifications from this tribune. But neither will any of us allow, at least personally, people looking into space with their eyes running and having difficulty holding back from giving personal pleasures, qualifying me in any way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u152	Thank you, Mr. Manev. By procedure, Mr. Zhelyazkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u153	Mr. Chairman, I see we're on our way to the end of this hearing. It was not, in fact, what is in the Rules of Procedure that we all desire or advise one another to observe and another to observe was not what is expected. We had specific questions that we didn't get answers to. We had very well raised questions, which the Minister willingly prepared what was prepared for him. So this was a hearing whose it was and how are they managed the 16th and 17th floor of what, Mr. Minister? A building that isn't NDK's! A building which was administrative to the NDK, on which a free right of construction was established. This, honourable Members, is an important issue because it concerns all the parliamentary groups. Because the Law on Political Parties is clear. If we're going to make a change in the way political life is funded...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u154	Mr. Zhelyazkov, it's basically your question, not procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u155	In essence, it is the subject of the way in which we conduct, because we have not received any answers to the specific questions. And we have unquestioned questions about political speaking. GERB Party has a regularly established right to construction on the 16th and 17th floors. You don't have any butchery on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u156	It's not procedure, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u157	The district governor and the Council of Ministers, Mr. Minister, are the only ones who have cashiership.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u158	Will there be a question on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No question. There is no question from the BSP for Bulgaria. There is no question of such a people. From the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria there is no question. Is there a second question on behalf of the parliamentary group of a party? I won't. That's the end of the second round of questions. Please move on to the expression of respect for the answers given by Minister Minekov. We're continuing the Change, Mr. Gurov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have heard a lot of things today in this House. We have heard questions, answers, personal attacks, comments that were not directly related to the topic of discussion. What we've always stated in "We're continuing the Change" is that for us one thing is most important, namely: the rules to apply to everyone. Here the dispute for us is a commercial.. there are relations for rent, we heard that there are outstanding obligations of nearly a quarter of a million leva in a situation where Bulgarian citizens think... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u160	In a moment, you'll be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u161	...how they'll last the winter. We're talking about things that aren't on the agenda. It's not about freedom of speech. And when, Mrs. Atanasova, you are talking about bringing parliamentaryism back from where to bring it back, why is it there and why Bulgaria is 112th place in freedom of speech? For us, however, the issue here is quite principled. There are some obligations that have not been cleared, and in this sense the question is clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u162	What exactly is clear?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u163	As far as we understand, the media is not a tenant of the property, so this dispute must be settled in a way to protect the interest of the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian state so that such state property is not used for the benefit of certain parties and interests. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u164	Thank you, Mr. Gurov. Mr. Bikov, come in for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's hard to call a hearing what happened here. We were expecting concrete answers. The idea is not to defend some tenant, some newspaper, even some media, but rather to focus on a public scandal that has happened in recent days. This scandal might not have happened. There were at least five other ways for the Ministry to collect the money and, if you will, Trud would move out of this building. It was a matter of good desire from the Minister, only that this whole scandal was deliberately made by Mr. Minekov. He was intentional. All the chronology, which, of course, we couldn't meet here because we didn't hear a single answer from the minister, showed that it could be done anyway. And I appeal to the future government, or rather the ruling majority, but also to the future government: you yourself have no benefit from this scandal, no benefit at all! We have no use for this scandal either. In this hearing, we saw that the Minister was unprepared, extremely unprepared, unprepared, sorry about the qualifications and could not understand at all what they asked him. We did not hear an answer to the question what is this Svetoslav Traykov doing at the Ministry of Culture? How did they pick him? Is it on any list, on any revolutionary merit, about the resistance there, what is its competence in the field of culture, such as the function of the Ministry of Culture?! [[Laughter and applause from GERB-SDS]] Okay, you have to collect the duties, of course you have to collect. The way this is happening now, do you know what it means? This will be a challenge to you, which tomorrow you will make a government, you will have a Minister of Culture - whether Mr. Minekov or someone else. Now it has to be the same, because everyone has to be equal and in the same way is approached, it has to be dealt with in the same way to all debtors of the Ministry of Culture with the police, with the refusal to give them invoices when they want to repay their debts and with eviction. Of course, we did not call Mr. Minekov to talk about our headquarters, but unfortunately, this became an accent in his speeches because he did not answer the questions. From 2009 to 2019 we pay 5500 leva rent. In 2019 the Law on Political Parties has changed and we have no obligations at this time under the Law on Political Parties because we have reduced the subsidy and we are entitled to use our headquarters free of charge like all other parties. A month and a half ago, the district governor of Sofia, appointed by the caretaker government, tried to expel BSP from their headquarters because they had obligations. Are you going to approach the BSP in the way you have approached the newspaper? Will you go with the police there? We're against that, absolutely! BSP's place is where it is, they're entitled to it. They may have some financial problems and so on, but whatever the situation and any party we are talking about should be dealt with with with understanding because these people here and each of the parties is a party thanks to the vote of the Bulgarian citizens. I advise you: do not insert this approach that we have seen in the last days when you make a government. Try to solve the problems, not create them, because we are currently seeing the creation of the problem, not the solution! And that's just a symptom. It's not a big drama, yeah, they're gonna move their editing somewhere else, they're gonna pay off their debts in some way. However, if this becomes a philosophy of future governance, then you yourself will have huge problems, they will be yours, and they will not be ours. As opposition we will ask questions, but you will have to solve problems and if you are creating problems for yourself, which you can't solve and which you can't then answer, because this is what we have seen here, and it has been known for two days that we will want this hearing. We heard an opening speech that was written two days ago, talking about an extraordinary meeting because it was mechanically read, and that was the only concrete thing we heard. We've heard questions from the minister. Mr. Minister, you have come here to answer questions, not to ask them. I wish you good luck and, God forbid, have fewer ministers to give you trouble! We know that from experience. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is in the manner of conduct and of course you cannot know the lies that will be told by the GERB party, but I am obliged to refute them. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Bikov, I understand that on the back of the newspaper you are trying to solve some problem that you probably have or do not have with your building... [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u168	Mr. Svilensky is in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bikov said that BSP has obligations to the state for the used properties of the party clubs. I would like to declare from this tribune that BSP does not have a single lev commitment to the use of the building of "Positano" No 20 for the same reason that you claim that you do not owe rents to the state, as the building is given under the Law on Political Parties and is given free of charge, and there is no way that BSP can owe money, to owe any rents. This was the procedure to make it clear to all Bulgarian citizens that BSP does not owe and has no obligations to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u170	I want a personal explanation because my name was mentioned. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u171	Please be quiet in the hall! You're not given the floor, Mr. Bikov, please! Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for attitude within five minutes. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in today's debate on the hearing of the Minister of Culture, we were hoping that he would answer a few questions. It didn't happen, of course, and on this occasion is our attitude. The first attempt was to divert attention from the real subject. When you chase a media editor out of her office, do you jeopardize the release of this media, even if you do so legally? Of course you're threatening her. Of course, the next day they can't release the media because they have nowhere to work. Does this have to do with freedom of speech? Of course there is. Should we be careful of the media, much more careful when defending state property and its governance? It's all rhetorical questions. The National Assembly has always been exactly like this when it comes to the media as something very sensitive to society, as something for which our European partners from the civilized world have a special attitude, and so it should be. When we stopped the National Radio broadcast in two hours, we set up a targeted Search Commission. I was a member of this committee, which is why I have the right to speak. We came up with a decision and the director lost his job, and others lost their posts, and so I had to. It is not true that the National Assembly has been indifferent to every attempt and every hint in any way to hinder the activity of a media or, by no means, the freedom of speech of the individual journalists working in this media. It is 100% certain that there was a way to resolve this problem without this brutality and display of a demonstration of power, all the more so that it is a media that has a sharp and critical attitude towards the president who has appointed the two working governments, and this somehow does not relate to the requests you give and to which we sincerely trust, at least until proven otherwise. The first case is today. I'm very well-intentioned, very honestly trying to explain it to you, I hope you understand. It was not necessary for this circus, it was not necessary for the debate to go on this course, but could simply and clearly clarify the truth, could have simply and clearly been left the editing until it was pronounced, could not have been asked in advance, could have been many things could have happened. Secondly, is today's debate about freedom of speech so much about the subject? He has a direct relationship. I'm not going to ask it, or should I ask it, would it be the same attitude of executive power to other media? For example, I can't imagine what would have happened if this effort was directed to some of the media media of the media monopoly and oligarch Ivo Prokopiev. Do you know, Mr. Petkov, that the Union of Publishers of Prokopiev uses a state building from the Ministry of Economy? Do you know what rent is there because it's about rents? You should know. I didn't see them chasing them, and they probably pay their low rents regularly. That is not the subject, but we will always place it because of the double archin, because you raised the bar very high with words of morality, integrity, respect for the Constitution, laws and so on. If you've picked it up, we're ready to jump on this bar. Jump, too, because you picked her up. You didn't jump on that bar today. I've already talked about the behavior of the minister of the service today in this room. It cannot behave in such a way as to be held by any minister, whether employed or elected to the National Assembly. Not because it will offend me or any of the other colleagues, but because it is the supreme institution of democratic Bulgaria. And here, even if you're angry with the MPs... [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u173	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u174	...you have to behave yourself. I'll save time. Thank you. Today's debate was not in the request you made. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Bojankov, please come in from BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! As a result of today's debate we are impressed by the ease with which GERB talk about freedom of speech. They've been talking about repression for a few days, including in this room. We are not surprised that they are exploiting a private legal dispute to stick labels, talk about repression and attack a government that returns normality. [[(Laughter from GERB-SDS: "Normality"?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] It's normal for them because they're used to working in another environment. The environment in which Borisov and GERB decide who to collect rent, who not to collect rent, who to receive and who not to receive. Thus, they provided their media comfort and ensured that their political opponents and critics would be discredited and overshadowed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u177	Please let the attitude be the answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u178	The attitude is right on the answers of all those who have taken part in the debate, Mr. Chairman. We cannot talk about repression because every Bulgarian family and small company, when it does not pay its duties, receives a private judicial contractor, receives the rule of law. The law applies to all and we are all equal before the law. With GERB some were more equal than others and this ended. GERB sees it as repression, we see it as a normal process in the rule of law. But here's what repression is. We need to remind them when they talk about freedom of speech, restriction of freedom and repression, what this really is - 65 sentences in the European Court of Human Rights for the last 10 years, which are directly proportional to 112th place on freedom of speech in Bulgaria. Record in this respect put GERB in 2011 during the second year of their management, when many were literally repressed business, doctors, politicians... Repression is a violation of freedom and when from this tribune acting minister from GERB declared you guilty and a criminal, when a specially created organ puts you in the rain and under the sun to photograph you to be afraid, for an edification, for fear. There's a repression when business is smashed. One brother is in custody, and the other brother is not in custody to redeem himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u179	Please respond to the attitude!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u180	Does that sound familiar, colleagues? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's exactly the attitude, Mr. Chairman. When without trial and judgment many condemned the state, but we paid all of our taxes. For repression and violation of freedom you can ask the doctors from Gorna Oryahovitsa. When you're arrested at one entrance to the hospital and chained up, but they take you out the other entrance so everyone can see you. It's a repression and a restriction of freedom. When you're arrested in front of your own family and in front of your own children on a family holiday and they ruin your career, and they discredit you, and the expertise that exonerates you is delayed to pass the election. This is repression and restriction of freedom of speech. Our group raised this topic and every subject related to freedom of speech in 2019 in this House, including we asked for no-confidence votes. None of these topics have been missed, but for those who are outraged by the repression and restriction of freedom I will read some words, colleagues from GERB, honourable importers, and you tell me who they are: It is interesting where this should be blown in certain media that have received gifts and money, as a result of which blows up who has smashed the corresponding face of whom. The truth about this debate, Minister, is that a normalization is beginning, but we must watch over the law and rule of law and not allow ourselves to become what we are fighting against, and we must therefore be extremely careful. Borisov apparently moved his past from force groups to state institutions and turned them into bats. We have to change that. But just from GERB, from this tribune, this is cynicism. Because they're not bachelors, they're not docs. GERB are academics in suppressing freedom of speech and repression. Therefore, they of this particular tribune of this particular debate must be humbled. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u181	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. There is such a people here, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From GERB's group several times said that this was a debate on freedom of speech. Freedom of speech was brutally killed and raped by the appearance of GERB in power. And I know it because, as you know, I worked in private media. The National Television "BNT," bTV and Nova were turned into bologna of the ruling by GERB. The papers were destroyed. The media was bought and crushed. The few journalists they thought were fired. Yeah, we were in bTV and up to one period things were free, until when when you showed up, they started putting us in two centors each to watch the show and say what to do and what not. So if the debate is about freedom of speech, there's a lot to do in this direction, a lot to do. The SEM is an organ that is a censor and crushes freedom of speech. And this composition of the CEM, and this function you made it so. So it's nice to keep quiet sometimes, because you look not just stupid, but terrifying.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u183	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u184	Mr. Chairman, first of all, congratulations to you! For the first time I am coming out of the stands of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly and I wish you the decisions you make from the position of the first among the equal, to be always on the side of law and parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. And secondly, not to empathize, to turn myself in the way of holding........ in this procedure. Firstly, because the entire procedure, which was raised as a debate, was not followed. Perhaps this is partly due to your guilt. Firstly, the minister, who was called to answer questions from MPs, answered almost none of them. Unfortunately, you didn't interrupt him at all. Perhaps from the point of view that you are leading for the first day, perhaps from some enormous respect you have for this minister, in which there is nothing wrong. However, the other thing I would like to say is to all parliamentary groups. Colleagues, seven months now, the change you have announced is underway, fact and so on. Some might like it, some might not like it that much. But coming out here and abusing the procedure is the least funny thing I can do to some of the pre-talkers. Because when they are from this tribune, you must express your opinion, apart from yours and that of your people who have sent you to the National Assembly to represent them as well. And to Mr. President, I finally address: With the greatest respect for the institution that you represent, and in a personal capacity, once again I wish you to deal, to interrupt even members of the Council of Ministers, who have unfortunately forgotten that they have been ministers for six or seven months, and they are still living as one type of Protestant. We all remember what performances they were doing, and God does not forget what performances they did sometime, but let's just say that today, in the closing words of this procedure, I have not heard anything on the subject and essentially. You were all addressing a parliamentary group where there's nothing wrong... [[(Reply from?) We continue the Change?]] I'll keep the time. Thank you, colleagues. But to wish you, colleagues, and you, Mr. Chairman, to observe parliamentaryism and procedures as they are in the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u185	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Panev, about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u186	Dear colleagues! The case with the newspaper "Trud" is, naturally, in my opinion, a private case, but we need to comment a little bit on the elephant in the room, which is the media freedom and 112th place of Bulgaria in the ranking of it. The problems for me, at least as a former journalist, began somewhere around 2008 with the then global economic crisis. You know, the flow of advertisers fell significantly towards private media and they never recovered from private advertisers because this period also coincided with the period of entering social networks around the world, which ate quite a lot of the advertising flows that were then directed to private media. Conversely, after Bulgaria's entry into the European Union, the flows of EU funds have increased and, accordingly, the media service of the European projects. From there the state gained extremely great power over the media market simply because it became the main advertiser of it. Governments from this period since 2008, 2009 have not been allowed to use this lever they have, for full control or almost complete control of the media sector in Bulgaria. That's the past, though. The most important thing is what we do from now on. The most important thing is from now on the next government, the next executive, to refrain from such a way of controlling the media market, that is, not exercising the influence that there is in principle because the financial flows pass and will go to the media mainly through the state and therefore influence the editorial policy of the media. If we achieve this, it will be a huge success for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Unique applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u187	Thank you, Mr. Panev. On behalf of the parliamentary group of party rebirth Mr. Kostadinov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u188	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It is obvious that this is about a legal dispute that is yet to be settled in court. Nevertheless, we at the AGE welcome this discussion, this hearing, because it has given the opportunity once again to talk about freedom of speech. I don't think there are two sides to this. In Bulgaria, freedom of speech is quite questionable and questionable. However, I would like to remind you of something else that will have to strengthen the feeling of a really very unpleasant double standard when people who have recently violated the freedom of speech and have become a symbol of this violation, are now becoming rudiments in its defence. Last year, a political party from many in Bulgaria was raised by the DANS, the Prosecution and the police. Hundreds of members and founders of this organization have been questioned from the assumption and from the point of view that they are lawbreakers. During nearly one year an unprecedented repressive operation was launched against a political organization in Bulgaria, which last took place in the period 1946 - 1947, when with a decision of the Bulgarian Communist Party and then sanctioned by the National Assembly it was decided to ban the Bulgarian National Assembly. And Nikola Petkov himself was arrested, by the way, I don't know if you know he was arrested here in this room. He speaks, takes his word and is arrested and taken away...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u189	On the subject, Mr. Kostadinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u190	What I want to say is that it should not and should not be forgotten that freedom of speech is only one of the two fundamental foundations of Bulgarian democracy, and the other is freedom of choice and the right to choice. It's been broken many times. Last year there was such a case, there were many other similar ones that were mentioned by the Minister, by the way, with regard to the protesters then people. Only then there wasn't a hearing here. None of the political forces in parliament raised this question or one of these questions even, or even one private case. This shows a double standard. The Bulgarian Parliament must forget this practice because it is harmful. In conclusion, since many times the media has been commented, but no one has addressed it directly, I as a victim of the repression last year can say the following: in the end there is a Bulgarian court. We went to court with faith in both the law and the law and the justice system. We won our case, we proved that there was political repression against us, and in the end, we are here now. If this media considers and believes it is in its right, I believe and believe that the court will respect its fair request in order to protect its rights. It is the right thing to do, and so must it be in a legal and legal state. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. This concludes on item 1 of the agenda for today's session of Professor Minekov. Thank you for your participation. Come in as per procedure, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking procedure the way it is. In relation to a question you did not raise, which I asked to the Minister of Economy Mrs. Daniela Vezeva, on the basis of art. 91 of our regulations. I dispute, Mr President, this order of yours, because I believe it does not correspond to objective truth. To be more clear with both you and the House, I will say that I have asked a question to the Minister of Economy Daniela Vezeva and wish to provide me as exercising the rights in the capital of BBI EAD copies of all the protocols with which the Minister of Economy has pronounced as sole owner of capital in BBR EAD.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u193	Mrs. Atanasova, object and we will consider it at the Chairman's Council. This is not the way the sitting is conducted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u194	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u195	At the meeting?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u196	In the form of parliamentary control, any Member of the National Assembly may ask the Minister. The fact that you're diverting and not allowing this question, and on a strange basis...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u197	Let him go, we'll see him at the chairman's council.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u198	...which you referred to is this...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u199	Thank you very much. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Please, Mrs. Atanasova, object and we will consider it at the Chairman's Council. I told you, it's not in the way of the sitting. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u200	Please! It is in the manner of holding the meeting because I believe that this is an issue of an up-to-date nature and constitutes a public interest, and that this issue concerns the companies led by the Minister of Economy. The topic at the moment is one of the topics on the agenda of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u201	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u202	In this sense, I will do whatever is necessary to challenge your order.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u203	Argu with him. We'll look into it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u204	This is a style that I think you should not imitate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u205	Thank you, too. You're welcome, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u206	And I promise it'll be the last one. Mr. Chairman, again well-meaning in the manner of conduct. I would like to remind the House, as there are many new colleagues, in one of the previous assembly the President of the Parliament took the floor away from the head of the largest opposition parliamentary group, Mrs Cornelia Ninova. His name is Dimitar Glauchev. That's why the National Assembly released him. More specifically, he resigned when he knew he was going to be released. [[Reply from "We continue the Change": "We are all equal. "]] Don't do this. The chairman of the largest opposition parliamentary group does not take the floor away from her because there is already a precedent. At the very least, this is considered not a good taste. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u207	Thank you for your speech. By procedure, Mr. Petkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u208	Dear Members of the Parliament, in the manner of holding. Please follow the Rules of Procedure and do not include any new points. I also ask you to follow the rules absolutely correctly from now on when the time is up. This time has to be saved for all of us. We are 240 people. There are so many important problems to solve in the country. We don't want to deal with...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u209	Mr. Petkov, in the manner of conduct, it must be against me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u210	It's the way it's supposed to be. From now on, we must observe the exact time, observe our Rules and the points on which we have agreed to speak, and speak on them. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u211	Thank you. We continue on item two of the agenda for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR PROJECTING RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers: Lena Borislavova, Kaloyan Ikonomov, Galina Georgieva, Blagovest Belev, Marin Shishev and Radoslav Vassilev. The draft decision of the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group is deposited. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you are, Mrs. Borislavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of a draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and for amendments to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 73, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in a composition of 14 Members of Parliament elected on a Parisian principle.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. The Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly become the Draft Rules for the Organization and Activity of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly. The time limit for written proposals by the Members of the National Assembly for amendment and/or supplement to the Project shall be until 14 December 2021 inclusive. The Commission shall examine and discuss the proposals, draw up and submit the report concerned. 3. Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Commission. 4. The Commission shall be elected for a period until the final adoption of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Borislavova. I am opening the discussion on the proposed project. I'm closing the discussion. Please proceed to the vote on the proposed draft decision. Vote 215 MPs: for 215, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the nominations for leadership and composition of the Temporary Commission. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group we continue the Change? Mr. Gurov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of "We are continuing the Change" we nominate Lena Zdravkova Borislavova and Rena Encheva Stefanova as members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u215	Mr. Gurov, for regular members, not for chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u216	We propose Lena Zdravkova Borislavova as President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u218	Thank you. As members of the Rules Committee, we propose Anna Alexandrova and Hristo Gazhev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u219	Thank you. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Jordan Tsonev and Mr. Hamid Hamid Hamid are proposed on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me a detour?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u222	With the water and the coffees not in the hall. Please send them to the cafeteria. It's not admissible. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u223	Thank you. On behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u224	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria.We propose Philip Popov and Ivan Ivanov as members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u225	Thank you. On behalf of the "There is such a people"? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group there is such a people for members of the Temporary Commission we propose Mrs. Iva Miteva and Mr. Andrey Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u227	Thank you. On behalf of the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria? Here you go, Mrs. Stratieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for members of the Temporary Commission from "Democratic Bulgaria" we propose Mr. Ivan Dimitrov and Mr. Atanas Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u229	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party ARRANGEMENT? Here you go, Mr. Ruschev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Political Party, we offer lawyer Elena Guncheva and lawyer Petar Petrov as members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u231	Thank you. Nominating discussion? I won't. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. Vote 222 MPs: for 222, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted in the composition proposed by the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u232	The President shall be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-08.u233	Mr. Tsonev, the nomination was also for the chairman. We voted them in full. [[Heckling]] The draft of the decision itself included presidents and regular members, which is how we had done it. Thank you. Message: I inform the Members of the National Assembly that the incoming notifications under the Law on passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces and the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will be provided with information on their service e-mails. On 3 December 2021, a letter was received from Kostadin Kostadinov. 70, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria consents pending criminal proceedings in a judicial phase against it to continue. In relation to the criminal proceedings referred to in the letter, there was no request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria for permission to continue criminal proceedings against the Member of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the letter received by the National Assembly and a certified copy of the notification was attached. Honourable Members, with this the agenda for today's sitting is exhausted. The next meeting will take place tomorrow, 9 December 2021, as of 11.00, according to the decision adopted earlier today. The agenda shall be as follows: 1. Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules for Remote Participation in the National Assembly meetings of Members of the National Assembly, placed under mandatory isolation or quarantine due to COVID-19. 2. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
