ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I propose to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for January 20, 2021: "1." Projects of decisions to complete the compositions of Standing Committees. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" on 13 January 2021 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020 3. Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission on the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) AD of 28 265 200 shares of the capital of the First Investment Bank and draft decision on the report. Importer of the requested Commission on 30 October 2020 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. 5. Second vote on the Bulgarian sign language bill. The Council of Ministers received the first vote on 12 November 2020. Point 1 for Thursday 21 January 2021 6. First vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Importers suppose Julian Angelov and a group of MPs on 18 December 2020. Point 2 for Thursday 21 January 2021 7. A bill ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country, and the Additional Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, Iceland, of the other part, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the third country, implementing the Air Transport Agreement between the United States of America, of the one part, the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, Iceland, of the third country, and the Kingdom of Norway, of the fourth country signed on 17 July 2021 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2020 Point 3 for Thursday 21 January 2021 8. First vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. Importers "Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 15 January 2021 Point 1 for Friday 22 January 2021 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers supplied by Anna Alexandrova and Krasimir Tsipov on 15 January 2021. Point 2 for Friday 22 January 2021 10. Parliamentary control after the legislative part of the meeting was concluded on Friday 22 January 2021. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 120, against 5, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 13 to 19 January 2021: Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Importer "Iskren Veselinov." Draft decision to complete the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Importer "Iskren Veselinov." Draft law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. Importer Plamen Nunev. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Draft amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. A bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and for overcoming the consequences. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importer "Anna Alexandrova" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2020 and Draft Decision. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, please be quiet! Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ratification of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Additional Protocol thereto, the Convention on the Transfer of Condemned Persons and the European Convention on Extradition with the two Additional Protocols thereto. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Recognition of Professional Qualifications. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its air force crew of Ukraine. The authorisation shall be valid for the period from 23 to 26 January 2021 for one flight for the purpose of returning to Ukraine without cargo. The order issued is within the competence of the Minister of Defence, concerning the assessment of the military parameters of the transition with a view to the defence of the country on export control issues and in accordance with the international sanctions regimes mandatory for the Republic of Bulgaria. The permit to fly into the country's airspace should be granted to the State concerned following a positive opinion from the competent state authorities in these areas................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The notification was received on 15 January 2021 with entry No 103-09-3 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on indexes of turnover in the section "Retails', excluding trade in cars and motorcycles, in November 2020, indexes of industrial production in November 2020, indexes of construction production in November 2020, inflation and indexes of consumer prices for December 2020. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF RESPONSIBILITY DECISIONS. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Alexandrov to be a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Importer "Iskren Veselinov." Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 129, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Alexandrov as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer "Iskren Veselinov." Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020 With the Internal Security and Public Order Committee's report, Mr. Nunev will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. At its regular meeting on 13 January 2021, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. The meeting was attended by: Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Rositsa Petkova, Head of Department at the Department of Finance and Finance at the Ministry of Finance; Georgi Popivanov, Director of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence at the National Security Agency, Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Head of Department at the Department of Finance Intelligence at the National Security Agency; Chief Commissioner Lyubomir Yanev, Director of the Directorate General for Organized Crime and Chief Inspector Yavor Serafimov. The bill and its motives were presented by Deputy Minister Marinela Petrova. The full new Law on measures against money laundering in the Bulgarian legislation introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, International Standards for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism (FATF recommendations), the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Searching, seizure and confiscation of proceeds from crime and terrorist financing, signed in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, as well as Resolutions of the United Nations Security Council on the Prevention of Terrorism and its Financing. The new Law on Measures against Money Laundering retains the range of categories of debtors set out in the repealed Law on Measures against Money Laundering. This approach is adopted as the list of categories of debtors referred to in art. 2 (1) of Directive (EU) 2015/849 is not exhaustive and art. 4 of the Directive requires Member States to ensure that all or part of the professions and categories of undertakings other than the obliged entities under art. 2 (1) which are engaged in activities for which it is particularly likely to be used for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. The order of Art. 4 of the Directive should be applied in accordance with the approach based on the risk assessment, and at the time of the adoption of the new Law on Measures against Money Laundering by the National Assembly, the National Assessment of the Risk of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism was not completed, which would comply with the requirements of art. 7 of the Directive and to justify a change in the categories of debtors. In order to achieve compliance with the scope of the Bulgarian preventive legislation against money laundering and terrorist financing, with the conclusions in the National Risk Assessment Report 2019 and with the requirements of art. 4 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 in respect of categories of persons through which money laundering or terrorist financing is particularly likely to take place within the working group under art. 96 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering are examined categories of debtors under Art. 96 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. On the basis of this review, the working group shall decide that it is appropriate to propose the removal of this part of the debtors under the Law on measures against money laundering which are not among the compulsory categories referred to in art. 2 (1) of the Directive and in respect of which the National Risk Assessment Report does not identify risks that justify the need to be obliged to apply measures to prevent the use of the financial system. At the same time, the effective exercise of control to comply with the requirements of preventive legislation against money laundering and terrorist financing is currently difficult due to the large number of categories of debtors under art. 4 of the Law, which carry out extremely diverse activities of their kind subject to different types of regulation, and because of the large number of obliged entities that fall within these categories. This prevents focusing on areas with a higher risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, resulting in a significant administrative resource being spent in the control process based on the risk assessment. Categories of obliged entities falling within the scope of art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, which by this draft law is proposed to drop out, can be divided into three groups. The first group includes persons who are not related to identified risk events in the National Risk Assessment Report, such as professional unions, word organisations, legal entities to which mutual funds, central securities depositories, market operators and/or regulated markets are available and re-insurers. The second group includes persons to whom other mechanisms have been introduced in the legislation for providing information under the terms and conditions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, such as the authorities of the National Revenue Agency and customs authorities, which can apply art. 88 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and Art. 9, para. 6 of the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. The third group shall include persons whose activity is related to identified risk events in the National Risk Assessment Report, but to the type and nature of the threat and the mechanism for the use of vulnerability for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes should not be countered by their obligation to implement the measures under art. 3 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and in another appropriate and more effective way to take account of the increased level of risk when implementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. This group includes wholesalers, privatisation authorities, public procurement, ministers and mayors of municipalities at the time of concession contracts. The draft Law introduces national legislation and amendments to Directive (EU) 2015/849 made by Directive (EU) 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019. The proposed draft also provides for amendments to existing texts of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, which aim to specify and clarify issues arising from the adoption of the Law until now, as well as to provide for explicit legal possibilities for the conclusion of written cooperation agreements and the exchange of information for the purposes of Directive (EU) 2015/849 between competent supervisory authorities in the Member States. There are also amendments to the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism and to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, which are imposed in connection with the removal of certain categories of entities under art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The proposed changes will lead to a reduction in the administrative burden for categories of persons who will fall from the range of debtors as well as to an increase in the effectiveness of control over the application of preventive legislation against money laundering and terrorist financing. The proposed bill will not lead to an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of the subsequent discussion by the State Agency of National Security and the Directorate General for Organized Crime, the Commission expressed full support for the bill under consideration. On the basis of the discussion and the vote on the following results, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first day of the vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on measures against money laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. There is a statement made outside the agenda discussed by the parliamentary group. Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u4	Declaration by the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 19 January it was 150 years since the birth of the great Bulgarian revolutionary, Head of the Internal Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization, wrestler for the liberation of Macedonia and Adrianople and the unification of Bulgaria, Dame Gruev. [[Noise.]] Damian Gruev was born in the Bitola village of Smilevo in 1871. He studied in his native village, Resen and Bitola, passed through the Thessaloniki Men's High School and the Great School in Belgrade. In the Serbian capital, it faces aggressive propaganda and attempts to Serbize the population in Vardar Macedonia. He went to Sofia where he enrolled a major in the new university. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u5	Please be quiet! Respect for Dame Gruev's memory!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u6	Here, along with many other young people from the Macedonian region, he got close acquainted with the ideas of Levski, Botev and Benkovski, who read He dedicated himself to the great idea, Dame Gruev went to Macedonia and began preparing for a revolutionary organization, circling as an Exarchian teacher different settlements. On October 23, 1893 in Thessaloniki was launched the organization called the Bulgarian Macedonian-Odrin revolutionaries, or better known as the Internal Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization. The goal is the autonomy of Macedonia and Adrianople in their natural borders, in the words of the founders, as a stage of their future accession to Bulgaria, the instrument of armed struggle. The Central Committee is headed by Dr. Hristo Tatarchev and Damian Gruev is elected secretary. In the coming years, Gruev worked tirelessly to find new supporters and activists, resulting in the first local organizations and the first regional committees. Weapon transfer channels have been created from Bulgaria. As a teacher in Stip Dame attracts the future Apostle Gotse Delchev into the ranks of the organization. In 1900, Dame Gruev was arrested and subsequently exiled to Podrumkale, which prevented him from affecting the hasty decision to declare an uprising in Macedonia and Adrianople in 1903. Released from prison, Dame Gruev joined the feverish preparation of the upcoming uprising. He presided over the Smilen Congress held at his home, where he was elected to the Chief Staff of the District of Bitola together with Boris Sarafov and Anastas Lozanchev. The uprising in Bitolsko broke out on Ilinden 1903. Gruev actively participated in the rebellion and managed to see his birthplace released, albeit briefly. Dame remains in Macedonia to share the fate of thousands of victims and continues to encourage the local population after the uprising. Along with the fight against Turkish authorities, he organised the population to protect against ever-growing Serbian propaganda during those years. In time, after the Ilinden-Preobrajian uprising Dame Gruev remains the last great figure to embody the unity of the organization, under the pressure of increasing trends for federalization and chiefism. Gruev presided over the Rila Congress in 1905, at which unity was preserved, and the Supreme Macedonian-Odrin Committee declared its dissolution and infusion at IMRO. On December 23, 1906, Dame, together with his reading, faced Turkish soldiers in the village of Rusinovo, Maleshevsko. In the subsequent shooting, he was injured, but managed to escape and reach Mount Petlec, where he found his death. Professor Miletic said to him: "All Bulgarianism then felt its stroke, then it was seen how modest Gruev was generally revered and appreciated as a true apostle of freedom...... and Jordan Badev called him a doppelganger of Levski on Macedonian soil. The whole philosophy of Dame Gruev for the revolutionary struggle quotes in his memories the Voivod Milan Matov: We are Bulgarians and we will always work and work for the unification of Bulgaria, and all other formulas are a stage for achieving this goal. Bow to the memory and work of the great revolutionary Dame Gruev! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u7	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. The Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications follows. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u8	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. At a meeting held on 14 January 2021, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and the access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Financial Market Regulatory Directorate and Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, Head of the Department of the Financial Markets Regulatory Directorate. Ms. Tsvetanka Mihailova presented the Draft and the reasons for its introduction in the part concerning the amendments and additions related to the activities carried out by the financial intelligence unit of the State Agency of National Security, which has functions in preventing and countering money laundering and terrorist financing. The Bill proposes that the information on the issuance and disposal of non-available financial instruments be provided by criteria defined jointly by the President of the Financial Supervision Commission and by the Chairman of the State Agency. A mechanism for the immediate provision of information by the authorities of the National Revenue Agency and the customs authorities of the State Agency is introduced and in carrying out their duties establish facts and circumstances that may be related to money laundering. An analog mechanism is also provided for in the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. In support of the bill was issued an opinion by the State Agency of National Security. After the discussion, the Commission with 3 votes for the Council, without a vote against the Council of Ministers, asked the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002 01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u9	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Stoynev, if you like the mask! Thank you. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 002 01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2020. They voted 144 MPs: 93 against 9, abstention 42. The bill has been passed. Please come in for a procedure. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to propose a procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions by No 002-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u11	How much did you say?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u12	Six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u13	Six days. Thank you. Do you have another procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u14	Yeah, another procedure. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please extend by six days the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries by No 002-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u15	Thank you. Are there any counterproposals? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Ivanov's first procedural proposal for a six-day extension between the first and second voting of the Law on Credit Institutions. They voted 142 MPs: 119, none, abstention 23. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. I am now voting on Mr. Ivanov's second procedural proposal for a six-day extension between the first and second voting of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 002-01-58. They voted 136 MPs: 106, none, abstention 30. And that deadline has been extended by six days. We're moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE ACQUISITION BY THE BULGARIAN RECEIVED PROJECT OF THE REPORT DECISION. Importer is the Temporary Commission on 30 October 2020. Come in with the report, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the activities of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the Bulgarian Development Bank The temporary commission on the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) AD of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank was established by decision of the National Assembly adopted on 30 July 2020. (prom., D.V., No. 70 of 7 August 2020) It shall consist of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two from each Parliamentary Group. Chairman: Evgenia Angelova, Vice-President: Rumen Gechev Members: Kalin Dimitrov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Alexander Sabanov, Rosen Ivanov, Elena Angelinina, Krastina Taskova, Yordan Tsonev and Sergey Kichikov. The last four MPs were elected members by decision of the National Assembly adopted on 9 September 2020. (prom., D.V., No. 80 of 11 September 2020) The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of two months. Four meetings were held during her term of office: on 24 September, 1 [[distant sitting]] , 8 and 29 October 2020 Its task is to clarify and analyse the facts and all direct and indirect effects of the operation with significant public resources, namely: the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank. This statement will present the facts and circumstances of the acquisition of the shares and the role of the individual institutions. The issue of determining the emission value of a share will be dealt with in more detail and the relevant conclusions on the direct and indirect effects of this operation will finally be drawn. At its first meeting, the Temporary Commission adopted internal rules for its organisation and activities and specified the circle of institutions and persons to be invited to be heard, namely: the Bulgarian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Financial Supervision Commission, the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of the Bulgarian Development Bank. On a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov was requested written information from the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. In his presentation to the MPs at a meeting of the Temporary Commission on 8 October 2020, the governor of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Dimitar Radev pointed out that the topic under discussion should be addressed in the context of the great goal of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Monetary andcursory Mechanism 2 (ERM2) and the Banking Union of the European Union by establishing close cooperation between the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). It is in the context of this task on the basis of art. 4 of Decision of the European Central Bank of 31 January 2014 on close cooperation with the national competent authorities of the participating Member States whose currency is not the euro (ECB/2014/5), in 2019 the European Central Bank shall review the quality of assets and stress test of six Bulgarian banks, including the first investment bank. The asset quality review (AQR) and the stress test are the implementation of a theoretical and conservative (pudential) model to assess the risk of the bank's assets rather than an accounting operation under International Financial Reporting Standards. The asset quality review shall provide the European Central Bank with an assessment of the balance sheet values of the assets of the banks at a specific date (in this case 31 December 2018) . It is used to determine the need to strengthen the bank's capital base. The quality review of the assets for the Bulgarian banks was carried out on the basis of an updated methodology of the European Central Bank (as applied for the first time by the ECB) which takes into account the impact of IFRS 9. The stress test examines how the capital positions of banks would change in a hypothetical underlying and aggravated scenario over the next three years (2019 The results of the review and tests confirm that the Bulgarian banking system is stable by agreeing two of the six banks to prepare capital plans. One of them is the first investment bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u17	Mrs. Angelova, it's basically up to this point. You're now entering the essential part. Are you going to read the entire report 20 pages? All of it? Because you can also provide a summary?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u18	Okay, if I have to present a summary. If I have to, I'll present a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u19	I think a better summary, if you can present.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u20	Okay, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u21	Because the report is available to the MPs. [[Reply.]] What? Didn't I hear? Do you have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u22	Read the report, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u23	You want to read the report. Okay, Mrs. Angelova, proceed punctually, do not miss any paragraph however.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u24	Well, in that case, Mr. Chairman, punctually on the main ones of the Report. To finish only on the subject that I was beginning to read. The results of the review and tests confirm that the Bulgarian banking system is stable by agreeing two of the six banks to prepare capital plans. As I said before, one of them is the first investment bank. By the end of April 2020, the Bank implemented 65% of its capital plan, but in order to fully complete the formation of additional capital buffers against possible adverse macroeconomic developments as required by the European Central Bank, it should increase its Common Equity Tier 1 capital (BIA 1) by 100 million. Euros. The assets of the First Investment Bank are worth more than 10 billion. lv. The regulatory capital of the First Investment Bank is showing constant historical growth over the years, reaching 656 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR 2019 By a Commission decision Ms. Maria Filipova was heard Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the management Board. In her exhibition she pointed out that at the end of 2019 a prospectus was submitted to the Financial Supervision Commission to increase the capital of the First Investment Bank. The amount of the issue subject to a primary public offering amounts to up to 200 million. BGN, with indicative emission value per share of BGN 5 and with a final unit issue value and a total number of the proposed shares to be determined by a subsequent decision of the Governing Council and approved by a decision of the Supervisory Board of the Bank respectively. The prospectus states that the final issue price will be determined as a result of the conduct of the marketing of the issue in line with the regulatory requirements and may differ from the indicative issue price disclosed in the decision of the Governing Council. The written information submitted by the Financial Supervision Commission to the Temporary Commission shall examine in detail the five factors on which the issue price will depend. These factors are ranked in importance, but taken as a whole, namely: - price levels of investor interest; - the market price of the shares; - the maximum effect of the increase in the issuer's capital; - the interests of the existing shareholders and the book value of the share. The draft is reviewed at a meeting of the Financial Supervision Commission and instructions are given several times to supplement the information. As the instructions given are not met by the applicant in full, a Commission decision on financial supervision has issued a refusal to confirm the prospectus. In April 2020, the Financial Supervision Commission was again submitted a prospectus to increase the capital of the First Investment Bank. It aims to raise a resource of 200 million. BGN, but by issuing 25 million No. shares with an issue value of BGN 8 The final issue price of 8 BGN, the final number of shares, the ratio between the number of rights and newly issued shares and the minimum number of shares where the supply will be considered successful are firmly defined and are not subject to change. The issue value of the capital increase shares is determined by a decision of the Governing Council and approved by the Supervisory Board. Ms. Filipova explained that after reviewing the prospectus submitted to the Commission for financial supervision to increase the capital of the first investment bank and its comparison with the prospectus submitted at the end of 2019 for the primary public offering of shares from an increase in the capital of the bank, there was a significant difference in terms of the approach in determining the issue value of the new shares. For this reason, the company is required to provide information on what factors the material difference in the approach in determining the issue value has imposed. As a result of the Commission's request for financial supervision, a new prospectus was submitted, which was reflected after its approval by the Financial Supervision Commission, a substantial new circumstance requiring amendments to the prospectus, namely the Decision of the Governing Council of the Bank, confirmed by the Supervisory Board, to change the initially determined issue value of BGN 8. One share of the Bank's capital increase to BGN 5,60 for one raid. Following a review of the prospectus by the Financial Supervision Commission, instructions for adjustments to the prospectus have been given again, they have been duly carried out. An adjusted prospectus has been submitted as a result of the request by the Financial Supervision Commission. The emission value of BGN 5 is designated by the Governing Council by a decision approved by the Supervisory Board. The written information provided by the Financial Supervision Commission indicates that the prospectus provides a detailed justification for the determined price per share, indicating that the issue price is determined following a complex analysis involving financial indicators and so on. In addition, the prospectus notes that the capital increase process starts in 2019 and lasts about half a year, and numerous meetings and talks with potential investors have been held with the major international institutional investors from Great Britain and other countries. It is said that in the last quarter of 2019 the bank improves its financial performance. It has been stated that balancing the factors described above is the cause of repeated changes in parameters. It is disclosed that the following key factors are taken into account in this prospectus for determining the issue price: - the market price of the shares; - transactions with majority packages of other banks on the local market in recent years; - market factors of analogue banks; - the carrying amount of a share. The final issue value is determined using the average of the two methods the market price of the shares and the price determined on the basis of the odds of analog banks. In order to attract a wider interest in the issue, the obtained price of 5,93 BGN. The share was further reduced by a discount of approximately 15% and an emission value of 5 BGN was obtained as a result. for action. Here the report examines in detail the formation of the price that can be seen in the report itself. The project has been confirmed by a Financial Supervision Commission Decision and has been published. In this context and within the framework of the activities under art. 4, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian Development Bank in connection with art. 2, para. 2, p. 14 of the Credit Institutions Act, the Bulgarian Development Bank (BIA) is interested in the acquisition of newly issued shares of the First Investment Bank. On 30 April 2020, the Bulgarian National Bank received an application from the Bulgarian Development Bank with a request for prior approval under art. 28, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. BGN representing the issue value of 40 million newly issued shares of the First Investment Bank, subject to the primary offering of securities. The issue is part of the capital plan of the First Investment Bank (SSC) to complete the capital shortfall identified as a result of the comprehensive assessment of the European Central Bank. This plan shall comply with the eligibility criteria of the European Central Bank and subject to ongoing monitoring of the implementation by the Supervisory Board. The Bulgarian National Bank is based on the application of the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) based on the fulfilment of the following regulatory requirements, which are listed in the Report. After obtaining approval from the Bulgarian National Bank under art. 28, para. 1 and 2 of the Credit Institutions Act "Bulgarian Development Bank" AD participates with its own resources in the open auction and acquires 77 729 300 pcs. straight. The acquired rights give the right to record 28 265 200 shares of the capital increase of the First Investment Bank. This number of shares corresponds to less than 19% of the statutory capital of the first investment bank. "Bulgarian Development Bank" AD participates in the open auction under publicly announced prices and conditions, equal to all other investors. The participation of private investors in the subscription of newly issued shares of the First Investment Bank (SSC) shows that the Bulgarian Development Bank (SSC) participates on market terms, at prices and at expected remuneration, which are acceptable to a private investor. On the basis of a joint analysis of the Ministry of Finance and a team of Directorate-General for the European Commission of the applicable European and national rules in the field of State aid, the Report concludes that the participation of the Bulgarian Development Bank (BIA) in the capital increase of the First Investment Bank (SSC) under publicly announced competitive prices and conditions of the regulated market, among other private investors, by recording up to 70% of the total volume of subscribed and paid shares, does not constitute State aid. The issue of the company's capital increase was registered in the Central Depository on 5 August 2020, as well as in the register of public companies and other issuers of securities held by the Financial Supervision Commission on 6 August 2020. During Ms Filipova's hearing by the Financial Supervision Commission, she explicitly stressed that the Financial Supervision Commission did not have information on ongoing negotiations with investors, and the applicable legislation did not require disclosure of such information during the examination of a prospectus for the public offering of securities. In addition, Mrs. Filipova stressed that the Financial Supervision Commission should ensure that the prospectus contains all the information that investors need for an accurate assessment of the issuer's economic and financial situation and the securities rights. In the course of the discussion the people representative Rumen Gechev expressed concerns that because the first investment bank (SSC) did not distribute dividends and the profit was recapitalised, therefore the state will not receive dividends for the shares it received, that is to say there is no guarantee for the State. In addition, according to him, since the market price of the shares market of the Bank of First Investment is BGN 2,25, then the State would have bought more shares, from which it follows that its share in the capital of the bank would be greater than 18,39% of the statutory capital of the bank after its increase. In response to the concerns expressed by the national representative Rumen Gechev, Deputy Minister Marinela Petrova pointed out that if this is true, which Mr. Gechev said, to benefit the private investor at a non-market price, then the state will fall into the hypothesis of State aid, as it will be considered to be acting under non-market conditions and automatically falls under the sanctions of State aid regulations. The European Commission's Directorate-General will be the first to attack the country under the deal. In this regard, she stressed that they wanted to work closely together and shared all available information with the DG's teams, where key experts asked much more serious questions than those during this hearing, including who the investor is, do they know how to verify, under what conditions the price is determined, why it differs from the price that is on a secondary market, the depth of the secondary market, the demand for the secondary market is addressed. All this was the subject of comments by discussing all the arguments for and against. As a result, by sticking to European legislation, the State decides with Brussels' confirmation that the deal is market if the State buys up to 70% of the shares of the capital increase. Mrs. Maria Filipova from the Financial Supervision Commission reiterated that redemption can be carried out and a separate procedure should be followed for this purpose before the Financial Supervision Commission. In his speech, National Representative Yordan Tsonev took the view that in this case it was a separate independent issue of entirely new shares, which should lead to an increase in the capital of the First Investment Bank. In this issue, the share price shall be determined by the issuer and approved by the Financial Supervision Commission. In this case, the price has been adjusted several times, taking into account different factors in their aggregate. In addition, it is clear from the hearing of the representatives of the individual institutions that the capital increase of the First Investment Bank is a deal carried out under all laws and market rules, which is approved by the competent Bulgarian institutions and agreed with the competent European institutions. In conclusion, the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank Mr. Dimitar Radev pointed out that the dispute over the balance sheet against the stock value and at what price the issue could have lasted for a long time. But it is undeniable that this is the transaction that has been examined the most, the longest, by all competent institutions..................... both domestic and external......................................................................... .. There were serious risks for everyone, including the issuer, if it went to a price that was significantly below the book value... there was a methodology, it was checked by all possible institutions... The categorical conclusion, which was confirmed, is that it is a market deal, that no State aid procedure will be initiated, and that is in the case of the participation of people with conservative thinking as to whether Bulgaria should go in this direction. Conclusions of the hearing and the comments submitted: 1. The acquisition of the shares in the First Investment Bank is a strategic investment related to the expansion of the operational potential of the Bulgarian Development Bank and not a speculative transaction in search of financial effect. 2. The increase in the capital of the First Investment Bank and in addition to the results of the complex assessment of the European Central Bank will lead to further strengthening of the financial capacity of the First Investment Bank and further improvement of its capital indicators. 3. This issue is an issue of entirely new shares to increase capital. This is not a transaction for existing shares, i.e. those traded on the secondary market. And at this issue each share has an emission value of 5 BGN. for a share determined after complex analysis including financial indicators, expected development, risk factors, valuations of acquisition of competing banks in Bulgaria, global and regional macroeconomic development and others, taking into account the interests of the shareholders of the bank. 4. The acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank at 27 million AD. Three hundred and fifty thousand. shares in the capital increase of the First Investment Bank, representing 18,35 per cent of the statutory capital of the bank, was carried out on a regulated market after approval of the prospectus by the Financial Supervision Commission and subject to the rules of the exchange. The deal was carried out under all the rules of the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union, under the supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank and the European Central Bank and in the conditions of continuous exchange of information with the Directorate-General...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... All these authorities define the transaction as a market. 5. In its report on Bulgaria of 24 April 2020, the rating agency Fitch highlighted among the factors that would individually or collectively lead to positive rating actions, including progress towards joining the Eurozone. As far as the capital increase of FIB is the last condition in Bulgaria's accession process to the Banking Union and ERM II, the deal has an entirely positive effect on the country's rating. The practical expression of this effect is the exceptional success that the Republic of Bulgaria has achieved in the marketing of the country's first external issue since 2016. 6. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Bank Union is also a guarantee for increased supervision and minimization of the risk of bankruptcy of banks in the country. Dear Mr. President, the report is signed by all Commissioners and members of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have signed with special opinion. The draft decision follows: At a meeting held on 29 September 2020, the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission on the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank (SSC) was adopted by 8 votes for the first time, 2 votes against the Council and without the votes of the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate on the report. Mr. Gechev, here you go. The difference between the "Emission" and the "Boursing value" probably.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I say in advance that our systematic explanation of why we have a particular opinion is two and a half pages away, that is, we will save time because we have made it very easy for you. So, why are we of particular opinion and definitely not going to support the conclusions in the report, although I am going to say in a collegiate way at the very beginning, the discussions took place calmly, it was ensured that everyone we wanted was answered to our questions, how was it answered, that is another question, but the conclusions in the report are absolutely unacceptable? Why? 1. The report does not reflect the following essential facts from the provided transcript from the extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers, where in this regard. 1 is discussed Report on actions taken by the Bulgarian Development Bank to acquire shares from an increase in the capital of the First Investment Bank. The meeting of the Council of Ministers was held on 12 June. Firstly, colleagues, in essence, the Council of Ministers has not discussed the joint report submitted by the ministers of finance and economics presented by the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov. His article was interrupted by the Prime Minister at the very first minute we were timing and the speaker was urged by the Prime Minister to read only the proposal for a solution. Thus, the decision to spend 140 million. lv. People's money is taken in less than three minutes without any discussion and no questions! Secondly, which is particularly important, and please listen carefully to the relevant institutions. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria stated before closing the meeting, I quote the minutes of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 12 June 2020: It is very important to stress that they will then be bought by the Bank at interest rates and will not lose in any way the Bulgarian Development Bank and the state. This must have been explicitly written down. Abort the meeting... This is false and misleading information from Prime Minister Borisov because: Firstly, in the course of the Commission's work and from the written opinions provided by the Financial Supervision Commission and the BBI, it is clearly clarified that there is no contract between the buyer and the seller of the newly issued shares of the First Investment Bank! The stock seller has no commitment under any conditions to buy back the shares acquired by the BBI! Moreover, the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the European Union clearly prohibit the conclusion of contracts for share buybacks under the conditions of the regulated capital market! Such statements by political parties everywhere are considered to be manipulation of the capital market and in most European Union countries such a statement is subject to criminal liability. Secondly, acquired shares could bear dividends, not interest, but let's say that this is a technical error. Neither redemption is possible nor there are guarantees to receive dividends in the future. It has been established by the answer to our questions the directors of the First Investment Bank categorically stated and provided information that in recent years, since the Bank has been made, no dividends have been distributed from the profits and the profit, albeit minimal, has been reinvested, which is good for the owners of the Bank, but it is not good for the other shareholders! I mean, so far, nothing has been distributed as dividends. After this deal by the end of the year no dividends have been distributed, that is, there is no redemption, there is no dividends! I mean, what the Prime Minister says is misleading. 2. No real risks were identified for the investment of State funds in particularly large amounts in a private bank: - The state has no representative in the management of First Investment Bank. We give 140 million, they clap their hands, the champagne spills from the owners, the state has no representative either in the Management Board or in the Supervisory Board! In other words, you gave the two main shareholders of First Investment Bank the state, 140 million plus another 60 million provided by a friendly private investor. They don't belong to the Bank's management, they don't distribute dividends, and those who gave the money drink cold water in large quantities! - There's no guarantee that that 140 million. lv. State money will bring some income to the state in the coming years or decades. This will most likely be a grant to the Bulgarian people and taxpayers for two quite wealthy investors. 3. We believe that the State buys the shares at a price significantly above the market price. What are our reasons? What are the facts? - The buyer Bulgarian Development Bank pays the shares at a price set by the seller First Investment Bank, recorded in the prospectus of the Bank. The Verification of the seller's prospectus by the Financial Supervision Commission does not oblige the buyer to pay this price, I specifically wish to emphasise! C.F.R. verifies the carrying amount. When a buyer goes to the market, I do not care at all what the book value of what is sold on the market is and its price is variable. I, the buyer, decide whether to buy or not to buy at that price. In a moment, I'll show you other incontrovertible facts. So it is written in the prospectus: the state pays BGN 5 although the market price is very different. - In the quoted transcript of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, of course. 2 of the Council of Ministers' decision is said: The participation of the Bulgarian Development Bank in the increase of the capital of the First Investment Bank is to be carried out under market conditions and up to 70 per cent of the total volume of subscribed and paid shares, according to the report under point. 1. End quote. But obviously it cannot be about market conditions in the implementation of the Council of Ministers' decision. The decision of the Council of Ministers does not mention the issue value of the shares of BGN 5 for a reason. For a share defined by the Governing Council and the Supervisory Board, note, the Bank's management set the price on 22 April 2020! They sit in ministerial councils, they spin around, they look for how to pay the price, but it was a market price! Amazing! - It is clear from the information on the Bulgarian Stock Exchange that during the months of May and June 2020, the shares of First Investment Bank were sold on the capital market at a price of about BGN 2.6. Moreover, it is clear from the data provided to us that in the days and months after the deal between the BBI and FIB, the price of the shares of the First Investment Bank of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange has consistently decreased in the period 13 June 12 October 2020. And this morning, fellow Members, here is a screenshot from the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. [[Shows it.]] I want to make an explanation. It has been said that this is a deal that strengthens trust in the banking system and increases the attractiveness of our banking system for foreign and our investors. Very well, only yesterday at 3:36 p.m. The last deal, the share price is BGN 1.80.! So with the participation of the Bulgarian state, with the approval of the European Central Bank, everything is legal, but not we, but the market says that you paid 5 BGN.! And the market says the price is BGN 1.80.! Moreover, the lowest price during the day was BGN 1.45.! You will say now: but this can only be for yesterday. Well, the facts are from the Exchange, here I read from the Exchange: The highest daily price of 1.82 BGN, the lowest daily price of 1.75. The lowest price per week is 52, lev and 45 pennies. The price change in the last 52 weeks, be careful, minus 42.31%! [[Shows.]] There's a lot of fairy tales. The truth is, the government hit the press and gave away $50 million. lv. to the Bulgarian people of their friends private investors! We will not support the spending of people's money! It's about time, the time is coming in two months to close the trunk of the SUV and stop the taxpayers' money leaking, the Bulgarian people! This money can go to kindergartens, can go to research. Stop with gifts in tens and hundreds of millions of levs! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u27	Thank you. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev, I have listened with interest to your speech and provoked me because this issue is not only political from what we have heard. I am surprised that the Commission, which was investigating this case, came up with some conclusions that are too sensitive and have nothing to do with reality. But my question to you is: don't you have any intention after what you have submitted as information, including with our support, to refer the prosecution to a crime that is apparent from the facts that you presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u29	Any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Gechev, although that wasn't exactly a line, it was a question. It wasn't a brief objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u30	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear colleague Vigenin, my answer is very easy: yes, if you do not refer to the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, which is unlikely to be self-serving, after two or three months I promise you that this issue should enter the Prosecutor's Office, because at first glance everything has been done legally. There is no way to justify themselves with the European Central Bank and others for any market transaction, after the Bulgarian Stock Exchange clearly shows that the market estimates almost three times the price at which, on one day, in one hour, the government adopted a decision of the Governing Council of the Bank from months ago. Obviously, this is a group of organized crime that will have long emotional and meaningful conversations with specialized institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not make a statement on the report, I will make a proposal.. editorially, or as you wish. In order not to wait for the prosecution to refer to itself and to wonder whether or not it will refer to itself, I propose, Mr. Chairman, that we write in the draft decision to this report that the National Assembly decides that this report should be sent to the Prosecutor's Office together with Professor Gechev's statement during the discussion. From then on, the prosecution, I suppose, knows what to do with the facts, circumstances and the National Assembly report. Otherwise, there is absolutely no point in this report, which will be adopted after the discussion. My proposal is that the Commission report, together with the speech, or with the entire debate to be held, be sent to the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u33	That's like a second point, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u35	First, he accepts the report. Secondly, the National Assembly decides to send the report to the prosecution together with the statement of the National Representative Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u36	Along with the debate, with the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u37	Okay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Prodanov, come in. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to take you back a little bit in time, maybe a year when we had to go into ERM II. Two of the main requirements of the European Commission to accept Bulgaria in the waiting room were a stable banking system and the creation of an explicit Law on the management of public enterprises. What have you fellow governors done? First, in relation to the stable banking system: you capitalized the private bank, and, as Professor Gechev said in his statement, you stole some 50 million of the Bulgarian taxpayers. The other thing you did on the other matter relating to the Public Enterprises Act...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u39	Mr. Prodanov, keep the respect to our MPs, please. You have to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u40	Yes, I'm talking about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u41	I'm not saying you don't talk about it, just pick your expressions!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u42	Yeah, I pick 'em out. I choose them very carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u43	Okay, go ahead, I'll apply disciplinary measures then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u44	On the second issue, which was a condition by the European Commission for our adoption in ERM II, was the establishment of the Public Enterprises Act. What did you do? You have created one law, then several times you have changed the deadlines for its implementation. It is about the appointment of the management and of the boards of directors, and of these state enterprises, and the facts are that you have not yet met the requirements of this law, despite the repeated increase in the deadlines for the implementation of the requirements of the Law. It turns out that also on the second issue, which was a condition for our admission to ERM II, we failed Europeans. In general, the price paid by the Bulgarian people for our admission to ERM II was extremely salty and Europeans were misled by the fact that what was adopted in the Public Enterprises Act was not yet implemented. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've chosen my words and everything I say is true.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u45	You didn't speak at the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u46	It's right at the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u47	You're not speaking. You're bringing back other topics. Are there any lines on Mr. Prodanov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I refer to this topic as a member of the Temporary Commission, which examined this case regarding the acquisition of shares by the Bulgarian Bank for the Development of First Investment Bank. What impressed me during the Commission's work today is the indifference of the government in terms of an extremely important case, namely the cost of 140 million. lv. from the taxpayer's money to buy shares from a private bank. Mr. Gechev made a good statement, a retrospect of what happened, but still I am surprised that you do not take any part in this topic. We can't go without any attention, and it has to be sharpened here, by this tribune, the way this whole thing is going on, how this money has been spent. Because after the statement of Prime Minister Borisov of the Council of Ministers there remain more questions than answers. First of all, did the Prime Minister lie to the Bulgarian citizens and his ministers, or did someone lie to the Prime Minister and mislead him to make false statements in a meeting of the Council of Ministers, where he said that these shares would be bought out, the treasury would be satisfied, it would be profit-making one thing that does not correspond at all to the real truth. Because during the discussions during the hearings in the committees, the representatives of the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank and all the other institutions who came there were not necessarily declared by representatives of the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank and all the other institutions that came there that, first of all, by law, such a thing could not happen. Secondly, there is no such practice to agree such redemptions, to pay dividends. Professor Gechev very correctly said that this bank, whose shares have been bought, does not have the practice of paying dividends over the years. To date, it has not paid off one lev dividend from its existence! And again I raise the question: who defends the interest of the Bulgarian taxpayer in this case? Is he even protected in any way? It is not protected because a product was presented to us, packed well in cellofance, in legal form, passed through the European Commission, passed through some institutions, came to us and read us how everything is okay, how everything is normal, but there remains the main question, not one or several. First, why was this money spent, why exactly in this bank, and why in this way? And who lied to the Prime Minister, or did he lie to us? Because we all remember his statement during the meeting of the Council of Ministers, when he said: if you see, that money will come back, and many times, it will be redeemed. Yeah, well, there's no such thing! That was very correct. And these remarks, which were made shortly before that, create the feeling that we have been lied to. Not only you here, but the entire Bulgarian people, all of us who have paid in some way, the Bulgarian citizens, these 140 million. It's okay to help banks, but this thing has to happen in a transparent way. Because colleagues who were in the Commission know: three times these shares have been offered, they have passed through the Financial Supervision Commission, they have been returned, they have been carried back, the price taming is 8 BGN. 5 leva. I'll give you 2 leva. Oh, yeah? The question here is, are the minority shareholders actually wronged who buy the shares of this bank on the market? Why they buy at 2.60 leva. according to the references they have come and the state buys at BGN 5.00.? Why can't these people buy at BGN 5.00? and sell at BGN 5, and at half price? Although everything is dressed in legal form, everything is supported by the necessary evidence, all officials have signed below does not mean that there is nothing rotten in the whole thing. I support it, and I call on my fellow Members to vote on a second point of the proposal made by Mr Svilenski, namely this report, with the conclusions of the two members who were from BSP in this committee, the particular opinion, to be sent to the prosecution. Let's get him checked out. Because we are not the competent authority that can say whether there is a violation here or not, because things have been presented to us in such a way that everything is accurate. Yeah, well, it's not exactly. We could not hear the attitude of the finance minister in this direction, what happened, because he was no longer the finance minister who was then, as written in the shorthand of the Council of Ministers, he was interrupted at the third minute in his exhibition. He couldn't even explain exactly what was supposed to happen and how it was going to happen. If there is another guilty person who has misled the Prime Minister, to be found and to be brought to justice, to the prosecution, to be held accountable. Because otherwise remains the feeling in the Bulgarian taxpayer, and probably in the prime minister, if he was misled, and, God forbid, it is his decision, because even worse, he will bear personal responsibility to say such things that this money will return. No, they're not coming back, honourable Members, there's no such practice. To this day, no movement has been made towards the Bulgarian Development Bank or the state to have a representative in the First Investment Bank to monitor how these funds are spent, how they are spent, how the capital of the state is managed. And that is why I call on common sense to support our proposal for a second point this thing to go to the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The interim committee has examined in detail, listened to all the institutions that are relevant to this transaction that we are talking about. The aim, as set out in the National Assembly's decision, was to clarify and analyse the facts and all the direct and indirect effects of this operation. In the detailed report you have met, and you have heard the facts and subsequent effects that the Commission has identified. I do not need to repeat the report's information, but there are a few points that are important to be addressed. The facts. The facts established after the hearing of the institutions involved show that the transaction is a market. It's been followed by absolutely all the rules, the law is respected, there's no doubt, there's no concern. The deal is repeatedly checked by the responsible institutions both in Bulgaria and Europe. No violations were found at all. Again, the deal was carried out under all rules of the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union under the supervision of the Bulgarian National Bank and the European Central Bank. It needs to be clear that this issue is an issue of entirely new shares. It has nothing to do with the secondary market, i.e. the prices at which the shares are traded on the exchange. In this issue each share has an issue value of BGN 5,00. for action. This price is determined after complex analysis, which includes financial indicators, expected development, risk factors, valuations of acquisition of competitive banks in Bulgaria, global, regional macroeconomic development and others. The interests of the Bank's shareholders are also taken into account. The acquisition by the Bulgarian Bank for the Development of these shares in the capital increase amounts to 18,35%. It was carried out on a regulated market following the approval of a prospectus proposed and reviewed by the Financial Supervision Commission. The effects. The most important thing to bear in mind, speaking of this deal, is that the acquisition of the Bank's shares is a strategic investment. It is related to expanding the operational potential of the Bulgarian Development Bank. This is not a speculative transaction in search of any financial effect or financial result. We're talking about a strategic deal here. In this sense, a conversation about redemption in search of some profit for the state I personally think is completely unnecessary. Here the profit is in times greater than the standard expectation of any monetary return. Here the profit is to cover the conditions for our country's accession to ERM II and the Banking Union. I think that this fact as a result is eloquent enough and we do not need to question or discuss the positive effects of our entering the Eurozone waiting room. This is a topic which has been repeatedly discussed and confirmed as a strategic goal for Bulgaria. I don't think there's anyone to argue about it. This is a goal that has already been achieved. In addition, the Republic of Bulgaria's accession to the Banking Union is also a guarantee of increased supervision and minimization of the risk of bankruptcy of a bank in the country. Moreover, in its report on Bulgaria from April last year, the rating agency Fitch stands out among the factors that would individually or collectively lead to positive rating actions, including progress towards joining the Eurozone. The increase in the capital of this bank was the last condition in our accession process to the Mechanism, that is, the deal has an entirely positive effect on our country's rating. And as an example of this entirely positive effect, it is important to note the exceptional success Bulgaria achieved in the sale of the country's first external issue since 2016. In addition, just a few words on the report itself. In the Commission report, we have very duly reflected the facts and effects that are mentioned in the report of the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance, which serves as the basis for the decision of the Council of Ministers, which the Members have spoken about since 12 June 2020. Once again, our committee was tasked with establishing facts and getting an analysis. The facts are based on the official opinions of the institutions, not on assumptions or searching for something hidden. It wasn't our job to look at the transcripts, yet one was provided. The talks made in these transcripts serve as the basis for their outcome, namely the official decisions or opinions that our committee has received as official opinions. Whether or not the Council of Ministers has discussed the report presented to them is not within the scope of the Temporary Commission. We are concerned with the decision taken and whether this decision has been properly implemented, which is. I give as a comparison a number of reports in the National Assembly, including the report I presented earlier. Members of the National Assembly shall be informed in advance of these reports. On the second or third minute, I was interrupted by the House inviting us to present the Report in summary because we do not need to read the whole. I assume that the situation was similar at the meeting, which was discussed just now. About the buyback request. Yeah, that's for the record. Yes, of course, at some point under certain circumstances and conditions this is an option. When the Interim Commission heard the Financial Supervision Commission, it explained to the Commission the Financial Supervision Commission that there was such an opportunity, but it relates to a different procedure. A special law lays down certain restrictions and requirements before the possibility of buying back the company's own shares and buying-in by other shareholders is realized through a tender offering. However, we are talking here about quite different procedures and they are different from the procedure that the Commission is considering and should therefore not be the subject of our debate at all. Once again, let me make it clear that this is not a deal with an expected financial result. This is an absolutely strategic deal that has been conducted legally. And in conclusion, honourable Members, this deal is fine. It's necessary. It is demonstrated by all the opinions given by the responsible institutions that we heard during the meetings of the Temporary Commission. I don't think we need to look for a hidden design, tell white black. I think the government reacts adequately and according to the law. Simply put, we had one last step to go. It is done, the result is there.. Bulgaria is accepted in ERM II and the Banking Union. The benefits exceed the investment in these shares many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? Mr. Gechev, come in. Mr. Nedyalkov, the mask, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me repeat once again what the facts are. First, there is no market price of 5 BGN. The price, repeat, and save the price of 5 BGN. is designated by the owners of the First Investment Bank on 22 April 2020, signed and stamped. I don't know what time it was 10 and 15 and 36 seconds, but April 22nd. But it's cynical to talk about a market price. What market price, what market? They put the stamp and the price, passed through the Financial Supervision Commission, hit the rubber stamp on Borisov's order and hence passes for validation. Isn't that clear? After that, here the coworker said how there was an opportunity for redemption. The Bulgarian legislation and the legislation of the European Union imprisons individuals who sign secret contracts. They cannot be obvious, redemption contracts. Think about it. So, there's an investor in the bank, and to meet the requirements of the European Central Bank, the bank, Hicks, takes from the investors, they invest 200 million at 10:00 and 15 minutes and report the deal, and the next morning at 10:00 and 16 minutes they take back their shares and the European Central Bank is cheated. How interesting! How's this gonna work? But they go to jail directly if there's only a secret contract, and there isn't. Redemption under these conditions leads to prison and not to facts and conclusions that first. That's two, after the price we said. Next, what are the facts? We will now sacrifice to the government who allowed him to sacrifice 140 million. lv. For strategic purposes? Well, they are so strategically strengthening the bats in Bulgaria. An owl company took 70 million from the bank to strengthen it to be stable in the European Union. Well, how is it that, by nearly 30 banks, this one can't be solved? Why the two wealthy shareholders...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u53	The weather, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u54	Dear colleagues, the two wealthy shareholders why don't they sell their yachts and properties in Bulgaria and outside it, and they will make us the regular Bulgarian, pay their bill? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I end up with one sentence, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Do you know that now in the balance of the Bulgarian Development Bank, we are waiting for the balance of the bank, and there will be about 50 million losses under the Bulgarian laws, caused by these decisions in favor of an oligarchic circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u55	Thank you. Are there any other lines? Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Angelova, in your statement you claim that the deal that has taken place is legal. Yeah, she'll probably be legal, but she's not moral. It is not moral, as has become known from the statement of Professor Gechev, to buy shares at a double price, especially if you buy them with taxpayers' money, because one of the main tasks of management is the correct, thrifty, wise use of people's money. It is obvious that in this deal this was not done this way. And the other thing you say in your speech, Mrs. Angelova, is that the deal, you see, is beneficial for Bulgaria because the goal is achieved to be accepted in ERM II. Not every political goal is justified to achieve...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u57	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u58	...in this way and with so much money, as I said, on the back of the Bulgarian taxpayers. So the deal...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u59	Do you want an increase in time?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u60	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u61	Go on. No, no, we increased the time because it wasn't increased.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u62	One minute. I mean, two minutes is what I'm...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u63	No, the band's time was up, and we just extended it, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u64	I basically graduated. Let me finish my thought. What I wanted to say on the second question about the price, about the political objective that you are achieving, our adoption into ERM II is not justified at all on the basis of the price that has been paid, as I said, double the market value for this transaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Is there a third line? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you started your speech by saying that the purpose of the Commission was to clarify the facts and circumstances. And I have a simple question: did you find after the Commission's work, did you find that the Bulgarian state was damaged by 50 million. lv.? Have you stated that the price at which the shares are acquired.. 5 BGN is currently BGN 1.70.? Did you find that, or under the general winding-up, that everything is legal, finally passes the Commission's finding? My question is: did you find the Commission, did you write that following this deal the Bulgarian state was damaged by 50 million. BGN, that shares of BGN 5 have become BGN 1.70 that no interest will be paid, as the Prime Minister said, and that no shares will return to the state at a price of BGN 5.? These are the simple questions that interest Bulgarian citizens, and that there are violations that there is speculation, that is undeniable. The question is to tell the Bulgarian citizens if you have found these things. And if what I'm saying is that you found that the shares would be returned to BGN 5 that the state was not damaged, then the prime minister was right. If you didn't find out, then the Prime Minister lied. You just have to decide who's lying to whether the Prime Minister, when he said that interest will be paid and returned to BGN 5 or when you are now offering us the Report and saying that there is no violation. You must decide which of the two countries lies to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u67	Your question is personal, isn't it? Because in the committee's finding, there is no such claim, you see the Report. Personally, it's the question. Mrs. Angelova, if you'd like to use your coat. You don't want to. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the proposed decision on the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I know. First, I will put Mr. Svilensky's proposal to the vote. It proposes that the proposed decision, which you have printed, should be a first point and that the second point be: The National Assembly decides that the report should be sent to the Prosecutor's Office, together with the debates on it. That's it, isn't it? I hereby put to the vote the editorial proposal to supplement the Decision. Vote 154 MPs: 65 against 80 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u68	It's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u69	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think it's clear exactly what's being voted on, so I'm asking for a re-vote. It is voted on the proposal that the report you have made be sent to the prosecution. I don't see why you're afraid, fellow Members, if you're confused. If you're not mistaken, that's really a problem. Is there anything disturbing about the report you've found? I won't. Let's send him along with the statements to the Attorney General's office to decide whether or not there's a violation. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Revoting procedure. Vote 163 MPs: 67, against 87, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision of the Temporary Commission, which has the following text: Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Temporary Commission on the occasion of the acquisition by the Bulgarian Development Bank (Bulgarian Development Bank) of 28 265 200 shares in the capital of the First Investment Bank. Vote 162 MPs: for 102, against 59, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are done with this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u72	Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL AIRCRAFT LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will present Mr. Letifov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u73	Thank you. If I may, first of all, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: please allow Mr. Veliko Zanchev to be admitted to the Deputy Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u74	I shall put the proposal to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry, but I'm not comfortable mentioning the names of MPs who violate the order of the House by speaking too loudly. Vote 117 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let Mr. Zanchev come in. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u75	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act No 002-01-75 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 13 January 2021, a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act was discussed, No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the bill. Part of the proposed amendments to the Civil Aviation Act amend and supplement the provisions concerning aviation safety and aviation security. The types of regulations on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2018 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and on the establishment of the European Union Aviation Safety Agency, which contain provisions establishing rights and obligations for the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation. The draft regulation regulates the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation Administration to be the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 376/2014, which is in line with the corrective action plan approved by the European Aviation Safety Agency after a standard inspection in 2018. Thus, according to importers, the non-compliance which has led to the initiation of a criminal infringement procedure of 2020/2024 since May 2020 will be removed because the authority for the application of art. 16 paragraphs 6, 9 and 11 of the Regulation. The provisions of the Law, which lay down common technical and administrative procedures to ensure the continuing airworthiness of aircraft, including all components for their installation, are also revised. New requirements in accordance with European Union law in the field shall be introduced to organisations providing pilot training, as well as those laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures in relation to air operations. The Bill establishes detailed rules for the implementation of air traffic management network functions requiring coordination of real-time civil aviation frequencies and should designate a body to carry out such coordination. It is proposed that this body is the Directorate General of the Air Transport Administration. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid granted to the airport operator is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The airport charges set by the airport operator under art. 122, para. 2, after their entry into force, to be published only on the operator's website, dropping the requirement to be published in the Official Journal. The change, according to importers, aims to alleviate the administrative procedure for both the airport operator and users. The operating conditions of unmanned aircraft shall also be laid down. It is envisaged that unmanned flight systems, other than those with a maximum permissible take-off weight below 20 kg, are operated only for sporting or recreational purposes, have third party liability insurance as well as registration of the operator of the unmanned flight systems where it is subject to registration, as required by Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/947. The draft law introduces a new classification of airports. By setting up the provision, the International Aviation Services Airports for general use and the possibility for certain small airports, which are at present flight stations, if they have adequate equipment and comply with the requirements of the regulations, to be able to operate international flights from general aviation. Part of the proposed changes to the Civil Aviation Act are related to the need to harmonise our national legislation with the requirements and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 2018/1139 and its implementing rules in Commission Regulation (EU) No 139/2014 of 12 February 2014 laying down requirements and administrative procedures in relation to aerodromes in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council, providing for the cancellation of the obligation of the Directorate-General for Aviation to certify the suitability of each system and ground handling facility. In addition, the subject of the activity of the State-owned undertaking shall be completed with the following activities: - air traffic management at controlled airports; - designing airspace structures; - developing flight procedures. As regards aviation security, the proposed changes aim to refine the texts in relation to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1998 of 5 November 2015 laying down detailed measures for the implementation of the common basic standards on aviation security, which provides that certification or approval procedures pass through persons carrying out security checks and controls. The proposed amendments to the Civil Aviation Act also clarify the texts relating to the protection of passengers' rights. During the presentation of the Bill Mr. Zanchev pointed out that with separate texts of the Law it is planned to drop the obligation of the Minister of Finance together with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to propose to the Council of Ministers the terms and conditions by which the airport charges are determined and the cases in which they are collected. In view of the nature of the public relations regulated by the regulation, according to importers, it is not necessary to assign civil aviation-related responsibilities to the Minister of Finance. The bill also envisions that the air operator "Airport 28, special-purpose flights' should be renamed as State Aviation Operator. Texts are also scheduled to govern the transfer of assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations of the operator. Participants in the discussion on the bill took part the MPs Halil Letifov, Ivan Valkov and Dimitar Danchev. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 11 votes "for" and 9 votes "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications. You have the floor, dear Mr. Lazarov, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u77	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. At a meeting held on 14 January 2021, the Commission examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Hristo Shterionov, Director of the General Directorate of Air Administration, and Mr. Hristo Gunchev Head of the Department of the General Directorate of Air Administration. Mr. Veliko Zanchev presented the Draft and the reasons for its introduction in the part concerning the amendments and additions in the field of aviation security related to the specific activities carried out by the State Agency for National Security to carry out an overall security check for persons fulfilling their duties in the security areas and by its Chairman as co-chair of the Civil Aviation Security Council. The Bill proposes that the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who directs and controls civil aviation, in agreement with the Minister of Interior and with the Chairman of the State Agency. The proposal follows from Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2019/947 on the rules and procedures for the operation of unmanned aircraft. In order to achieve compliance with Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/103 with regard to clarification, harmonisation and simplification, as well as strengthening certain specific aviation security measures, it is proposed that the State Agency An obligation to carry out an inspection of persons who will be the head of security of civil aviation operators shall also be established on objective and specific criteria available to administrations that will give their approval. The bill provides for a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from specific designated executive bodies to determine the order to force an aircraft that violated the rules of the law to land, as well as the order to authorise the continuation of its flight. In support of the bill was issued an opinion by the State Agency of National Security. After the discussion, the Commission, with 3 votes for the Civil Aviation Act, with no objection, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Valkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act mainly makes proposals and amendments that are in the field of aviation security and safety, as well as texts that relate to passengers' rights. These are basically texts that are implemented by European legislation, and on these proposals I will not stop. I will focus on two main proposals, one of which is related to the fees collected by the Directorate-General for Air Administration. It's administrative fees. One part of them will be updated and there will be new ones that are related to new activities, activities that are related to documents for aviation personnel, operators and other such organisations, as well as certificates, certificates and permits. The other major change that has been made in our proposed amendment and supplement bill is related to a reduction of the administrative burden and it refers mainly to the proposal reflected in § 25, art. 44, which concerns the abolition of the licensing of each transport unit related to passenger, baggage and cargo services. This is a serious burden affecting the activities of the companies, an administrative burden that will be removed and will remain only the license that belongs to the ground operator and will be able to control the operation of that operator itself and regulate its activity. This is based on Regulation 2018/1139. In this regard, the political party GERB parliamentary group will support the so-made bill, and I suggest you do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-20.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I close the debate and move on to the vote, fellow Members. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act, No 002-01-75, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2020. They voted 117 MPs: 91, none, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. This was the last item on today's agenda. Tomorrow, 21 January 2021, regular plenary sitting at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
