ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, the Program for Today, voted yesterday's Program, includes two hearings today by the Minister of Interior Boyko Rashkov and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev. On the basis of art. 47, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Programme for today's sitting on 23 December 2021 be as follows: First of all, the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax with importers Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021, and the Bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax with importers Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs on 22 December 2021, making this the first point for today's plenary. Secondly, Draft Decision approving additional expenditure and transfers under the State budget for 2021 at the expense of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021. Importer The Council of Ministers on 22 December 2021 becomes point two for today's plenary session. Thirdly, Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the anti-epidemic measures introduced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against COVID-19. Importers.. Kostadin Kostadinov and a group of MPs. This is the point that has not been seen since yesterday and it will become the third item for today's plenary session. The remaining points provided for today's plenary shall be renumbered accordingly. Colleagues, please vote on the proposed amendment of the Programme. Vote 215 MPs: for 211, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We're going to take an oath from the MP. A decision of the Central Election Commission has been adopted: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1067-NS 22 December 2021 Subject: Announcement of Dimitar Danailov Nedyalkov as National Representative in the Nineteenth Election Region of Ruseski, in the 47th National Assembly With an inch. No НС-02-126 of 22.12.2021 in the CEC was received a letter from the President of the National Assembly with an application with Еc. No AD-47-1194-6 of 22.12.2021 by Tsvetomir Donev Konov, saying that he does not wish to be a MP. In the light of the above, the Central Election Commission accepts that by the application Tsvetomir Donev Konov refuses to take authority and to take an oath as MP in the 47th National Assembly according to art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. By Decision No 1055-NS of 20.12.2021, the Central Election Commission has declared as MP Tsvetomir Donev Konov under No 5 of the Coalition's list "We are continuing the Change" in the Nineteenth Election Region of Rusenski, at the place of Nikolay Yordanov Sabev for the time during which Nikolay Yordanov Sabev served as Minister. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code and Decision No 1 of 16 January 1992 under the Code of Conduct No 18/91 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the 47th National Assembly in the Nineteenth Election Region of Rusenski, Dimitar Danailov Nedyalkov, NGN..., under No 6 of the Coalition's list We continue to change the position of Nikolay Yordanov Sabev for the time during which Nikolay Yordanov Subev served as Minister. The decision to promulgate in the Official Journal. I ask the Quaestors to invite the elected MP to the oath room. [[Everyone gets up.]] I'll take the oath. Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u3	Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to item 1 of the agenda for today, namely: FIRST VOICE OF - THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW ON ADDED LOANS. Importers s Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, and - THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW ON ADDED LOANS. Importers "Ljubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs. A report has been deposited by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the two bills. Mr. Karimanski, please come as Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-154-01-6, submitted by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021, and a Bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, No 47-154-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs on 22 December 2021. At an extraordinary meeting held on 22 December 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined those draft laws. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Asen Vassilev The bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act No 47-154-01-6 was presented by the MP Mr. Kiril Ananiev. It proposes an extension until 31 December 2022 of the period for applying a reduced rate of 9 percent VAT for the supply of books, restaurant and catering services, foods suitable for babies and young children, and for baby diapers and similar baby hygiene articles as set out in Annex 4 to the Value Added Tax Act. The VAT retention rate is mandatory in order for the sectors most affected by the crisis to maintain jobs and to be able to create new working conditions in line with the change in the general economic and social environment. The benefits for all sectors are indisputable. By 31 December 2022 business and Bulgarian citizens must be supported. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The bill amending the Value Added Tax Act No 47-154-01-8 was presented by MP Lyubomir Karimanski. The bill aims to introduce a change within the current period for the application of a reduced rate of 9 per cent and to deal with the consequences of the pandemic of COVID-19 by proposing that the reduced rate be applied until the declared exceptional epidemic situation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to COVID-19 is terminated for the supply of: - books on physical media or carried out by electronic means or both, including textbooks, cognitive books and study sets, children's books with illustrations, drawing or colouring books, printed or handwritten notes, other than publications which are wholly or principally intended for advertising, and other than publications which are wholly or principally composed of video content or audio musical content; - Restaurant and catering services, which consist of the supply of prepared or unprepared food, including those consisting of the delivery of food for home; this shall not apply to restaurant and catering services, which consist of the supply of spirit drinks, including in the cases referred to in art. 128; - foods suitable for infants or young children under Annex No 4; - baby diapers and similar baby hygiene articles as specified in Annex 4; - supply of a common tourist service in cases under art. 136 as well as excursions organised by tourist operators and travel agents with occasional bus transport of passengers; - delivery of a service for the use of sports facilities. The bill complies with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the Decree on its implementation and of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. In the course of the discussion, the MPs united in support of the Draft Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax introduced by the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of MPs with the following editorial amendment: all over the text of the Law, the words "recession of the declared exceptional epidemic situation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, related to the COVID-19 Following the conclusion of the discussion, a vote was held, which received the following results: on a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-154-01-6, tabled by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021, 7 votes On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47-154-01-8, tabled by the National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 22 December 2021, with the following editorial amendment: all over the text of the Draft, the words "recession of the declared exceptional epidemic situation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, related to COVID-19" shall be replaced by
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I give the floor to the bill importers. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of proposals by the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS Bill amending the Law on Value Added Tax is to change the date by which the reduced differentiated rate of 9% for VAT will be applied for the sectors that were mostly affected by the economic crisis due to COVID-19. You know that the first case of COVID-19 in Bulgaria was registered on 8 March last year, as a result of which the third government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov took urgent measures and within a few weeks restructuring the state budget in order to ensure the necessary socio-economic measures to support people and businesses. One of the most important measures was to support businesses that were most affected by the economic crisis as a result of COVID-19. The President of the Budget Committee rightly pointed out the sectors, I think it is not necessary to repeat which were helped by reducing VAT from 20 to 9% differentiated rate. In this way, the opportunity was created to help businesses in these difficult conditions, to create the necessary organisation to save thousands of jobs. It even worked out that conditions were created to increase wages in these businesses, not just to preserve people, as well as to create the necessary new environment in which they should work. As a result of the late formation of the Forty-Seventh National Assembly one of the first urgent tasks that GERB-SDS parliamentary group set up was to prepare this bill in order to create a normal environment for it to be able to continue next year. The date 31 December 2022, which adopted our colleagues from the ruling majority, is the reasonable date because it also corresponds to the budget process itself. Since the budget for the following year starts from 1 January and ends on 31 December 2022, and within this period, the Ministry of Finance, the Government and, respectively, we as MPs are about to review and approve the budget for the next year, we must include the necessary resources necessary for the implementation of this differentiated reduced rate of 9%, for the sectors that have been mentioned. In this way we will create normal conditions for this business to be able to continue its activities, as you see that the pandemic continues. It won't end in phase four. Hopefully, with God's help, the next stage will be lighter and less damage to both citizens and Bulgarian businesses! However, as a country which is obliged to anticipate all the factors that would have a social impact on the population and, of course, on the economic activity of our economic operators, we are obliged to predict this resource in the 2022 budget. For your information, our estimates have been made about 275 million for the period from 1 July last year to the end of this year. lv. In fact, the state helped these several sectors so that they could continue to work normally. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, of course, I raised the question before the Minister of Finance and asked him to give an assessment of what the continuation of this measure would cost and throughout 2022. BGN to be included in the draft budget for 2022 I think we've found a common solution with our colleagues in the ruling majority. They adopted the date 31 December that we proposed to make sure that we have ensured that this reduced differentiated rate is introduced all year round. They added to our proposal two more sectors that were not in our proposal, so we came to a consensus on the text of the Bill amending the Value Added Tax Act. As always, our group has been extremely responsible. Since the process, i.e. the entry of the COVID-19 infection into our country, occurred during the rule of our government, we know what the price is for both citizens and businesses. We have a consistent policy on socio-economic measures for both the population and the Bulgarian business, and this is a natural continuation of the policy that we conducted during our governance. Unfortunately, due to the late formation of the cabinet, we had to react urgently. I think that today's presentation of the Bill to the National Assembly, although at the last moment, will create the necessary environment and calmness in business to be able to plan its activities next year. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Are any of the importers of the next bill going to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. Mr. Kiril Ananiev painted everything that happened yesterday in the Budget and Finance Committee, so I will not repeat what we discussed. We'll save time so we can move on. After all, we are on the eve of Christmas holidays and to prepare ourselves with the mood to welcome them. The main arguments that we had in connection with the proposed bill are to have a comprehensive and complete scope so that no one outside the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax remains, and that is why our goal was to identify each of the groups that should be within the scope of this amendment. That's what we did. I am pleased that the opposition has agreed to write each of the groups within the scope of this bill so we have included it in the report you have just heard. What Mr. Ananiev said, and I will stress again, is that on the basis of the preliminary assessment of the impact of the Amendment Bill that we have tabled, for all 2022 or until 31 December 2022, the amount that may be is 175,100 million. BGN, so this can bear the budget for 2022. I think this will only give peace to all interested parties in the scope of this law. Of course, it's important just before Christmas to give that sign. Naturally, personally, I will be very vigilant in the next few months about how much the scope of application of this law is being respected, as there are some concerns. A few minutes ago, colleagues from GERB-SDS shared with me about audiovisual books. We are talking here about the delivery of this type of book, about the delivery of books electronically. We do not change the essence, we do not change the scope, we do not include new scope in the Law, so we will monitor strict compliance. At the moment, with this law, we are making an extension of the deadlines and the possibility that business is calm that what we have undertaken as a commitment and in the update, and now we will keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u10	Mr. President, I would like to draw attention to what happened yesterday to the Finance Commission. There is also the Minister of Finance. The main thing is what is currently offered by the project of GERB-SDS took the good, added to the good of the other project. I welcomed that. However, there are other nuances that were mentioned at the presentation of the two projects, which are to some extent accurate, but are not comprehensive. More precisely, these things that we are going to vote on right now, and I guess we're all going to approve, do not cover some of the basic things in terms of people who are the most suffering right now. What we have been seeing for two years as a health crisis has been completely transferred to the economy and people who were already the poorest in the poorest country in the European Union, because this is Eurostat statistics, are suffering even more. It turns out that people who have the lowest income are currently buying food and medicines with the highest VAT or at least the highest VAT in the European Union. That's why I asked the Minister of Finance yesterday, did they estimate how much it would cost to cut at least 9% the small consumer basket and medicines? Because I say again: if it is not a problem for those present in this Chamber to buy food and medicine, it is a colossal problem for the majority of Bulgarians to pay for electricity, to go to buy medicine and eventually eat. For warmth, I don't comment at all. That's why the minister said that at this point he couldn't answer me right away. I understand that, but according to his data, between a billion billion and something would cost reducing VAT in terms of the small consumer basket. By keeping and fighting for all that we have taken on as commitments, this is also one of the things. We have said that we will fight to reduce and eliminate VAT on the small consumer basket and on medicines. Given that we are at the end of the year, we will presently submit a proposal to amend precisely the VAT rate for the small consumer basket and medicines. Because I say again: this is fateful for people who live in Bulgaria. The vast majority of people are poor, and if we are currently supporting the restaurants and all of this business, which was mentioned just now, if we reduce the VAT rate for food products, for medicines, we will stimulate the business again because we currently have a stagnation of consumption. High prices lead to less consumption. If we reduce the rate and those amounts that would be deducted from the budget, because, by the way, the minister of finance has said that up to now there are over 1 billion. 200 million. lv. over what they planned extra revenue, but there will really be a lot more when the final figures come out, and if we reduce the tax that each of us pays by entering the store or the pharmacy, we will stimulate consumption. We will help people in this health crisis to be able to buy medicines, because for a Kovid it has been commented that the state will provide free medicines, but there is no such thing for months. I just won't! Only documents in one or two points do this. There are no free meds to be provided! That is why I say again: we will support the proposed amendments so, but we will submit a proposal for an addition to this whole thing and I hope that the Committee on Budget and Finance will come together, after which Parliament will be able to come together, and that something will be voted on in the name of the poorest part of the Bulgarian people, which, unfortunately, is the huge part of us. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. A line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman! In the AGE programme we have recorded seven years ago something that has been introduced as a practice in a large part of the countries of the European Union, namely that for three types of goods, so to call them, VAT must be reduced to zero percent. These are the drugs, the food from the small consumer basket and the books. What is the current situation in the European Union and in some countries that are neighbouring us in the European Union and in Britain, which is not a member of the European Union, but is one of the most developed economies in the world and at the same time a European country? In Britain, for medicines and for books, VAT is zero percent. In Germany, food VAT for everyone, not only for the small consumer basket, is 7%. In Hungary, the VAT is 5% for food and medicines. In both of our neighbouring Balkan and European Union member states, Greece and Romania, things are as follows: in Greece, 6% for medicines and books, and in Romania, 9% for food, for medicines and for books. At the moment, as has been said by the previous Tsoncho Ganev, this proposal, which we are going to make at the moment, is because of the expectations, however, a much more serious pressure on the budget if the VAT price, or rather the VAT value, is reduced to zero percent. We will offer 9%, but in the next budget under discussion for next year we will propose and make a financial framework that will justify this proposal for zero percent VAT on medicines, books and foods from the small consumer basket. In the poorest country in the European Union, the price of goods and services in terms of those most important to the poorest people, those to whom in fact 95% of their income goes exactly for this and for the accounts, of course, for electricity and for water, the VAT is high. Strangely, because although this topic has been put here many times, we are far from the first to comment on this issue, I very much hope that we are not the last, so far no approval has been received. In this situation, now that we have an emergency epidemiological situation, according to the Minister of Health, it would be appropriate to consider precisely those people who are paying the highest price. We're thinking about them, aren't we? Isn't health the most important thing? Isn't that why a campaign for forced vaccination is being carried out, all in the name of people's health?! Well, let's think about the financial health of those people who are currently paying for the drugs! If we can't give them money, because in a moment, we will comment on a measure that will, of course, be supported by entrepreneurs, but if we can't give money to the people who are the most affected by the situation at the moment, the poor people, the pensioners, our grandparents, our parents, let us at least not take money from them. And this is a measure on which we will insist on thinking, working, considering, and accepting. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches? Mr. Thomas Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The GERB parliamentary group SDS will support the proposal of its colleagues from AGE and we would also like to add to the books a rather supplementary proposal. Where ebooks and books are concerned, add audiobooks that are currently being treated as audio carriers and are not being treated as books. This is important in our view, because it is mostly related to people who are blind, who thanks to the audiobooks have access to literature, besides, of course, all others who listen to audiobooks. So our proposal is for them to be aligned with books and with e-books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u15	Eva Miteva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u16	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the debate is only about extending the reduced VAT with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the VAT Act. Here the debate is not which other products, goods and services to reduce to 9% or to any other percentage. So, Mr. Bikov, there is no way to add the audiobooks, as we are not at all in these texts of the VAT Act, but we are simply extending the period of already reduced VAT. There is such a people and many times in the previous parliament we had proposed a reduction in VAT for fruits and vegetables, including during the campaign, and we were one of the first to say that we were to reduce 9% of VAT for food of the first need. But this isn't the debate. So, yesterday in the Commission, all the MPs have united around the opinion that the draft should be adopted in one sitting... at two votes in one sitting, precisely because it is only about extending the period of a bill already adopted. So let's not replace the debate, let's go back to it, and the debate itself essentially about reducing VAT on other products, let's leave it for next year when we look at tax laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Miteva. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bikoff, the douche bag? [[Reply.]] I won't. Here you go, Hristo Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In principle, I had no intention of speaking, but I was slightly provoked by the statement whether the debate was essentially or not and whether the proposals could be admitted or not. Let's remember last week's debate about art. 73, para. 10, namely whether there should be public discussions or some form of public discussions before the bills. By the way, after you saw our bill, you remembered to submit one so there would still be a New Year's reaction. We understand that the deadlines are short, not to say anything, and it needs to happen as quickly as possible in order to actually enter into force from January 1st.... this is understandable, only, colleagues, why have you waited until now? It could have happened sooner than the beginning of the month, but you obviously had other priorities. And then we could meet the requirements of art. 73, para. 10 who were passionately protected by both the "Democratic Bulgaria" and the "There is such a people" as well as the BSP, but now it has not happened. We understand the option.. you explain that there is an element of urgency and when it is urgent and important, the Rules can be circumvented. Well, colleagues, it's always urgent and important or surrounded by the Rules. You can always find a reason to bypass the Rules of Procedure. By the way, whether it is in substance or not, I remember last week's previous debate, when it came to the fact that even if the proposals were not in substance, if the National Assembly considered, i.e. not to be on the main text, it could allow them. This text remains in the Rules of Procedure. So, colleagues, welcome to a well-forgotten old one, because what you're doing really brings back the old practices and don't say any more that you're doing something different.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Any lines to Mr. Gajev? I won't. To speak, Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group will support the submitted project. There is no point in saying on what grounds it is clear to all. We have to extend the duration of these reliefs that we have given to the business for a species of crisis. Whether they are enough is another topic. Whether this particular VAT measure was necessary or another is also another topic. Neither do we have the time nor do we have the opportunity to expand or change the design of the measures at the moment. At the moment, we are about to accept something in a very urgent order to act on it from January 1st and not stress the business environment quite purposefully. But that doesn't cancel the debate on several subjects. The first topic is what procedures do good intentions go through? Are we following procedure or not? And when we talk about restoring parliamentaryism, I'll try to remind you every time, I hope you don't find me annoying. Recovery is that all things happen through established procedures because then there is a debate, then there is a hearing of different opinions, and in fact this is parliamentaryism and then the right decisions are made. Of course, we're not in this hypothesis given the timing. For this reason, we will even support an absurd exception to the tax law to be adopted at two readings in one sitting, so that we do not delay this process and to, I said already, we do not stress the business environment. But we're also going back to what Mr. Gajev said just now. Now do you understand from DB why we are not so extreme when it comes to the bills going through a discussion? Yeah, it's good to go through public discussion, but it's good to know it's not Conditio sine qua non, because there are cases where you can do without them. There are cases in which the National Assembly, the MPs will be faced with the hypothesis of passing a law without it being discussed. To make use of their constitutionally binding power of legislative initiative and, respectively, of a legislative process without hearing the sacred NGOs, without even hearing the more sacred trade unions, without even hearing the more sacred organizations of business. Because there are situations like this, life is quite different from what we want. It's nice, I say again, I don't deny the legislative process going under some kind of public control. I deny the absolutism of this request and its introduction into such legal dogmas that cannot be skipped. That is why we have always opposed this type of limitation of the legislative initiative in the legislative process in the Rules of Procedure. Or perhaps after New Year's Eve, it is better for the majority to consider a more meaningful and broader debate on the design of the measures. Because the crisis is a crisis, but also the crisis itself to use this word again, there is already a different design over time in terms of both the business environment and the people and the institution. What we're going on is not the best. In this case, we are faced with the hypothesis of rushing. But I'm just reminding you that we're gonna have to have this debate. Thank you. We'll support the bill. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u21	Thank you. For a statement? Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Tsonev, first on the topic that you have addressed for public discussions and public consultations. As we have very often said from this tribune, "Democratic Bulgaria" supports and will support public consultations, but it is aware of the context. It is no accident that the Law on the Rules of Procedure in § 1 of the Additional Provisions provided for exceptions to the hypotheses of public consultation and public consultation and one of the hypotheses is overcoming force majeure. It is in this hypothesis that we find ourselves today. You rightly pointed out that there is no way to hold a public discussion right now, because we have an extremely important decision to make. I hope, colleagues, that we will take him to a meeting so that the Law can enter into force from the beginning of the year. Of course, "Democratic Bulgaria" will support the bills, because this is the responsible political solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there another line to Mr. Tsonev? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Honorable Mr. Slavov, I thank you for confirming what I said, because that is exactly what I said that there are exceptions and therefore there should be no absolute rules. Now let me ask Mrs. Iva Miteva: did we put in the Rules a text that did not, in fact, allow us to skip? Was it on DB's offer? There was no possibility of skipping legislation without public discussion. Then we changed it, just put the tape back. [[(Reply from National Representative Iva Mitev:]] We softened, says Mrs. Miteva. So I'm just putting the tape back not because of some reproach, but because when we're having the debate, we need to see where a mistake has been made in any situation that shows the error in order not to allow it to happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u25	Thank you. Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's a very short statement. I'm returning the tape to the present, at the moment. Let us be pragmatic, let us save time and be precise about what we are currently discussing. And please, when we do not want to expand the scope of the subject, stick to it. Is there anyone in this room who will explain to the business that he, with his arguments, even though he supports the Law, but because he wants public discussion, will hold a public discussion and we will have to not accept this law at a plenary sitting at first and second readings. I don't think there's such a person in this room, and there's such a MP who wouldn't support this thing. This works for business, so I call for us to return pragmatically to the subject we are discussing and move on to welcome a merry Christmas. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Any lines to Mr. Karimansky? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, I am voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act submitted by Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 21 December 2021. [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] No, we'll vote them separately, Mr. Ananiev! [[Noise and lines.]] No, they're not united! Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are voting separately on the two bills! The first vote shall be voted on separately! First we will vote on the Draft Law of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs, then on the Law of Lyubomir Kariminski, Georgi Svilenski, Georgi Ganev. [[Relations from the National Representative Kostadin Angelov.]] We didn't vote on it, Mr. Angelov, we're voting on it now! He's been seen at the Commission! We are going to vote on the Bill of Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs. Vote 212 MPs: 95, against 62, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the next bill submitted by Lyubomir Karimanski, Iva Miteva, Andrey Gurov, Georgi Svilenski and Georgi Ganev. They voted 212 MPs: 169, none, abstention 43. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, just to clarify the first vote, the bills are voted separately, then united! Here you go, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 76, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the bill adopted at the first vote amending the Law on Value Added Tax, No 47154-01-8, submitted by the Members of the National Assembly on 22 December 2021, be adopted at the second vote in today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u29	Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As far as I was following the debate, I heard that there were ideas made about proposals between the two readings. Whether they will be admissible or inadmissible, I will quote you Art. 79, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which says: "The proposals that come within the scope of the bill adopted at first vote, if any, shall not be examined and voted on the substance, but the Commission shall rule on inadmissible by decision. "I mean, the Commission must come together and decide whether such proposals are admissible or inadmissible. If we are currently voting on this thing, it means derogating the right to legislative initiative of the Members of the National Assembly something that, by the way, was said earlier in the debate that it is not right and should not happen. So I don't know how much such a proposal is admissible. I leave it to your conscience. [[National Representative Lyubomir Karimanski wants the floor for a reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u31	No, you don't have a line! You have no right to a line, Mr. Karimansky, I'm sorry! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kostadinov, the ideas for proposals came from you, but they will have a separate bill. That's what I understand, isn't it? I'm voting on Mr. Karimansky's proposal. They voted 214 MPs: 175, against 18, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karimansky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Act amending the Value Added Tax Act. I propose that we keep the title of the Law and from now on I want to read the whole law so that it is clear at second reading what we are going to vote on. ................................................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act in § 4 of the Final Provisions, the words § 2. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax in § 70 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words.. 31 December............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Final provisions § 3. In the Law amending the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in § 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words § 4. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2022. Here I propose the editorial amendment: everywhere in the text of the Draft Law, the words "recession of the declared exceptional epidemic situation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria related to the CIVID-19" shall be replaced by "31 December 2022." Please be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u33	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening discussions. Here you go, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u34	Mr. Chairman! I understand that most of you are pressed by the time and the rest that is most likely waiting for them. Many of you will go safely abroad, you have a green certificate and you have no problem with the Maldives waiting for you. [[Arrival in GERB-SDS and DPS.]] However, our proposal does not concern the people who will travel abroad, but those who are struggling to survive. And when we want to import the food rate, the most necessary food and medicines, it is the poorest people. That's why I have a proposal and I want, if we don't have so much time and everyone is in a hurry to go to the Maldives, the Finance Committee can decide whether or not to decide, and if you want to write, we can get together in writing next week, and then we can get together here. But let us take measures and show the poorest part of the Bulgarian people that the National Assembly is not only thinking about restaurants, but also about how to buy medicines. Because for many of you, it's not a problem to buy drugs, but for people it's a problem. I therefore call again on us to bring together, if necessary, the Committee on Finance, and then on this vote that you want at the moment, and then decide whether or not the Commission is admissible. And if it's acceptable, let's go down the road to get to a decision that would benefit not one of us and not that someone wouldn't go on vacation, but to sit down and talk about the time between Christmas holidays and New Year's. Thank you. [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u35	Here's a line for you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ganev, first of all, as Vice-President, it is good to learn the Rules, because you must also follow them, and to lead the meeting sometime. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] All of your ideas, which you said from the stands and you, and Mr. Kostadinov, Mr. BSP for Bulgaria and Mr. Kostadinov for more than five years, offer them in this Chamber for a reduction of VAT and food and textbooks and books and medicines. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] But BSP knows when and how to offer them when the state budget is being looked at. We're not in that kind of procedure right now. We are currently in procedure to continue the term of a bill in force. I understand your desire here from the stands to talk about Maldives, Seychelles and anywhere, but I am sure that neither of us will go away, simply thus destroying the authority of the National Assembly. There's nothing else you can accomplish with that statement. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]] We are currently in a procedure to vote on the draft at a second reading "Bulgarian business and Bulgarian citizens expect it from us. They don't expect scandals, they don't expect another fight here who, where and how will celebrate the holidays. I call on Mr. Ganev to focus on the bills that we need to vote on. There is a time for politics, it is not good to be from this tribune, but it is inevitable that some time it happens, and we move on to voting on the bill. You have not even made a proposal, you have told some ideas here from the stand, but I repeat, the Rules say otherwise and you as Vice-President should know how the proposals are made, how they are imported, where they are discussed, when they are discussed and how they are finally adopted. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u37	Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ganev, populism has not helped anyone. At the moment you are trying to turn some citizens of the state against other citizens of the state, one business against another business only for the purposes of populism. And since we've already offered to cancel our vacation once, you didn't agree, we firmly state that we are ready to work and cancel our vacation, as long as you offer it in order to have time. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Abrovsky. Is there a third line to Tsoncho Ganev? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u40	I am very glad that the President of the BSP parliamentary group spoke about knowledge of rules and regulations, but I would like to remind you that while you, as part of the ruling majority, spent two weeks fighting to introduce a green certificate in order to work here, had to put this thing into place then. And when you brought it in then, there was a time to discuss it, then we would have submitted our proposals in writing as well. Because you're missing that when the House left here yesterday at 7:30, an extraordinary Budget and Finance Committee was called? When exactly am I supposed to bring anything in, considering I found out 15 minutes earlier? [[Noise and lines.]] When exactly, did we have to do this today? Today or last night at 12:00 a.m., shall we call the Office?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u41	Yesterday!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u42	Please be so correct when you point out some facts, to be honest and to say: two weeks we wasted time, the minister did not enter anything, and on the last day when we had to leave, we will proceed at first and second reading, as noted here, which is unacceptable, but we will vote on it. Sorry, we're not talking about some village to vote on something. We're talking about a VAT change! [[Arrival in GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u44	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u45	Mr. Svilensky, let's go to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u46	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. Chairman, please give your Vice-President a rule of law. Mr. Ganev, you've been a MP for over two weeks, three maybe. After the first day you swore by this tribune, you can bring whatever you want. You do not need any National Assembly committees to submit bills or proposals. They are then discussed in the composed committees. As there are, by the way, legislations tabled by many parliamentary groups - six or seven - are waiting for the committees to be drawn up. You didn't bring anything in for two weeks, and here you are teaching us how the BSP for Bulgaria was taking committees yesterday until seven o'clock. You didn't want the committees to be adopted yesterday and you wanted us to deal with committees today so that we wouldn't look at these laws. So, when you speak from this tribune, I repeat, I am the chairman of a parliamentary group, but you are the Vice-President of the National Assembly and you must speak with facts without inventing any of your messages. And I will not allow you to abuse, of course, the BSP parliamentary group. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u47	Thank you. I give the floor to Georgi Ganev. Then there's a statement from Kostadin Kostadinov. And please, fellow Members, let's get to the point of the debate. Maybe it doesn't make much sense to go in...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know there's been a mix-up with the Ganev family, but there's a lot of us. What I'm trying to say is what this is really about. I fully agree with all colleagues from GERB-SDS and DPS that the situation is exceptional and normally should not happen in this way. But one of the reasons for being able to do so is that it is only one correction of one number with another...................... is................................................................ is........... Any other amendments make it unacceptable to pass two readings in one sitting. Here we are talking about making an amendment in this bill, which extends the scope of the exceptional VAT rates from 9% outside of those goods and services that they already exist since July 2020. This thing cannot happen without a prior impact assessment and without public discussion of all these sacred cows that Mr. Tsonev is talking about. That is, we are facing two assumptions at the moment, or we will accept only the change in one number that can happen today, and businesses will be able to continue to rely on this rate predictable by the end of 2022, or from 1 January... With absolute certainty there can be no reduced rate from 1 January for food and medicines, it is impossible. Do not lie to people here who are interested in this issue, they will not receive a reduced rate at any universe of 9 or any other percentage from 1 January 2022, that will not happen! But the proposal is for other businesses to go up to 20% rate back where it was. In fact, these two proposals are discussed or not to go up for those businesses that are already covered, the rate of 20% from 1 January, or to go up for those businesses that are covered, the rate of 1 January. There is no way the rate could spread to other sectors, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. A line from Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will use my right to reply to Mr. Ganev to clarify a few things. Here those present in the Chamber must stand clearly and understand two positions. The first position is that we can stop our vacation or our Christmas break and have another Committee on Budget and Finance in which to be dealt with in a second vote. Parliament must meet in order to have a second vote. And let the position of GERB, and of rebirth be clear, concrete and accurate: we stop our holiday...... if they want to, offer it. They're proposing it, we're voting, there's a budget committee, there's a parliament between Christmas and New Year's. That's one suggestion. The second proposal is very clear that if there is no rest, you are not about keeping the current VAT rates, but you are about the VAT rate to rise again to 20%! It is clear from GERB and clearly from rebirth that you must tell it to business and to all interested parties! Thank you. [[Single applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u51	And a line from Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u52	Mr. Chairman! Colleague Georgi Ganev, in fact the hypotheses that you described ended 15 minutes ago when we voted that we are already in phase two voting and voting. The President of the Commission read the title, read the draft text, and now we just have to vote on it. You can no longer make any additions, import and so on. Let's just vote and get this topic over with so that we can do our job as representatives responsibly. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Is there a third line to Georgi Ganev? I won't. Does Georgi Ganev want the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u54	My duplicate is as follows: if we are to change the scope of the differentiated VAT rates, it is absolutely necessary to do so with a separate bill to be written, submitted properly. To be assessed with a preliminary impact assessment as it should be for all the affected groups, which group will be affected, so that we can believe in all the arguments that the poorest country in the European Union, the poorest people will benefit. This needs proof. We can't just accept it in faith because they may not be favored. Many times, a VAT rate has been reduced and nothing has happened to final prices and they have continued to be high. We have to make sure that this time it happens that the end user pays less than the traders. Because if there's a danger of that happening, we can be charged with guess what? Lobbyism for specific business interests, not for caring for the poorest people. So we need to make sure that what we hope will happen really happens. This is done with a preliminary impact assessment, with a discussion, with a hearing of the opinions of all interested and affected groups in society. If we're gonna do this, that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u55	Thank you. Mr. Kostadinov, for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u56	Mr. Chairman, when I just heard in Mr. Svilenski's speech the same yesterday I heard it from another MP's speech, I experienced déjà vu. Ten years in the Municipal Council in Varna, where GERB dominated and continued to dominate, every time such a conversation took place, it became someone who was usually difficult to remember the name even in his group, and said: I suggest we do not politicize the conversation. It's too political. It's like the Municipal Council is some kind of branch organization of bannishers. We are in the country's most political body. If we don't have political conversations here, and if we don't put the political forwards here, where exactly, on the street? The question was asked: why hadn't we imported it? What were we bringing in? Breeding has so far tabled five bills. I don't know how much BSP brought in, I don't follow them. In this case, it doesn't matter. It is important that when we are here and when we can exercise our rights as MPs, we exercise them because behind us are voters, all the more so that regardless of who for whom and how much we have voted, in the end each of us represents the Bulgarian people. We have our proposal, we have placed it. The situation is extremely undisputed. In the end, it was said last night at what time was the Financial Committee gathered, and frankly, I do not know what time it was meeting until 9:00 p.m., 10:00 p.m. last night? This is obviously an emergency situation and we are voting on a continuation of measures that are due to extraordinary epidemiological measures. However, I can offer you a very easy solution: we cancel the exceptional epidemiological situation, because all this damage to both entrepreneurs and citizens was done by the people who manage the country. Why should we ultimately seek compensation for actions which the governments themselves do not have one, not two, not three, four governments, since last year the Bulgarian citizens? Executive power harasses and violences citizens, then here in the last days of the working year the legislative power wonders how and how to minimize the damage of the ruling fools. Is that normal? It's obviously not normal. It's obviously an emergency situation. That is why we have to act in this situation in an extraordinary way. If we have to, we won't rest. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u58	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u59	Is that a line, Mr. Popov? Mr. Svilenski for a line, then Mr. Abrovsky for a line. Mrs. Atanasova, you're speaking. I know.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, yes, from this tribune and in this hall there should be political talks and here is the place anywhere else. I said: there should be no politics, and the sooner we understand the difference between politics and political debates, political discussions, the more meaningful the work will be here in the National Assembly. Nothing else. I did not disprove you, on the contrary, your speech was political, but my colleague Ganev's was political. That's the difference. I think everyone in this room and the media understands it. Thank you. [[(Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u61	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Abrovsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, you are now part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and as such you should behave responsibly. We are now returning to Mr. Karimanski's statement from a while ago, we must decide whether to help a business, or, being politicians in the highest political authority of this country, we will not help him. If you want to offer to cancel the vacation and work, do it. Don't just hint, but what you're doing right now is irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u63	Thank you. Third line? I won't. A hole? I won't. In accordance with procedure.. Philip Popov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u64	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Indeed, there should be political discussions, debates on every single draft or decision of the National Assembly, only under certain rules. The general fairy tales, topics and proposals in the spirit and meaning of the Bill. The one we are looking at at the moment ended at his first reading. We are currently at second reading, chapter by chapter, text by text. If any of the Members of the National Assembly has anything to say about the date, regarding the title of the Bill, come to say it. Now to waste time here in general talk, please, when one of the MPs speaks outside the framework of the second reading of the Bill, to be interrupted because otherwise this debate is absolutely pointless. If there are proposals for the date 31 December 2022 not to be that date, come to say. If there is not, everything that is said at the first reading of the Bill is written here in the transcripts, it is known, it has been seen by Bulgarian citizens through the media. Therefore, I ask you to follow the order and regulations that we have all adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u65	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is the way it leads to you. In recent decades, perhaps Parliament has the lowest confidence of all institutions. This is usually explained by the behaviour of the government or the ruling coalition, but this is not true. The destruction of trust in this institution is the work of all of us. The last 15 minutes of the discussion, Mr. Chairman, was a classic example of this. They're becoming colleagues and they're talking about canceling the vacation or canceling the vacation, and you're not interrupting to tell them that the vacation is canceled. Because the argument that we don't have a vacation, that if we don't have one, we'll accept some better things for people. However, we prefer to have a vacation and not accept good things for people, which is absolutely false. First of all, the vacation is canceled and there's not a single day of vacation. Is that right? Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u67	No, you're wrong, Mr. Tsonev. We changed our vacation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u68	No, I'm not. Secondly, it is absolutely false that if we work here by 12:00 on the 31st, we will not accept anything better simply because we do not have such a procedure at least in VAT. At least in tax laws we can't open it, and there's no way if we open it and close it, because there are some deadlines between first and second readings, there are some committee meetings and so on we don't stop at them. That is to say, let's measure our fairy tales, and when we don't measure them and it's about trust in the institution, about its authority, to intervene, because that's what the media will write, I guarantee you the way they look at them, as they smile, you'll hear a title: "They didn't cancel their vacation to accept more good for the people to go to the Maldives. " - Don't be surprised if you hear it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u69	Thank you. I merely remind you that the texts we are discussing are of the following content: in § 1 the words.. 31 December 2021................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please stick to discussion on these texts and proposals. Now for a speech.. Christian Vigenin, then Desislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is not so substantial, but I didn't want to take the procedure. However, let us start from the fact that the measures we are discussing and I hope that we will adopt today and at second reading are assessed as positive, as measures that have contributed to this large part of the business concerned, to deal with the situation. This assessment is both of the relevant administrations, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, and ours, which we have commented in previous formats of the National Assembly, but in the same way it became clear yesterday after the discussion in the Committee on Budget and Finance, but it has not been mentioned here at first reading in any way that these are measures that are not effective. Our goal today is to ensure that business is predictable and that these measures are extended to 2022. This is actually the discussion today and the attempt to replace it with suggestions that almost people's representatives have rushed just because they want to rest for a few days, is not correct and this is a self-destruction of the entire parliament. I would also like to assure my colleagues from the AGE that they are part of this National Assembly and everything they do to humiliate the National Assembly, also reflects on them. By the way, we can say this from our actions in the past, which in no way helped us to stand better in the eyes of public opinion. Our common task is to ensure that Parliament raises its authority to all the groups that we are here and all the political formations. This is an effort of both the opposition and the government, because only so will we prove that each of us as MPs or as parliamentary groups really solves people's problems. I am surprised here that we are in a hurry to go on vacation from one of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Ganev, Vice-President of the National Assembly, I would like to clarify for him that it is surprising to me in general the discussion in which you are entering, because only just a moment ago the National Assembly decided to adopt the proposed bill and all the Members of the ARCHER supported this proposal. In this way, the Parliamentary Group of Revival actually contributes to the fact that this bill will also be reviewed at second reading now, and any ideas for VAT changes, other ideas that may relate to actions and measures that affect the forthcoming state budget for 2022, can be made when the procedure for adopting the 2022 budget is opened, which will take place in January. Yes, it has long since happened, but the political situation this year has led to the fact that we are unable to accept the budget for next year now, before the end of this calendar year. So, honourable Members, I propose that the remaining days by the beginning of January, when we will reunite, use them to prepare your proposals, your bills to submit and open the procedure, open the procedure for amendments to both VAT and a number of other laws that will allow you to show the profile of your group as you wish it to appear within this National Assembly. I conclude this discussion is clear in substance. The decisions are clear in substance. I don't think there's any point in prolonging it any longer. If anyone is against these measures, let them vote against it, but if it is for us to support this and not that we are in a hurry to do this right now because of us ourselves. I conclude by saying that people, business, this decision, which affects hundreds of thousands of people, must be made now in order to be predictable. We cannot let people wonder: next week will there be a quorum, will this decision be made, how to plan things from January 1st. Please end this now because of them, not because of the imaginary here Maldives and Seychelles. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u71	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u72	It is exciting to hear from BSP: "Oh, my God, I'm glad you're not atheists. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Mr. Vigenin, it is extremely exciting that you, as the other part of your group, did not hear what I was saying. Apparently blinded by replicating and figuratively speaking, jumping on an aging age, but I am explaining again and I will say it: two weeks you have wasted on the majority, discussing the ban on entering the National Assembly with a green certificate. Instead of the constitution of this Parliament to proceed to the most pressing election of a government and the formation of committees in order to start working on all these pressing problems, we have dealt with and continue to deal with banning the entry of AGE into parliament. This imposed yesterday at 9:00 p.m. that there should be a Finance Commission and that is why we need to comment on these things at the moment. And all that you are saying is precisely due to two weeks of wasted parliamentary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u73	Thank you. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman! I said it a little while ago, and I guess I'm gonna have to repeat it one more time to hear it and understand it. We are currently here discussing measures that will cost the state budget more than 1 billion. lv. That's rude. The easiest decision to be taken, but it cannot be taken by us, because with the amended Health Act of last year this is not in the competence of the National Assembly We don't spend extra money, we don't go into unnecessary trouble, we don't go into discussions. We all believe that this is the opinion that we want the good of Bulgarian citizens. The best solution is to take these extraordinary measures. And then we won't talk about who humiliates and who doesn't humiliate the National Assembly. Because more importantly, there are people who humiliate all Bulgarian citizens on a daily basis that humiliate millions of Bulgarians daily and this is no longer a day or two, it has been almost two years. It is very important that someone has humiliated the National Assembly here. Whatever we are, we're not gonna make it have a better rating than the one it used to be. Let us do what is necessary so that people can live a normal life, because Mr. Vigenin was right about both entrepreneurs and citizens need security and predictability. But this security should not be about what money we will give them.... whether 60, 40, 32, 40 BGN, and security and predictability should be in that the state in the face of the government will let them live normally, without wondering if tomorrow they will not want except the green certificate son, red, brown and whatever else you remember, because everything is possible now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Although that was a statement of substance, not a line to Mr. Vigenin. The third line is Yavor Bozhankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the spirit of speech and speech the two weeks Mr. Kostadinov spoke about, they used them, together with the DPS and GERB tried to ruin the quorum so that we would not accept committees so that we could not work to bring the holiday to stay all these measures. [[noise, lines and applause]] And he basically said clearly in his reply that he was against these measures, that is, his message to the Bulgarian business, to the people who are expecting aid, is that the revival is against these measures and they should not receive this help. [[noise, lines and cheers]] But for the two weeks that have been spent, I believe that you are not correct in your speech, because these two weeks you have tried simply to ruin the quorum and the work of the Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u77	It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin. Then there's a procedure by Mr. Atalay and Dessislava Atanasova's turn will come. Please get to the point, colleagues. The last statements had no common ground with the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I wanted to start by saying that, in fact, the speeches are not quite essentially. They are political statements in principle, yet there is some order in the National Assembly. We have an agenda, we have a point that we are discussing, and we are at second reading actually looking at a bill, and please focus on that. I take a cue just to say that, in fact, these two weeks you are talking about are the most intense and densely spent two weeks of the starting parliament, perhaps for the sake of not saying a big word, but for years, decades perhaps. So quickly created government, so quickly created committees, so quickly starting work on the substance there has never been and we have to take it into account. So to underestimate the work of this Parliament, and with that of all of us, I think it is also wrong. We have to look at things objectively. I believe that one of the reasons to get this situation is that the elections were held in mid-November. We must take into account the political time at which this Parliament has to work, and that is why this haste is taking place. But this haste has its reasons. It aims to solve the problems of many people, and the greater discussion about measures for the next budget, they are coming. It is safe for fellow Members who have ideas to submit the relevant proposals for amendments to the Emergency Act, in other legislations that are related, to pass through the committees that we created yesterday. I congratulate the Presidents on this, and wish them a successful job. And I say again, let's start working on the substance, on the agenda, not just like that in general. I understand that we have two brand new groups, two more who have not been in parliament for a long time. I hope we can take it easy to get into rhythm, because wasting parliamentary time is actually one of the big problems. Let's try to get the discussion to the point. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The procedure is Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Colleagues, let us give the President an opportunity to try to be democratic at the beginning, but not to overreact with his patience. Everything related to the bill at second reading was heard by the President of the Commission that he wants the vacation to be terminated. We've heard from our colleagues at the AGE that they want to go to the Maldives and everything related to this law. [[Applause from DPS.]] Colleagues, we heard from the BSP that the DPS is responsible. There's another expression connected to the pants. We have heard everything, Mr President, but we have heard essentially whether anyone is opposed to extending this provision in this VAT-related law. So far no one has come out to say: yes, we do not want to extend the deadline, or anyone to say: no, we want to extend by two months to have a topic to discuss. Colleagues, I think it is time that my proposal, my procedural proposal, is that we end the debates on this point and move on to a vote on the Bill, precisely and clearly. Thank you. [[Applause from..We continue the Change, DPS and ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u80	A reverse opinion? [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I know, Mrs. Atanasova, that you're recorded, but procedure is given and vote immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u81	Back!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u82	Welcome back to your position.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I know the rules pretty well. The procedure shall be voted on immediately. In this case, however, several times was mentioned the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS, and as an importer of one bill, which was also recognized in the Committee on Budget and Finance, please, Mr President, give me the opportunity to make a statement and then to end the debate if the House decides.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. We are voting on the proposal of MP Ramadan Atalay. Vote 190 MPs: for 145, against 41, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Atanasova, as we have commented, the proposal by procedure must be voted on immediately, but because I have signed you up, if you want to speak. [[(Applause and cheering by GERB-SDS: "Eee!" Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that the parliamentary practice is still being respected not only because the opposition must have its five minutes to speak on votes and a bill discussed at second reading, but because it is important to say a few things. The first is that the parliamentary group of GERB-SDS first submitted the Bill relating to measures regarding business, and in this case, I hope there is no dispute. Yes, at yesterday's meeting of the Budget Committee, we, in a constructive tone, together with the Minister of Finance, decided that the two bills will not be united, because this will extend the deadline for adopting this measure, but, on the other hand, the majority Members have accepted the proposal that our parliamentary group has tabled, this deadline and this text to be until the end of 2022, for which I thank for the constructive tone. And there's no question about it, I hope, by anyone. However, why it was necessary to take the floor not only in substance of the Bill, but also to provide you with some considerations under the procedure. It's important to hear. Apart from the fact that we once again say, not only are we importers of this bill, but we will also support the one proposed to us at second reading. Colleagues, Mr President, the procedure for adopting bills between first and second readings is as follows: a bill is tabled, a bill is discussed at first reading in committee, if it is supported, is discussed at first reading in the Chamber, if there are no objections or proposals from the parliamentary tribune expressed by MPs, it can be passed at second reading. The second reading then discusses text, chapter by chapter, section by section and so on and then the bill becomes a law. I would like to draw attention to everyone that, despite the extraordinary circumstances that we all agree, that Parliament must make a quick decision, I ask that the National Assembly never proceed in the way it is now. Why? There are several violations of the procedure, and if Parliament now accepts them, because we are in an emergency situation, not only epidemic, but the end of the year, we have to keep track of a few things in the future. Firstly, the Commission has indeed been extremely convened, without a pre-scheduled agenda, as it is under our Rules, without prior public discussion at the first meeting, as it is under our Rules. Furthermore, it did not pass 24 hours from the Commission Report, which was drawn up last night after perhaps 21:00 or 22.00 until today's meeting. Furthermore, there was no opportunity for proposals between first and second readings, although the Rules of Procedure are absolutely adamant if the MP expressed an objection or stated from the stand that he would make a proposal to be able to do so. There is no way that any member of any parliamentary group would know whether or not a colleague would propose, for example, that the deadline be not 2022 but 2023. In practice, with these decisions, we suspended the opportunity of the MPs to make proposals. I say all this because, in my opinion, the debate is not about whether the National Assembly would work, whether it would work. It's not a debate, and that's why we canceled the vacation, or didn't cancel it. Mr. Tsonev, we didn't cancel. We have a change in vacation days. This is the decision of the National Assembly and if the plenary decides, it can cancel this decision and parliament can work. Colleagues, if this debate is about principles, I ask from now on, with this exception, that we respect the principles that we have set ourselves in the Rules, which have the power of law, and that we follow the rules as we require all other citizens to respect them. Once again, GERB-SDS was the importer of this bill, we will support it at second reading. We will not create barriers to business or people who rely on thoughts about them. But I ask you to follow the rules of both you, Mr. Chairman, and your colleagues in the ruling majority. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u86	Thank you. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u87	Can I have a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u88	No, no. Mr. Tsonev, is this really necessary? Please! We are voting for the proposal made by the President of the Permanent Committee on Budget and Finance: everywhere in the Draft Law, namely in § 1, § 2 and § 3 in the Final Provisions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Isn't that right, Mr. Karimansky? We are voting on the proposal made by the President of the Commission. Vote 215 MPs: for 215, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the title of the Bill, § 1, in accordance with the amendments already voted in it; § 2 in accordance with the amendments already voted in it; the title of the section "Concluding provisions'; § 3 in accordance with the amendments already voted in it; and § 4. Vote 214 MPs: for 214, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been passed. [[Applause from "We continue the Change", "BSP for Bulgaria", INN and SG.]] We don't have a chance to explain the negative vote. Moving on to point two: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVAL ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURE AND TRANSFERS UNDER THE STATE BUDGET FOR 2021 ON THE ACCOUNT OF THE REPAYMENT OF THE BUDGET FOR 2021 A report from the Budget and Finance Committee on the draft decision has been submitted. Mr. Karimansky, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision approving additional expenditure and transfers under the State budget for 2021 at the expense of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, No 47-102-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2021. At an extraordinary meeting held on 22 December 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that decision. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Asen Vassilev The decision was presented by Minister Vassilev. It is offered on the basis of art. 26, para. 10 of the Public Finance Act The National Assembly shall approve additional expenditure and transfers under the state budget for 2021 at the expense of the reexecution of the tax revenue under the state budget for 2021. The proposal is based on an assessment of the current implementation of the state budget tax revenue based on the actual implementation of the month of November and the December forecast, and aims to secure the continuation of the program for compensation of non-bit final customers of electricity, as well as a measure to support pensioners in the context of an exceptional epidemic situation related to the spread of COVID-19 in Bulgaria. The analysis of the implementation of the parameters of tax revenue compared to the updated State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 outlines a re-execution of around 1200 million. lv. The reasons for this are, on the one hand, the improvement in a large part of the macroeconomic indicators in the current macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance compared to the forecasts when preparing the state budget update and on the other, the efforts of revenue administrations to increase revenue collection and fight tax crimes, smuggling, undeclared incomes and others. The better results are also due to the active actions taken by the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency to address the grey economy and improve tax collection, the measures put in place to limit the negative effects of the COVID-19 crisis, as well as the measures taken by the government and the thematic control campaigns carried out by the revenue authorities. The draft decision proposes that the National Assembly approve under the state social security budget for 2021 funds of up to 750 million. lv. on the account of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, the approval of an additional transfer from the State budget for 2021 for State social security is to pay an additional amount to pensions for the months from January to June 2022, including support for pensioners in relation to the ongoing epidemic situation related to the spread of COVID-19 and with a view to limiting the consequences of COVID-19. The additional monthly amount to the pension is 60 BGN. and will be paid to all pensioners regardless of the amount of pension received. In addition, additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2021 of up to 450 million is proposed. lv. for compensation for the high prices of electricity and natural gas for end-users for the first quarter of 2022 at the expense of over-execution of tax revenue in 2021 After the discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 15 votes for the vote, without the vote against the draft decision and 6 votes abstention. On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision approving additional expenditure and transfers under the State budget for 2021 at the expense of the reexecution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, No 47-102-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2021. I'd like to read the Project Decision, too, so that we can...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u90	Yeah, I was gonna propose to you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u91	Thank you. Project! DECISION approving additional expenditure and transfers under the State budget for 2021 at the expense of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 26, para. 10 of the Public Finance Act HAS DECIDED 1. On the basis of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, it approves an additional transfer from the State budget under the State social security budget for 2021 of up to 750 million. lv. for additional amounts to the pension or the sum of pensions together with the supplements and compensations to each pensioner of BGN 60. monthly with effect from 1 January 2022 2. On the basis of the re-execution of tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, it approves additional expenditure under the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2021 amounting to up to 450 million. lv. for compensation for the high prices of electricity and natural gas for end-users for the first quarter of 2022
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. I'm opening the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! However, the point is important enough and an importer of the Draft Decision is the Council of Ministers. I suppose that due to the termination of the last point there was not enough time, but to wait for the start of the debates essentially until a representative of the Council of Ministers came, most likely the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance as an importer, to present the opinion of an importer, to introduce us and to participate in the debates. I think it would be constructive for everyone. So, my procedure is in that regard. If you did not invite him, he would probably come because his request was that at all points he would attend the National Assembly, to wait for the debates until a representative of the Council of Ministers arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u94	Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess at 11.35. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u95	Colleagues, we are continuing on item two of the agenda for today. Please, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Mr. Asen Vassilev, present the draft decision to approve additional costs and transfers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We present a decision by the National Assembly: Project! DECISION approving additional expenditure and transfers under the State budget for 2021 at the expense of the re-execution of tax revenue for 2021 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 26, para. 10 of the Public Finance Act HAS DECIDED 1. On the basis of the re-execution of the tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, it approves an additional transfer from the State budget under the State social security budget for 2021 of up to 750 million. lv. for additional amounts to the pension or the sum of pensions together with the supplements and compensations to each pensioner of BGN 60. monthly with effect from 1 January 2022 2. On the basis of the re-execution of tax revenue under the State budget for 2021, it approves additional expenditure under the budget of the Ministry of Energy for 2021 amounting to up to 450 million. lv. for compensation for the high prices of electricity and natural gas for end-users in the first quarter of 2022 The decision was adopted by the Forty-Seventh National Assembly of......................................... and is sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly............................................................................................................... This is the Project for a solution and perhaps I could say a few words why we are proposing this solution. As you know, this year there were additional revenues that were reassigned with the budget update. We are talking about two and a half billion leva, which we adopted at the end of the previous National Assembly. The NRA and customs continued to work partly because of inflation, partly because of increased collection. At the moment, we have additional revenue, which is at least a billion and two hundred million. If this decision is not adopted, these additional revenues will go directly to reduce the deficit. With this decision of the National Assembly, we propose that these revenues be distributed and help pensioners and Bulgarian enterprises at this difficult time. As we all know, the price of electricity is rising and remains high throughout Europe and there is a need for companies to be supported. The supplement of 60 leva. plus the increase in pensions, which enters from 25 December, the minimum pension and all pensions through the internship ratio, plus those 60 levs, will ensure that we will not have any pensioner below the poverty line and that pensioners will not receive less money than the funds they are currently receiving. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Before I open the discussion on this item on the agenda, I would like to make the following procedural proposal: A letter dated today from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria was received in the National Assembly, which submitted a draft decision amending the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 106 of 15 December 2021) , and Draft Decision amending the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 106 of 15 December 2021) . In the light of the foregoing, Article 3 (1) (c) of the basic Regulation provides that: 47, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the National Assembly's Work Programme for today's plenary session the following additional item: "Project of a Decision amending the National Assembly's Decision on the adoption of a structure of the Council of Ministers and Draft of a Decision amending the National Assembly's decision on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. I suggest that this point be inserted into the Programme immediately after this. [[Reply from the MP Hristo Gazhev.]] Yeah, that's right. Mr. Gajev has already met the Project. The project will be distributed. Thank you. Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 153 MPs: 141, against 10, abstention 2. Thank you. This item on the agenda becomes the third item today. I ask the Quaestors to distribute the projects to the MPs so that they can get acquainted with the two projects. I am opening a discussion on the draft decision presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Asen Vassilev and the report presented before the break by Mr. Karimanski Chairman of the Permanent Budget and Finance Commission. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Here you go, Mr. Ganev. Mr. Ademov, I'm also writing him down for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u98	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, my question is as follows: in the project which we are about to vote and approve, for pensioners are envisaged 60 BGN, are there other allowances of other feathers provided, or this amount, which is currently received by the pensioners - I think it was 120 BGN - will be reduced by these.? Do you think there are other amounts provided for elsewhere?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u99	Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u100	Thanks for asking. What comes into force, which was adopted by the previous parliament with the update of the budget of 25 December, the minimum pension of 300 BGN. raise to BGN 370, the internship rate is raised from 1.2 to 1.35 and the maximum pension of BGN 1440. raises to BGN 1500. So under the legislation already adopted, we have an indexation, I would say, an update of pensions and a recalculation that takes effect from 1 January. So there will be no pensioners who receive less money than the funds they receive at the moment, plus a hundred and twenty leva supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Minister, let us understand that our attention is now presented a draft decision on the approval of additional expenditure and transfers under the state budget for 2021 at the expense of the overexecution of tax revenues. We are talking about additional transfers to the Ministry of Energy and to the budget of state social security. That is what this draft decision is about. Let me begin by saying that, in the Committee on Budget and Finance, and here in plenary, the Parliamentary Group of The budgetary procedure, which actually uses the Ministry of Finance, is linked to a financial-legal form that enables the storage of foreign money. Because this is not money, in this case before the Decision Project, neither the Ministry of Energy nor the budget of state social security, and this is money that is transferred from the state budget to the budget of the Ministry of Energy and to the budget of state social security. However, they need to be collected or transferred to a raising additional account that will accumulate up to 750 million and up to 450 million in the institutions concerned. This is done because in the Public Finance Act, in its article. 26, para. 10 This financial procedure shall be permitted. Otherwise, the legitimate mechanism and way is completely different "This must pass through the budgets of the state and the budget of state social security, respectively. And since there is no technological time, the Ministry of Finance has taken this way so that we can support the pensioners. Because it is very often about what is actually being done with these changes and with the update, and with this project for a solution, very often the questions are asked: what happened to those 50 levs, what happened to the 120 levs, what will happen now to the 60 levs, what will happen to the 75 levs, which the Prime Minister offers for those who will be vaccinated? To make it clear, I'm going to try to say what has actually been adopted so far? Shortly ago, the Minister of Finance said that from December 25 the minimum pension for internship and age of 300 BGN. It's BGN 370. All we're talking about here is what the laws say, not what we've offered as an additional measure. The additional model measure of 120 BGN. was beyond what was said in the legislation by the end of December 2021. From 25 December the minimum pension for internship and age was from 300 to 370 BGN. I'm repeating again, no Kovid supplement. What's going on from there? All pensions of nearly two million, from December 25, are updated and not revalued because recalculation is another term of social security. Recalculation is made on the basis of a new insurance income. Here we are talking about a new coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35 each year internship, that is, the increase in the amount of pensions will go through the insurance contribution, which is a good approach. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for years have proposed this measure by increasing the rate for the year internship. Unfortunately, this measure has not been adopted so far. And now, the maximum pension, the minister of finance just said it was from BGN 1440. At 1500 leva. Once again, without the extra coat supplement. This increase in the ratio, said the actuaries of the National Insurance Institute, will lead to an average of not talking about every pension, an increase in the amount of pensions on average by 64 BGN. It's like, uh, £64. We add these additional 60 BGN, which is currently the issue... by June, the expectations are that there will be no amount of pension that is lower than the pension that has been received so far with the Kovid supplement, with the 64 BGN. It's expected on average. There may be some case of exception, but this is individual for each pension. From then on, there will be no pension below the poverty line. With that 60 leva. plus BGN 370. They become BGN 430, which is more than BGN 413. I do not know if it has become clear, but I have deliberately repeated all this in order to make it clear not only to the MPs, but to all Bulgarian citizens who are vitally interested in this topic what will happen to the size of pensions. Of course, I repeat, this measure is force majeure, in times of deficit, in conditions in which we need to make a decision quickly so that Bulgarian pensioners can receive the amount they have received so far and slightly above that for some of the groups. This legislative technique, again, is legally enshrined in the Public Finance Act. However, I do not think that in conditions where we will have time, in conditions where we will adopt the budget for next year, this procedure will be possible. We even expect it to change in this part of the Public Finance Act so that there will not be such an opportunity from now on. This is extremely important. Why is it important? Because so far we have spoken that the National Assembly, what it must adopt, are the decisions relating to the surplus. In practice, the Council of Ministers is currently enabling the National Assembly, but it does not allow for a change of these parameters, that is, money is so... that is what you can have. From then on, there may be a proposal for this 60 leva. This is the work of the National Assembly, these 60 leva. It's not 60 BGN, it's 120 BGN. For example, within this budget for three months, to be 30 BGN. by the end of the year and whatever options you come up with, any suggestions may be available. In practice, the Council of Ministers, coming out of that old understanding that the SUV and the Council of Ministers are taking decisions by decree, the National Assembly is still deciding in some framework we decide, but within the framework of what is allowed. I say all this because if we want to restore parliamentaryism in Bulgaria, if we want the dependence of the Council of Ministers to be in favor of the National Assembly, because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, we must follow these rules. If we do not comply with the rules laid down in the Constitution, which are laid down in the respective laws, the responsibility for trust in the National Assembly will be ours and ours alone. I said all this in the hope that all colleagues will support this decision because it is in the interest of the Bulgarian pensioners and in practice continues what we of the DPS proposed at the end of the last parliament with an update of the budget of state social security. Otherwise, after the decision of the National Assembly, the right of the Council of Ministers is to order whether by any additional act, so that from 7 November the National Insurance Institute can pay the pensions for January, because only with this decision will the money be in the account. The decision is clear, but I am not convinced that only by this act will it be possible for the National Insurance Institute to pay this increased amount of pensions. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My statement is in point. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. to compensate business in the first quarter of next year. We had a debate with you at the Budget Committee last night nine hours ago, but it is still appropriate for the plenary to know what these are both of you and of our parliamentary group. In short, you explained to us that this 450 million. lv. there will be an additional amount, that for December funds will be paid 110 BGN. in megawatt hours, i.e. October, November, compensation will be continued in December as well. Our thesis then and now is that these funds are extremely insufficient because if at 300 leva. electricity price, 110 leva. It was a normal compensation, at £600. Or 500 BGN. for December is not. It is not normal compensation for the first three months of next year when the price of electricity is expected to be above 700 BGN. Of the billion and a half planned in your programme with a number of restrictive conditions, in fact two is not a number, to be honest one is that the compensation cannot exceed 30% of the electricity price. Thus, if the electricity is 700 BGN, the compensation can not be more than 210 BGN. The second condition is that the difference is compensated not from the estimated market price in the decision of the regulator So of that billion and a half, except in your own words, 350 million. lv. For the ERPs and ESOs, except for 200 million. lv. compensation for gas users, for the electricity business, remains only 930 million. lv. These 930 million, if we divide them into almost six terawatt hours, which will be consumed by the business in the first three months of next year, it is estimated that this compensation is about 150 BGN, i.e. 150 BGN. compensation at 700 leva. The price of electricity will not save the business in Bulgaria. Our position is that this compensation should be twice as much, at least twice as much. That is why we tabled a draft decision which I asked yesterday to be examined by the plenary, but the President assessed Our proposal was what business offers. In fact, all employers' organizations in Bulgaria offer a solution which we believe is correct and it is to be compensated, i.e. the state to pay 75% of the increase in the price of electricity. The electricity according to the Regulator should be 119 BGN, it is 500 or 600, or 700. That is to say, the difference between what electricity really costs and what the Regulator intended to cover is 75% of the state. In your plans this percentage is between 30 and 37.5% depending on what the price of electricity is. I mean, I repeat, this is extremely insufficient. I understand it's a little out of today's debate, but the subject is important enough to get your attention. There will indeed be bankruptcys and they are already happening if adequate compensation is not given for the increase in the price of electricity. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u105	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a line, Mr. Karimansky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a very short line. Indeed, yesterday we discussed in the Budget Committee what Mr. Dobrev shared with you from the stands. However, I must say this: the mechanism for allocating these funds we have no way and we have not discussed it. The mechanism is yet to be discussed, it will be proposed, I suppose, by the Ministry of Energy of our attention, we will be familiar with it, and as well as Mr. Dobrev and Minister Vassilev pointed out in their speeches, the funds are not limited for next year until this amount has already been presented to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Any other lines? Mr. Ganev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u108	I also confirm what Mr. Karimanski said about the compensation technology, but ultimately it is important what amount we reschedule. If the amount we are talking about right now, or rather, the amount of megawatt remains, whatever redistribution we do will not happen. However, there is something else in this redistribution scheme, which, as we understand, will be imported at least to get acquainted and look at it, but we are seeing something that is also important, Mr. Dobrev. There are businesses that have already calculated and raised their prices because of colossally high electricity prices. The latest example is the telecoms are hugely raising, they have simply decided that they are raising the price because of the increased costs, probably because of the price of electricity. And here we come to the question of the Ministry of Finance having this thing in mind. We at ARGUING believe that there should be a really thorough analysis of which of the sectors has a real need to receive much greater help than what is currently mentioned in order to prevent the bankruptcy and the rise of unemployment. There are sectors in which support can be undertaken, but there are sectors where production is no longer so energy-intensive and their costs are not that large, and they have calculated their increased costs. Indeed, this is a very serious process, but in general, the amount that is envisaged, we believe is small. It is in these difficult times that we must support our business with as much as possible, because if we do not support the business, we will fill even more work desks, we will bring and we will go to the spiral, which we will hardly be able to go out with painlessly. Indeed, these are serious debates that are not subject to a delay in time and discussions in any cabinet. The problems are pressing and we need to see the distribution as soon as possible, as well as the size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u109	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u110	Mr. Karimansky, you must have misunderstood me. I said that the 450 million is only part of next year's amount. But I also say, and I will repeat it again, that a billion and a half, as much as the total amount of compensation announced by the government, is insufficient. Because of that billion and a half, only 920 million. lv. They'll get to the business to compensate for the high price of electricity. That 920 million. BGN, divided into about three billion, three teravat hours, three million megawatts of consumption, means that the business will receive compensation of about 150 BGN. That compensation, if that's the case... [[Heckling]] No, they'll actually get the same thing in different months, but they'll get all 140 or 160 or 120 BGN, depending on what the price of electricity is. So here's what we need to figure out one more time. And there's no need for us to record whether it's going to be a billion and a half, or it's going to be three billion, or it's going to be four billion if we adopt a mechanism to make up for 75% of the difference. Then we will not worry whether the price will be 700 BGN, or in favorable circumstances the price will be 300 BGN. After all, we will cover a difference of 75%. Mr. Ganev, my only line to you is not really a replica. I agree with you that the main reason for the increased prices of all products is the price of electricity. However, I fear that these prices will continue to grow because today's prices include electricity around 300 BGN, which was electricity in November and early December. For January it is expected to be 700 and over 700 BGN. Once again, there is perhaps a greater appreciation of all prices, that is, there will be either bankruptcy or there will be high prices, and there will most likely be both of them, both of them, and high prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u111	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I have written speeches by Denitsa Sacheva, Rumen Gechev, Georgi Ganev, Temenuzhka Petkova and Iskra Mihaylova. Here you go, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Firstly, I would also like to announce on behalf of our parliamentary group that in terms of the decision concerning the payment of additional amounts to pensions, our group will support this because this continues in practice the policy which was introduced by the government of Boyko Borisov, namely an addition of 50 BGN. for the Bulgarian pensioners. I have repeatedly explained in my capacity as Minister of Labour and Social Policy why this supplement was chosen from 50 BGN. Then we decided on it because the monthly average cost of a pensioner for medicines according to data from the National Statistical Institute is about BGN 54. and because it was introduced as an additional standard measure, so we chose this amount of 50 BGN. At the moment, I would like to ask you why and how these 60 levs were calculated. Is it mechanical, simply because of BGN 64? will be the average increase for pensions, or there are any other estimates that you have taken into account. However, let us note that when we talk about BGN 64. On average, this means that there will be pensions that will increase by 30 BGN. or 40 BGN, let's say not all pensions will increase by 64 BGN, i.e. there will be pensioners who will receive less than 120 BGN. And that should be made clear. We have also repeatedly discussed the need to resolve the issue of the poverty of Bulgarian pensioners and those of them who live below the poverty line. We talked about them being supported through the social assistance system. Since you once again stressed that there will be no Bulgarian pensioners under the line of poverty - something that I also think is not very correct because we have social pensions - we have disability pensions - they are lower than BGN 370, which will be the minimum pension, does this mean that you are giving up your plans for this social assistance to solve the problems of the poverty of Bulgarian pensioners. Of course, my last question to you is: all the good finance ministers think with longer horizons from at least 3 to 5 years, what are you going to do in June when the add-on of 60 BGN will expire, because you will probably then offer us again to increase this supplement? Today we made a decision on the VAT rate by the end of 2022. Isn't it a good decision to talk about similar types of decisions for Bulgarian pensioners? 60 BGN. supplement until 31 December 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Mr. Vassilev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u114	Thanks for the questions, Mrs. Sacheva. The 60 levs are calculated to ensure that we go over the poverty line, which, as you know, is BGN 413. With a minimum pension of BGN 370. this gives us the opportunity to safely go over the poverty line, that is, there could be no less than that. In addition, it is in line with the National Assembly decision. As it raises the maximum pension of BGN 1440. 1500 BGN to keep the pensions of these people from falling, there must be 60 BGN. supplement so that they continue to receive what they receive at the moment. So certainly these 60 leva. will guarantee pensioners that they really get as much as they have received at the moment. If there are pensions that increase by less, they will either way be increased by 70 BGN to reach the minimum pension of 370 BGN. The higher pensions, applying the internship rate, are now over BGN 60, so we do not expect that there will be pensioners who will receive less money. As for why this is done by June as a coveted supplement because based on the coalition talks and coalition agreement that we signed, by June there must be new legislation in which a new pension insurance model is set up that is sustainable over time. It is also envisaged that at the end of June an update of the budget will be tabled where this new model will be set up, plus laying down a number of other policies that the relevant ministries can work out. So this is in line with both planning and financial and legislative, which is enshrined in the coalition agreement. In principle, we believe that this is sustainable in time. You remember that we had this debate during the update, how much will it cost 2022, how much will it cost 2023 this raising the coefficient from 1.2 to 1.35 both of the minimum and of the maximum pension, then I assured you that there will be enough fiscal space in these budgets. This fiscal space exists so that this commitment can be safely made without violating the financial parameters and stability of the financial system in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Rumen Gechev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In a nutshell! What we are doing today is: The National Assembly gives for the first time an agreement of ten or twelve years to distribute budget surpluses in a way that confirms the National Assembly. This is certainly a positive step, and we are sure that this will continue for the future as well. Secondly, these are the possible funds that at this stage can separate the government from the government. lv. to assist Bulgarian companies on the unregulated market, and this amount, if necessary, may be increased after the end of March if prices change. So we must support this proposal of the government, as it is in the interest of all Bulgarian companies. Thirdly, however, the problem is the level of prices. Since someone can hardly say supposes of various international institutions how prices will move, but we must order the relevant state authorities very carefully to follow the processes of the so-called free market for electricity, as it was designed to give other results. Because, honourable Members, we can increase the aid from the budget, but one question arises: they go well to the Bulgarian companies, only from the Bulgarian companies part of these funds, and a significant part of them, go to the Bulgarian speculators on the market. Therefore, we must take measures to stop as quickly as possible the pouring of money from the Bulgarian people, from the budget, into the pocket of speculators. Yes, it is true that prices are growing throughout Europe. On electricity specifically this is another topic, there is a very big difference between prices in a large market of the United States and Europe, the reasons are different, but today we will not comment on these differences. But look at this. It has been proclaimed that by making the liberalized electricity market with increased competition, what do children teach........................................the prices should decrease? They did not just decrease in Bulgaria, but increased in many times. For what reason, honourable Members? Bulgaria relies on the temes of its own coal. If half of the electricity and more is produced by our tecs, where are the coals from? Lignite basins down in Maritsa East 1, 2 and 3, Bobovdolski, we practically have minimal imports of coal. What has changed in the price of coal and what are electricity producers billing? Secondly, have the repeatable sources of the sun and water increased? Is there such a process? Because we haven't noticed! There's no such thing as a trial. Then why are prices rising? The explanation is: because exports have increased. Let's say it's about 20% of the capacity, it's used for export, and what does it come out of? That Bulgaria is feeding the European market! Isn't this competition also supposed to cut prices? Because we can pour even more money from the budget, but it can be in favor of whom, as I said to speculators or to maintain the balance sheets, albeit small Bulgaria, in Europe! Not that Bulgaria will maintain the balance sheets, but many countries like Bulgaria do. So this is about taking concrete measures. The stock market, for example! Where is this thing on the same stock exchange the same buyer to make eight or ten requests without any financial guarantees? The deposit, as they say, to give up eight or nine and choose the most favorable one? This is on the Bulgarian market! Where is there a few financial sharks to buy huge amounts of electricity and then to protect the skins of Bulgarian small and medium-sized companies? Is that right, fellow Members? This is where the state must enter, too. I use the case to instruct the government in a short time to review the Rules on which the Bulgarian electricity market operates. Because we had one discussion at the last short-term parliament on this auction and it turned out, honourable Members, to my question: do they have estimates by making the regulations on the exchange, what will the effects be? The answer was that they didn't have readouts. I asked the KEWRC do they have any estimates on how the prices of electricity and the quantities of purchase and sales will change, any predictions? The answer was that they had no predictions. That's why it's absolutely ridiculous to look at the KEWRC forecasts. Where were they looking in the ceiling, what forecasts, what 110 leva, what electricity?! So the state authorities of Bulgaria have not done their job before the last months and now we, by confirming these costs of the government in favour of the Bulgarian business, because we have no way of not supporting it, at the same time we have to say that the Bulgarian state is obliged the relevant authorities to enter the market, to establish the violation of the rules of competition, because once again I would like to say: in no way have the costs of the Bulgarian electricity producers changed. I've missed the nuclear power plant, Belene, I'm sorry, it has to be finished. However, in? Kozloduy and the children also know that the charging of the plant with nuclear fuel boxes is once a year, the prices have not changed. In other words, there must be full control over the stock exchange, over the costs of the producers, in order not to impose the more we increase the help of the business, the more they will pressure speculators to collect the money that belongs to the Bulgarian people. So: yes to the proposal, it must be supported, and a request to the government to enter and perform its functions in order to minimize the possibility of speculative electricity prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. A line to Mr. Gechev? Here's a line, Mr. Ganev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u118	Mr. Gechev, I am extremely happy to hear what you just said, even more so now the BSP is not in opposition. On the contrary, BSP manages and these things you said, I expect your group or, in particular, you will receive our support. No, it's more than that! We'll stand by you and we'll be happy to have this thing be government policy. At this stage, however, I have a deep doubt that your group as a whole, not you personally, and your other partners will stand up to what you said. Because this will affect and reach where no one dares to do both now and 12 years GERB. But I welcome this, and I would really like it to be introduced as soon as possible after the New Year and for the government in the face of the finance minister to take this thing and implement it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u119	Thank you. Any other lines to Mr. Gechev? I won't. Mr. Gechev, would you like a duplicate? No. Georgi Ganev is next on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have to say on behalf of our group that we will support this draft decision. After this announcement, I would like to make some important details, in our opinion. Mr. Ademov has affected most of them, I will not go through his very clear explanation of what is happening, at least in the pension part. But what's important, Professor Gechev said it. It is very good that such a decision goes through parliament. One of our unaccepted practices was to go entirely through the executive when there is overrun revenue, the distribution of this overrun is good to go through parliament. I remember, I guess Professor Gechev meant the case with Mr. Oresharski as Finance Minister, I think it was in 2008. Congratulations, we hope to continue! Second of all, it's good practice! He's got a little extra personality. On the one hand, we have an overexecution. It always settles at the end of the year. On the other side, we have December 31st, which always hangs like a sword of Damocles on everything. In this case, there is this mechanism, which Mr. Ananiev, as I recall, managed to develop with these accounts the foreign funds that the next year can be used. When they pass through parliament, it is actually a poor practice of overexecution. Of course, it is my wish that you be a finance minister for many years and, accordingly, keep these amounts in a smaller way, if possible, an amount around this 1% of GDP may be decent, but for larger amounts, it is good not to have extras. That is why my desire and dream is, if we can, these Finally, just to explain that what we are making with this decision is actually a set aside in accounts that will be able to be used next year by the NSI, and a set aside in an account that will be able to be used next year under the Energy Ministry, I suppose. How exactly the Energy Ministry will deal with business about this compensation mechanism and is really an important issue. Mr. Dobrev's expertise, of course, is absolutely unmistakable in this regard, but we hope that there will be other financial sources. These 450 are just one support, and that's as much as this year's overexecution can give. Something does not work under the rules this Bulgarian electricity exchange and it is nice to see a strategy how and where this will change, because it is not a very good idea for the Bulgarian taxpayer to compensate for some high prices of electricity and to find that a large part of this money goes to some people who behave rather opportunistically than useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ganev. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ganev, several speeches have mentioned the rules for trading on the energy market. I would just like to share that the last days after the adoption of the budget, before the completion of the first office, we had a number of meetings with traders, with the KEWRC, with large consumers of electricity and we agreed that adjustments should be made to the rules for trading on the exchange, as well as adjustments to certain regulations of the KEWRC, which are related to contracts and which electricity traders conclude with end-users, where limit prices and a number of other good practices should be set. The KEWRC then expressed readiness to make changes to the regulations. In their calculation, this would have taken between two and three weeks with public discussions. Unfortunately, three months later, we are still waiting for these changes. Since the government cannot only make these adjustments, and they are entirely within the prerogative of the regulator, which is the KEWRC, my call to the National Assembly is in the shortest possible time to elect a composition of the KEWRC, which has not expired in order for the government to have a partner with whom it can work. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change", ICN, DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. The next statement is by Temenuzhka Petkova and the other recorded statements are in the following order: Iskra Mihaylova, Alexander Ivanov, Manol Genov, Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! My speech relates to point two of the proposals Draft decision, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, related to the development of the compensatory mechanism and the support of the Bulgarian business in relation to the high prices of electricity. As has already become clear, on 21 December, the Political Party GERB and our coalition partners from the Union of Democratic Forces submitted a draft decision which is also related to this topic. The draft decision provides for the development of a compensatory mechanism by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, respectively, which is a compensatory mechanism to cover the costs that the Bulgarian business makes for the high costs of the price of electricity at the moment. You all know very well that this price is constantly growing, and within the last few days and in certain hours it has reached 1000 BGN. Something that is really detrimental to the Bulgarian business. This will inevitably lead to bankruptcy, to the closure of jobs if the state does not intervene and is not in its place. I am glad that from this overexecution of the revenues for 2021 you have allocated resources to support the Bulgarian business related to the price of electricity. What I would like to address as a question to you is linked to the compensation mechanism itself. In our proposal we have very clearly indicated how this compensation should be done and we firmly believe that it should be 75% of the difference between the reference market price that the KEWRC has set and the real stock prices. This opinion was not made on our decision, but is due to the discussions with the Bulgarian business, and this is the opinion of the Bulgarian business. I think that in order to be as useful to our business in this difficult situation, the measure must be really effective, that is, we need to cover a maximum of the costs of the high price of electricity so that we can be really useful to the Bulgarian business. Since it was announced by the Minister of Energy that the mechanism that the government will propose represents 75% of the difference between the price that the KEWRC has set as a reference market price and the stock price, but not more than 30%, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in practice, this means that the real support of the business will be by no more than 30 So our appeal and my appeal to you is to really rethink the mechanism for compensation of the Bulgarian business and give the optimal compensation, which will be timely and will be effective as a measure. My other question relates to a continuation of yesterday's conversation within the Budget Committee. I asked you if we have an estimate that is related to the spending of this 450 million for the Bulgarian business, and you explained that such an estimate is not yet available and you expect the Ministry of Energy to provide it today. If you already have this data, I would be grateful to hear: how exactly will this 450 million be distributed and what range of companies and companies will be able to benefit from this support if you have this information? I urge you to reconsider the compensation mechanism and make it really 75% and not 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova, for the two questions. Regarding the first question, I propose that we really make a separate debate on the mechanism. This is an extremely important topic, which, in today's debate, without the presence of the energy minister and so on, will simply not be complete. We have also heard this appeal of business, and the only thing I want to pay attention to is that this scheme must still be notified in Brussels and pass through Brussels, which means that there is no way to implement this scheme for December unless we delay the aid to the extent that it does not become aid. As you know, there is an easy way to go through Brussels and a very difficult, slow and complicated way to go through Brussels. The easy way is if we remain in the 30% restrictions, which are also European policy, which means that much faster compensation can be increased. This is subject to talks with Brussels, and that is why the Energy Ministry is actually making preliminary drillings to see what for how long can be approved, as this constitutes State aid. The range is for all consumers who use a stock price for electricity plus electricity distribution companies who have to buy the electricity for losses along the route. From now on, I cannot tell you exactly how the 450 million are distributed, because today I have not reached the Ministry, but I am at meetings in the Council of Ministers, now I am in the National Assembly. Life and health, when I get to the Ministry, I'll see what we've got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u127	Thank you. A line to Mrs. Petkova? Okay. You have the floor, Mr. Sabrutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u128	I turn to the proposal to continue the discussion on the creation of a specific mechanism in the Committee on Energy and at expert level, where we will be able to look at all the proposals, we will be able to talk to the Minister of Energy, with the KEWRC, with the stakeholders as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u129	Thank you. Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, from the Political Party GERB-SDZ we are ready as soon as you decide that we should hold a meeting of the Energy Committee, we will be there. So we expect this to happen very soon, because the Bulgarian business really needs this support and the faster and more effective we work, the more useful we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u131	Thank you. Iskra Mihailova has the floor now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, Vice-Presidents, colleagues! Mr. Vassilev, to you as we sit here, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria came out and made a statement that financial support of BGN 75 will be given. to pensioners who will be vaccinated with a third dose. My first question is: Are you familiar with, have you discussed this policy, do you have any details about it, as it was actually said that this will concern pensioners who currently have a third dose? You probably have a specific number on which line of budget this subsidy will come from. Is this subsidy different from those 60 BGN, which we comment today as support, i.e. for non-vaccinated patients to be 60 BGN, for vaccinated patients to be 75 BGN, or for all of them 60 BGN, for those vaccinated with a third dose 75 BGN. on top, and in fact how many pensioners will be at the moment, who will remain injured by the fact that they have made their choice and used this right not to be vaccinated, and will not receive this support for which we may actually all agree that every Bulgarian pensioner has? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u133	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the discussion is on the draft decision. You, Mr. Minister, would you like the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u134	Those 60 BGN, which are discussed with the current decision, reach all pensioners - whether they have been vaccinated or not. Today's discussion is the answer. If you want an additional discussion on vaccines, let's do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! In today's decision, which we are debating, we have indeed shared our principled support and, naturally, considerations in the technique and in the payment methodology. Mr. President, please allow me to propose a separate voting procedure because, on the first part of the decision, we will vote for, and in the second, we will abstain, because we believe that our draft decision on compensation for business is twice as large as the proposed by the Council of Ministers and we will therefore abstain on it. So, the procedure, please, will be for a split vote. However, in today's debate, colleagues, I will take the opportunity that the Deputy Prime Minister is here. It is indeed an important issue, which concerns government and management decisions, and also the whole society - raising the immunization of the population. Without trying to overexpose the debate, it is really important that this thing, which has been noted by the colleague, the non-negotiable one, and I will very briefly touch on the issue of the surplus, which is expected to be distributed today with this decision of parliament. It is extremely important to emphasise what the Prime Minister said, and you, as finance minister and deputy finance prime minister, have certainly discussed with him the possibility of the 2022 budget. However, as far as we can make informed decisions, there is no budget presented for 2022 at the moment. It is also extremely important to understand that we support any opportunity to increase the voluntary immunization of the population, and whether the support is the best as an example, we can argue on the subject, and there may be other considerations and proposals. We also see the following as a proposal, we can think about it, but obviously you will not decide today to include it in this draft decision. Indeed, pensioners are one of the most affected groups in the society of the virus and because of many factors, but think about it, and we can think about such a solution. If there is going to be such financial incentives, why not look at these financial incentives precisely at working people? Much of the working people are forced, such is the health requirement, such is the decision of the Council of Ministers and of the Health Ministry. It is the Minister of Health, insofar as your Minister of Health has not canceled this decision, a green certificate is required. If there will be such incentives, we also think that for such incentives we should consider proposing again on a voluntary basis, but also for the working Bulgarian citizens. Because, let's face it, if the economy stops working, there will be no social payments for our pensioners and these revenues, extra funds in transfers, will not be made. That is why I think that this debate should come very soon because of, again, I stress, the fact that there is no proposed draft budget for 2022. For me, especially as a member of the Budget Committee, I think that a large part of my colleagues will agree with me, is the worrying fact that messages are being heard, perhaps here too it is nice for you to say as a finance minister, Deputy Prime Minister, there was an indication for March 2022 to be considered the budget in the National Assembly. I think it's too late. We would like to stress once again that the GERB-SDS Group calls you, we also want as opposition, and as people who are thinking about financial health and the state, to examine it as soon as possible. So if you answer me, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u137	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u138	Thank you. A direct answer to the question is the intention of the Ministry of Finance to submit a draft budget by the end of January, from there it is in the hands of the National Assembly how quickly this budget will be examined and adopted. So at some point, we hope to have a new approved budget. Yeah, that's the time frame for the budget. As far as vaccination is concerned. Again, it would be good to do a separate hearing there, where to discuss all these questions, what is effective, what is not effective. At the moment, the financial resources for what the Prime Minister has announced, in fact, a small part of this resource, are provided for in the budget update, where, you know, we have placed an amount to be made available for vaccinations, as well as an additional amount under the Ministry of Health. [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yeah, the previous update that happened September month, so that money has it in the budget. They're just being activated right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Manol Genov is fine. Ramadan Atalay then, Vladislav Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u140	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I, Minister, would like to draw attention to compensation. We give the business all sales companies, gave 140, gave 160 BGN. of megawatt, as formulated and as expected, but I would like to draw your attention to a need for special compensation. As a result of the dynamics of summer prices so far, water companies have been in extremely difficult condition. With the moratorium we voted on, what happened? We have frozen the prices at which they would eventually sell this service if their business plans were approved. The KEWRC, worn out all summer in its own lethargy of an independent body, did nothing in terms of approving their business plans. I hear now that they didn't want to do anything until the moratorium fell, which is an absolute mistake because their capacity is limited, they can't process these business plans and really water companies will remain at the same prices as last year. And to tell you some also disturbing facts. Only the water companies that are under Holdinga's hat, the water holding company, have accumulated about 20 million overdue debts. For the rest of us who are with the Ministry, I have no record. One company.St. Razgrad, invoices that have been released in one month to its users, in total by combining, are less than their electric costs. energy. And from now on, I hope this doesn't happen, but if we drive by law and drive by law, as they say, every trading company must be declared bankrupt within a certain period of time, but from then on legally, when it is bankrupt, loses its right to an operator and cannot perform this service. Those companies which have contracts with associations, if they fall into bankruptcy and cannot provide this service, associations must declare them under concession. I don't think that's the point of this government much less. I have repeatedly stated from this tribune that during the management of GERB this sector was the stepchild and always that government was the stepmother of this sector. There have been some attempts and movements in recent years, but they, I see, have not given their results. And I can make, instead of compensation, one proposal: can with political will and the corresponding, if necessary and notifications, this sector represents about 1.5 of the entire energy market in Bulgaria, is transferred to the regulated market, there is only one change in art. 77, I think it was in the Energy Act, where this can be decided and will not break, once again, the total balance in all consumption in the energy system. This will not be a solution to the problem, but it will still be a solution to the problem in the coming months. You can kind of revive these companies and get them back on their feet, because if the Holding takes over to pay them the electricity with the investment money, then the other target is lost. So you have a great field and opportunities to think in this direction so that it doesn't come to this little apocalyptic picture that I'm drawing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u141	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You'd like to speak, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u142	Mr. Genov, thank you for bringing this up. He has not escaped us, though in the short time we are now as a regular government. We started talking there as a caretaker government. As part of the gradual inclusion to the control mechanisms of the state I had several meetings with the water holding company and asked for information. The information was, to put it mildly, staggering. Some of the companies I'm not sure about Razgrad, I'm sure about Haskovo, because I'm from there, have losses of over 85%, which means that they pay electricity, take out water and 85% of this water does not reach the end users. There is no normal company in the world that has lost 85%. On average for the system, I think the losses were over 60%. So this is an extremely inefficient system. Electricity simply brings this out to an extent to which this inefficiencies can no longer be transferred to the back of end-users with extremely high water bills. The temporary decision, since notification takes time, is indeed the water holding company to bear the costs at the expense of the funds they have for an investment programme. Why these funds have not been invested for two years was my first question. Why 800 million? Euro grant funds are not invested, it was my second question. Why are there companies that are not yet in the general "VK Holding" was my third question because it blocks for some of the regions the euro funds. The truth is, as you mentioned, that the sector is extremely badly managed. We will, of course, make efforts to save it without carrying it by the end users until the crisis has passed, but there we have already started talks with Minister Karadjov about making a very constructive plan. Because if we fail to invest European funds by the end of 2023, the water sector will lose 800 million. EUR potential investments which are extremely necessary. If companies pass on losses of water of the order of 3.5, maximum 7%, this problem will be dropped. Not only will the problem be removed, but the water bills will be able to be reduced at times for Bulgarian citizens. So, yeah, we're thinking about the sector. No, we have no intention of conceiting it. Thank you. [[Unique applause by.. We continue the Change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u143	Thank you. Come in as per procedure, Mr. Karimansky.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly and to the President of the National Assembly to stick to the point we have. And the point is not to discuss different mechanisms to seek the compensatory mechanism for business, or to provide for different measures for business in terms of how to support it in the part of electricity and gas, rather we should approve a solution and discuss a solution for additional costs and transfers to the state budget for 2021. I don't know why, but I have a feeling, at least I think we're drifting away from the debate and from the subject we're discussing right now. When we need to discuss the mechanisms, they will pass through the Energy Committee, we will listen to the Minister of Energy, as I have learned from both Mr. Atalay and other people who are involved longer than I have in the energy sector, that it is not only necessary that we hear about energy mechanisms, but that we need to listen to energies, engineers who deal precisely with energy. In this case, we turn this debate and open it in another direction. Please stick to the agenda and to the point we are debating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u145	Thank you, Mr. Karimansky. Your objection is absolutely justified and I also fully support it. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for a statement. There is another statement from Vladislav Panev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Karimansky, you're absolutely right, but we can't help but talk with a little detour. It is better today to create an atmosphere based on which the public understands how and in what way the trust that this government has received will help, without making a division of business, as you say, non-vibe consumers, because at the moment that decision we made a few days ago I am absolutely convinced that the Deputy Prime Minister does not support it, it is about the Moratorium, if it supports it, it is today to hear why we were against this moratorium and at the same time see whether the business is satisfied with what they expect. Of course, the expectations of your government, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, are very high, even more so when there is a price crisis. And in connection with the price crisis, we are trying to protect you so that we do not enter into an energy crisis. If we can be of service to you, we have our best wishes, which is why we're here trying to tell you what and how we see it, and you're making your decisions. However, these decisions you make must bring security, must bring stability, must put confidence in citizens. With the decisions you have made so far, it seems that I will not be able to agree that you are sending such messages that you are introducing security and trust in society. I'll argue. First, when you introduced the moratorium, I'm sure you've been asked, and if you're now acquitted with the KEWRC, you'll have three or four more months to justify it with the KEWRC. If you're making excuses with the previous ones, why are you taking advantage of art. 10 of the public funds? So you have a little more time for excuses to take a few steps, but the actions you are doing now will leave a mark further in the minds of the citizens and in the minds of the business. Four hundred and fifty million for the business, what with the mechanism we will determine and give them today, if you want to immediately make a survey, none of the business is satisfied with these funds you are setting. However, I congratulate you for finding at least these funds! But if you had come here with the other measures, with the other methods, for example how and how to take from those funds from the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, how to return them back to this account or if not in this account, then in the account of the Ministry of Energy, it could have been helped both the business and the regulated market. With the moratorium, you can't help. The KEWRC isn't your fault. KEWRC is an independent body and you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have no right to interfere in his work with your negative statements. Even with positive statements, you have no right. If you had made a move on VAT, you would have had one more money. I believe that the European Union has given you enough opportunity without going through these notifications, to find the means to help businesses and how. However, I say to you: the business today, sharpened the ears, hears that the government at last, after having been in the government for seven months now, especially you and Mr. Kiril Petkov, has the first steps he will take. But you're gonna do it, right, and you didn't do it. Now the question arises, the voters ask us: is the price crisis only in energy? It is in the overall energy that is currently traded both in the country and in Europe. It's not our stock market's fault. The stock exchange has rules and rules. You've noticed some gaps in the stock exchange and there are a few of them you know about the difference in hours on the gas platform, on electricity and on a number of other things. It's not a big deal, but it contributes to our being able to question the stock market. Why didn't you regulate them until now? What were you waiting for? Colleagues, the question people ask us is about helping energy to the energy poor. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in order to clean the wood from the people in order not to pollute the environment, we gave them pellet stoves, which from 300 leva. They're at 1,000 leva. Why don't we have any information for these people at all so far, here to present to us whether the aid will be through the Social Ministry or through any of them? You're in charge of everything, Deputy Prime Minister! In this way we would send a message to the citizens of Bulgaria that we have a stable government that we can trust. You haven't won anything like this yet. I have the feeling that you think you will manage 100 years, stepping on the old rules that GERB have introduced, as if you are judging you will rule another 100 years, only that... [[Heckling]] Mr. Karimansky, two or three more sentences, and you'll find that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u147	No, he just means it has to be on the subject, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u148	It's right on the subject. 450 million, which you are currently saying is not enough, but this is still the first step you will take. We'll survive them in some way the holidays, but then the day comes. What do we do from there? Therefore, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, our request is, following those unwritten rules, in an extreme situation, the money that has been collected is many and you know them, present them to the citizens, to the MPs how on feathers... We will not co-subsidize the thermal efficiency of Sofia so that the people from all over Bulgaria can pay the electricity, because you see that Sofia's co-generation should have been made from BGN 320. £620. All this stuff, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister... We will support you today, but I'm telling you not to look under your fingernails for mud, I'm telling you so that you can step on your rightful place and send a message of security, of stability, of trust in the government. Of course, we will work in the National Assembly to have our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u149	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Before I give the floor...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u150	Just one sentence. [[Heckling]] Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the water supply, I congratulate you on understanding that many of the funds have not been invested by the eight hundred million. What you are proposing requires 12 billion. lv. If you have them, hand them over and there will be no water leak. Besides, twelve more for the infrastructure that needs to be fixed. And that's what you need to know to tell us here where these funds are going to come from.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u151	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. I would like to remind you: in the previous item on the agenda, you yourself appealed to the MPs not to abuse that I do not interrupt or apostrophe them when they deviate from the subject. I will allow myself to recall those words of yours again. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u152	Thank you. Mr. Atalay, you've touched on several subjects. Let's start from what you said at the end, what should be the price of electricity at the Heat Efficiency Sofia that should be 300 and not 620. I fully agree with you, the independent KEWRC you praised has not. What the executive could do, she did it in September, because we were in the government from May until mid-September, and then we weren't. You and I were on an election campaign together. In September, the government in my face, in the face of the Minister of Energy, in the face of the Deputy Prime Minister, gathered the regulator KEWRC, electricity traders, big consumers and said: let's see what are the imperfections in stock trading; what are the imperfections in the regulations that the KEWRC adopts. We have proposed to the KEWR about how these imperfections can be removed. For three months, the KEWR didn't lift a finger. Whether it's good or bad, you have to decide. The National Assembly is not our prerogative to say. As you said, and I think that someone before you, KEWRC does not have enough capacity to analyse and control the system in the water sector and in the energy sector. This is why KEWRC has been working with this body since 2013 and has always relied on the executive for the analysis, at least for the analytical part. The electricity pricing model, which is currently being used, fell right in 2013 in discussions between the executive power and the KEWRC. This is the normal way to make these decisions. The KEWRC is indeed an independent body. This independent body has a number of expired members. That independent authority shall take decisions without having full information for one reason or another or not complying with the full information available. As Deputy Prime Minister, I support the moratorium with a period until the replacement of the members of the KEWRC with an expired mandate, which will give sufficient time to do analyses, to provide the KEWRC with information so that the KEWRC can start making adequate decisions. As far as investment in the water sector is concerned. Yeah, 800 million. EUR and 800 million BGN, i.e. a total of two and a half billion, may not be enough. However, investments are not 12 billion. They are done in accounts that are significantly increased as values and as activity. The truth is that in order to limit losses, an investment of the order between two and four billion levs would be enough to make most of the losses in the system disappear. That is why we have asked both the Water Holding and the relevant structures down to investigate where their biggest losses are to start the investment programme from there and gradually to limit these losses and to see the effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. Only Mr. Vladislav Panev remained to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u154	Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! As they say, inflation is a friend of the budget and enemy of households and businesses, so the step to return a billion and 200 million leva to electricity consumers and pensioners is perfectly logical and adequate. I would like to stress, of course, that 450 million for electricity is not enough in three months and the business has very clearly considered it both businesses and individual small and medium-sized enterprises. So we need a very serious communication campaign in terms of not being the only help we know very well. In the case of the postponement of the adoption of budget 2022, it may result from a defect, in so far as the price of electricity and natural gas on international markets is quite variable. I was just looking at the Amsterdam stock market, where natural gas is down 21% today. That is, we cannot make absolutely no predictions from now on to come true for the price of gas and electricity for three months ahead, and therefore very difficult to plan what budget aid would have been needed for business by the end of March 2022. However, by the end of January the forecasts would have been much easier. In this sense, delaying the adoption of the budget, I think it would be more positive for him to be with a lot more accurate ideas than if we were looking at him right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u155	Thank you, Mr. Panev. Mr. Tsonev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! The discussion on both points today "VAT" and the decision on the transfer of funds from this year's budget to next year on the COVID-19 measures showed several things. I would like to summarize them from the point of view of what I have heard, of course, and not with the claim that I will sum up on behalf of the entire assembly. The first is that we are outside the procedure, outside the rules, but we all agree that we are because there is a force majeure. So much for that. However, the second, which struck me, and in fact yesterday and in the Budget Committee, was so, is that we talked too little about the substance of the issue, and this financial transfer was almost entirely about the design of the measures. When you were away, I turned to my colleagues in the ruling majority that a debate was absolutely necessary before the budget for the design of the measures. I consciously use this word, which some try to use even for the creation of the world, which is to some extent blasphemy. This, of course, is a detour, a joke. But the design of the crisis is different now, and these measures are obsolete, most of them if you're going to bet them on the next budget, I think you'll be wrong. I am deeply not convinced that reducing VAT for restaurants is the right measure. We said that when we were doing it. I am deeply convinced that there are other measures both in terms of scope and in terms of funds here we already have, the main beneficiary of the crisis must be those affected by inflationary shock and not so many different industries. Business must also be compensated not so much for the measures of the mold crisis, as because of the energy shock the prices of the energy carriers. I mean, we have something that I'm sure you'll do with your team, but it won't be enough. Believe me, this has been done and when it is done only within the framework of the executive authority this debate, then you encounter a denial and a very long debate elsewhere, so are missed and serious opportunities to be corrected. So I appeal to the ruling majority to have this debate on the measures taken before the budget. The other thing that makes an impression is that the budget procedures themselves have said it yesterday, and I am now saying it for the record, for the transcript, not to rub it in your head.. It is an extremely pressing change in the Public Finance Act. The 2012 Act has been tracking a very bad way of spending public funds, which I think gives us last place in Europe on the efficiency of spending public resources. By the way, even in your programming statements, you say that you don't spend what you have to, where you have to. Without a change in the Public Finance Act, this is not going to happen. Yes, it would be detrimental to mobility, to the flexibility of executive power, but it would prevent a few other things. Including the application for zero tolerance for corruption. If corruption is released through the laws, zero tolerance will become a race. And she's been released. And the highway for this corruption through the laws is the Public Finance Act. If I have to use a modern term, it's the Interconctor of Corruption. Yeah, that's where you go. You let the executives spend without a sanction to parliament, jeeps and so on. [[Heckling]] You don't hear anything new, guys! You've heard it in the 44th, you're hearing it now. We've always said that! This is not a transparent way to spend public finances! This is not the way you can stop corruption further down than you are, if not you, further down than you. Because this is the focus of the fight against corruption only on the judiciary, whose task is to punish those who have already done it. Where's the prevention? Prevention is here in this room. And the Public Finance Act is the first measure. If it seems to you that I am deviating from the subject, I am not deviating, because the entire debate was on things that colleagues wanted to say in relation to procedures and the design of the measures. So I sum up what I heard and understood...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u157	All right, you've got thirty seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u158	Then I wish you: Happy Christmas holidays! Good luck. Good luck. Let me remind you, because of the vacation, because of those who are watching, and tomorrow we may read that we did not cancel our vacation, this year we had neither Easter vacation nor Augustan MPs. We don't complain, we know there'll be pleasure when, before we get to work, we get hit by 10 sticks per goal. Thank you. [[(Radio.) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I don't see anyone else who wants to make a statement. I'm calling off the discussion. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov for a split vote on the item. 1 et c. 2 of the Project Decision. Dear MPs, please vote on the proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. They voted 199 MPs: 43, against 40, abstention 116. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the main text They voted 201 MPs: for 201, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION TO ACCEPT THE CONSTRUCTURE OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I ask you to present the two drafts of a decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Project! DECISION amending the decision of the National Assembly adopting the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 106 of 15 December 2021) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He amended the decision of the National Assembly on the adoption of the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted on 13 December 2021. (prom., D.V., No. 106 of 15.12.2021) , as follows: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words.......................................................................................................... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "sports and youth in the Ministry of Sports" are deleted. The decision has been adopted by the 47th National Assembly of........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The other one: Project! DECISION amending the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. 106 of 15 December 2021) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision of the National Assembly to elect the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted on 13 December 2021. (prom., D.V., No. 106 of 15.12.2021) , the words the Minister of Sport are replaced by the words the Minister of Youth and Sport. The decision was adopted by the 47th National Assembly of... 2021 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u161	Thank you, Mr. Vassilev. I open the discussion on the presented projects. Mr. Kralev, come on in. It's not a procedure. It's a speech. [[speaking indistinctly]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u162	A statement, yes. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of GERB-SDS parliamentary group were seriously worried about the fact that youth was not included in the name of any ministry. In Bulgaria, young people between 15 and 20 years of age are nearly 1 million and 300,000 and it seemed that for the first time in 30 years the youth sector would be completely neglected. 2022 was declared European Year of Youth and Bulgaria must continue to prove itself as one of the leaders towards youth development in the European Union. Bulgaria has a European Commissioner for Youth, a coordinator for European Union youth issues, a special envoy of the UN Secretary-General for Youth, and this shows that our partners in the European Union appreciate the development of youth policies at the state level in Bulgaria. This is why GERB-SDS parliamentary group will support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kralev. Any lines to Mr. Kralev? I won't. Mr. Gazhev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I am delighted to see this proposal before me. Thank you for presenting it, even though it's not from the Prime Minister, nothing that you've sat a little bit in his chair, but it's accepted. [[Laughter, excitement by GERB-SDS.]] I am very happy because, by the way, this is a proposal that you can say that you have listened to the opposition's voice more or less. Already on the 13th, when we voted on the personal and structural composition of the Council of Ministers, if you recall, in my negative vote, I pointed out one of three reasons. One of them was precisely the dropout of youth from the Council of Ministers and, in particular, from the Ministry of Youth and Sports and became only the Ministry of Sports. That was a huge mistake. Then, if you remember, I said it from the stands. I'm glad you listened to him. By the way, on the 14th I asked Mr. Kiril Petkov how exactly will he develop youth policies, given that they disappeared from the Council of Ministers? And as you correctly recorded in the Motives, they are horizontal policy. There is no way they could have developed from the Department of Education and Science, as well as from the Ministry of Education and Science, as clearly planned. Not to mention that it has come to a ridiculous situation this week to be appointed as Deputy Minister of Youth at the Ministry of Sports, provided that youth was not yet in the Ministry of Sports. That is, this draft decision has not yet been voted on. I am very pleased to support this draft decision, as it is indeed correct. We said it was a mistake to drop him. I am glad that you have fixed it right now and we really hope that we will continue to work so constructively next year. I would love to say that at last the interests or rather the protection of policies towards young people in Bulgaria will be implemented at the level of the ministry, as it should be in order to obtain a really proper policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u165	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm calling off the project discussions. Let's move on to the vote. First of all, we are voting on the draft decision amending the Decision on the structure of the Council of Ministers, where the Vote 190 MPs: for 169, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. We move on to the draft decision to amend the Decision on the election of the Council of Ministers, which replaced the words of the Minister of Sports with the words of the Minister of Youth and Sports. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 164 against 15, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. With this, we have exhausted this item on the agenda. Thank you very much, Mr. Vassilev. We move on to the next item on the agenda, namely: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES ON THE TERRITORY OF THE BULGARIAN PROTAPEDEMIC MEASURES AGAINST COVID-19. A draft decision by a group of MPs from the parliamentary group of a party is deposited. I'm asking one of the importers to present the Project. Here you are, Mrs. Guncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We propose the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the anti-epidemic measures introduced on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against COVID-19. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the anti-epidemic measures brought into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against COVID-19 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances concerning the anti-epidemic measures brought into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria against COVID-19 to clarify: 1.1. Since the beginning of the announcement of the pandemic from 11 March 2020 by the World Health Organization, how many Bulgarian citizens have become infected, how many have been found to be infected, how many cases of re-infected, how many are sick, how many of them have been admitted to the hospital, how many have died from the disease, how many autopsyes of the deceased have been made, how many of them with accompanying diseases? 1.2. How many funds have been given since the beginning of the pandemic so far on clinical pathways for the treatment of COVID-19 in hospitals, and how is control of the causes of disease and mortality being carried out? What is the reason why the World Health Organization issued a special indication requiring, without performing an autopsy, all the deceased who are infected with a coronavirus, are with a stated cause of death CoVID-19? In this regard, how is the cause of death established without an autopsy in Bulgaria? Were there any cases of relatives of deceased persons being forced to agree that their deceased relative had been written as being sick with COVID-19? Is there any evidence that died from other diseases were listed as deceased or sick with CoVID-19? 1.3. How many cases are there of failure to health care, refusal of medical examinations, admission to the hospital and testing because of the condition that individuals have a CIVID-19 test or refuse to accept them because they are not sick of this disease? How many cases have died from other diseases because they were denied treatment because of the incidence of CIVID-19? 1.4. Get acquainted with the contracts concluded for the delivery of vaccines against COVID-19 by clarifying: how many people have been vaccinated so far, indicating the identified side effects of vaccination, have there been any deaths after vaccination within six months of the introduction of the vaccine by COVID-19 or other accompanying diseases. To clarify whether the clinical trials of all vaccines against the disease used on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria have been completed. 1.5. How many vaccines from which pharmaceutical companies were ordered by the Bulgarian state, how many funds were given for them, how many were used, how many were scrapped because of the expiry date, how many were donated to other countries? How are vaccines stored? What measures are being taken to store them and properly place them at temporary immunization sites? 1.6. To establish whether there is a virus study, its spread, symptoms of the disease, treatment and clinical monitoring of vaccinated Bulgarian citizens from Bulgarian universities or universities. 1.7. To establish whether there is a study on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on the effects of protective masks covering the nose and mouth on health. To determine if there are cases where the health status of the person does not permit the fitting of a protective mask. 1.8. To establish whether there is a study of the psyche of children under 18 years of age after the introduction of the measures, the imposed social isolation, protective masks and testing. 1.9. Have there been increased cases of suicide attempts, depression, psychosis, neuroses and other psychiatric conditions during the period of introduction of anti-epidemic measures? Is there a study of how social isolation and discrimination of sick persons and unvaccinated persons are affected? 2. In its work, the Temporary Commission may attract medical professionals, require data from hospitals, personal doctors, health records, clinical pathways, require explanation from doctors, hospital managers and others. To be heard and requested a report from the Minister of Health and the Chief State Health Inspector on the issues asked. 3. The Commission shall complete its work with a report within three months of its establishment. 4. The Commission shall consist of three representatives from each parliamentary group and shall be headed by a Chair and two Vice-Presidents. 5. Choose as Chair of the Temporary Commission:... 6. elect as Vice-Presidents of the Temporary Committee:... 7. The temporary committee shall be elected for a period of three months. I'll make an explanation here. New point 7: "7." He shall elect as members of the Temporary Commission:...something to be voted on if the establishment of the Commission is decided. Dear colleagues, I see that those who intend to change Bulgaria are no longer in the Chamber, at least most. As we can see, Bulgaria... [[Comments from GERB-SDS.]] Yes, I can see that you're here, but your colleagues aren't here as well as the BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u167	Mrs. Guncheva, I just need to open up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u168	If I could just give you a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u169	Motives can, yes, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u170	The reasons are that the lowest percentage of vaccinated people in Bulgaria is precisely because of the lack of information. On the pages of the Ministry of Health, this information that we have requested to collect the Temporary Commission is not available in all its fullness. People worry because they don't have information, not that much because they don't believe in science. As we can see, there are many rumors in the public domain, some credible, others not so much. I think that this way we will clarify to all Bulgarian citizens how the disease develops, what side effects it has, what the effects of vaccination are, and this will already give an opportunity for every Bulgarian citizen to really have and give informed consent whether to be vaccinated or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Guncheva. I am opening the discussion on the presented project. Here you go, Mr. Chorbanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic is extremely relevant in the society and the lives of every Bulgarian citizen and to a very large extent depends on how it will develop in this year, which is just beginning. So there are many things that perhaps need to be clarified for citizens, and to a very large extent to reduce this psychological pressure that there is on everyone and, above all, this opposition between vaccinated and unvaccinated, with and without a green certificate. It is for this reason that our parliamentary group will support such a committee in view of the things mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u173	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Chorbanov? I won't. Are there any other statements? Stoyan Taslakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! What's this about? As you can understand, the Commission raises some of the most normal questions that every person asks themselves on a daily basis. Since the new prime minister has repeatedly stated that people do not trust science and that we need a discussion on the subject, we believe that this committee will be in his aid and aid to dialogue. Where else would there be a discussion, if not from the highest tribune here, where all points of view can be met?! What's ahead of us now? Colleagues, we have two options. The first option is to support the establishment of this committee and to earn the trust of those who voted for you. So people will understand your selfless position to have a dialogue. There will be no doubt because the Commission will work publicly and no facts and circumstances around the pandemic will be swept under the carpet. There is also a second option: for example, you do not support the establishment of this committee, which means that you hide facts and circumstances related to the pandemic, vaccination, measures. People will understand that the Prime Minister's words are lies and hypocrisy. So I think there will be increased doubt and distrust in the population about the vaccination process, and this is still your priority, not ours. So if you do not accept this committee, chess and mate of your intentions for higher levels of vaccinated in Bulgaria. You're closing the subject today, here and now. Thank you. [[Applause from ARGUING.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u175	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. For a line or a statement? For a line, okay. Here you go, Victor Nasser, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I just need to add to this because we talked about the fact that Bulgarian society should be informed, it is definitely true. And Prime Minister Petkov has not once stated that the maximum objective information will be provided to all people on the topics with COVID-19 and vaccination. And today there's a 40-minute conversation on the subject. So I wouldn't agree in any way with the statement that if there was no such committee, there would actually be no information about people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u177	Thank you, Mr. Nasser. A line from Tosko Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u178	The situation is a little replicated one, but to remember the other because today there was a 40-minute educational conversation on Facebook with a particular medical representative who is about vaccination. I didn't see a 40-minute conversation with someone who expressed doubts about the way it was done. If there was such a conversation, or if it was a dispute, then maybe the line would be true that there is information on the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u179	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Third line? I won't. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Taslakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u180	Thank you. Colleagues, this is about trust. People don't trust you. The fact that someone was talking somewhere in the media or called experts and experts didn't trust them. You can see the levels of vaccination in Bulgaria and answer whether there is trust or not. I just apologize for the offer coming from rebirth. It probably should have come from you because you opened the dialogue. I guess how you would vote because, given the last week's meetings, you reject all the proposals just because they come from rebirth, but I think the subject is important. Just abstrate what group we're offering it from. We do it for the sake of dialogue. I repeat, your priority is to increase vaccination. If you are looking for the opposite effect, perhaps many of our sympathizers secretly hope that you will reject it today and thus show your true faces to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u181	Thank you, Mr. Taslakov. Are you, Mrs. Guncheva, to speak? Okay, let's just do a little rotation between the groups. Prof. Tonev, then Professor Mihailov and Elena Guncheva are for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Interesting is the topic and the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Resurrection. They propose the establishment of a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts................................................................................. This proposal will also include a very serious analysis of all the funds spent by previous governments. I am not very convinced that if this thing enters the Chamber, you will be very conveniently looked at by your new partners from GERB. So maybe you should think about fixing some of the points that are in the proposal. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have been in a real crisis all over the world for the second year. In the event of a crisis, we have two options: either we observe and take into account the results which, unfortunately, in the case of pandemic crises are alive, or we put in place measures - dynamic measures, we take into account results, looking for the balance between implemented measures, achieved results and, of course, preserved citizens' rights. Medical science is the same science that tells us doctors how to determine whether we have an appendicitis or not. The interesting thing is that patients who believe doctors that they have appendicitis do not trust doctors when they tell them what the right step is to protect themselves from a severe disease from a horse. All over Europe are currently closing doors, stopping trips, commenting on holidays to be spent modestly and without crowds. And we are discussing whether measures matter or not, whether the measures implemented have been true or not, and other such proposals from this House. Two days ago, the WHO, in the face of its regional director for Europe, named Hans Kluge, said it was expecting a new storm that would control the entire part of Europe in a few weeks and perhaps come to us. Since the entry point of the new subspecies of Omicron is obviously from the opposite direction from Northwestern Europe, we still do not have to fight it. Hans Kluge says: "We see a new storm is coming, which will dominate more and more countries in the region within a few weeks, pushing already loaded health systems to the edge. " Even a country like Russia, which is quite conservative, has adopted a very interesting solution for its big cities. I guess you're all familiar with him, so I won't say it so I don't create unnecessary tension. These are decisions and actions that are based on medical science. This science, which has already repeatedly spoken about both vaccines and measures. But when we don't believe in it or we just need to simulate actions before the voter, we reject all the scientific facts that are already known, and we propose setting up a committee to draw attention. That's our opinion. We believe that this committee will draw attention from the executive authority, where the decision-making focus is currently focused, and will prevent precise and timely decisions from being made. Perhaps this committee finally, after debates, discussions and obtaining facts, will come to a sentence that has been said 500 years ago by Galileo Galileo: "And yet it spins. " It is not bad that there are people who still believe that the Earth is flat, but it is strange if we have to prove it once more. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u183	Thank you, Professor Tonev. There's a line. Kostadin Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u184	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Tonev, an inspiring essay, I congratulate you on my enthusiasm. Just to tell you a few things, however: science is not believed. Science deals with undisputed facts. One of these indisputable facts that you as a medic know better, I guess, than me, is that the vaccine helps 99.99 percent. When you get vaccinated, you don't die. We've got a dead body on our hands right now. And these are questions that are caused by undisputed facts. The dead are over 1,000 people, they're gone as separate stats. If you want to know exactly how many of them are, Mr. Tonev, you need to take out the number of those who go to the media daily, from there to account for how many of the percentages that have been vaccinated have died, actually turn them into real numbers and not into percentage values. We can't talk like this, swearing on dogmas. Speaking of science, 500 years ago science claimed the Earth was flat. You mentioned it earlier. And 50 years ago, science claimed smoking was useful. And many other things have been claimed by science. Science is evolving, and we have no way of believing in anything. In principle, one of its main dogmas is that we have to test every single thing and doubt every single thing. In this case, we see facts that are undoubtedly worrying and worrying. And that is why we are proposing such a committee. If you are right, the Commission will prove this. She's on a pariah principle, no one inside will dominate. And in the end, what does it mean to dominate a committee that aims to establish certain facts? There's no ideology here, there's no politics. So I see nothing wrong with setting up such a committee, and I think that each of us should support it, because it will already allow for a final solution to all these disputes that are shaking the Bulgarian society for the second year already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u185	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. A line? Andrei Chorbanov. [[Reply from the National Representative Toshko Yordanov.]] On Elena Guncheva will be the third line, Mr. Yordanov, she waits before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a line to associate professor Tonev: there is no way not to react to such a comment. Do I look like a man who believes the Earth is flat? Because if it is, it's really gonna be bad. Of course, when talking about science, it should be known that science must be translated to people in a way that understands them. Only science can be translated by people who are involved in science. It's very easy to prove here in this room who's involved in science, because science, thank God, has science indicators that show who understands what. That is why the Commission does not aim, as far as I have heard from the importer, to be edifying, to be penalized as an action. The idea of this committee is to bring out facts to help Bulgarian citizens so that all events that have happened during these two years are clear. Thank you. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u187	Thank you. Ms. Guncheva, because one line was from your parliamentary group, there is a request for a reply and from a parliamentary group that has not done, I will give the floor to Emil Georgiev. You also have a written statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I don't know how many people have gone through this disease. I'm one of them. I stand before you because I have encountered this cruel invisible beast. And I lived thanks to the doctors in this room. I lived because of doctors in other hospitals. To propose such a commission means that we clearly do not honor the memory of those 30,000 people who died in a year and a half! So we don't honor the grief of these people's loved ones! I bumped into that beast. I've been in one of the hospitals for a month, I've been in a coma for two days, and I repeat, I have survived thanks to the doctors, a deep bow to all of them! The affirmation of such a committee is the way for fellow Members to constantly undermine all kinds of proposals and maintain a topic, only to act as important if they have nothing to say about it. I strongly vote against and call on my fellow Members: do not make a joke because we have a new wave ahead of us! I hope it doesn't come true what the doctors say! Because one month from now, we're gonna have another conversation. You probably found out what happened three days ago with Italy's top antivaxer, severely ill with a coronavirus, called on the hospital to vaccinate people. That's where we're gonna get her. Don't make fun of me. This is scary! Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u189	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Forgive me for not giving you the floor, but Mr. Georgiev was more of a speech than a line. Here's your doppelganger, Professor Tonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My hole is to Mr. Kostadinov and Professor Chorbanov. Professor Chorbanov, I am fully aware of your scientific achievements. I respect your opinion and the parliamentary group, but as you know, there are different views. I am a supporter of the point of view that sometimes mixing political speech and scientific facts is distorted in the direction of maintaining a political position and having some such appropriateness that allows us to mitigate the scientific facts a little bit. Mr. Kostadinov, I am very strongly provoked by your speeches on both the media and yesterday by your declaration. I respect your political position, which you are entitled to. But I'm going to take professional advice as a doctor: you just need to be more careful about giving messages related to medicine and healthcare. Yesterday in your declaration you stated that you do not want any measure to grant any rights. If we consider vaccination as a measure and believe the statistics I absolutely believe in the medical statistics in Bulgaria, as I have worked 15 years with medical statistics, 96% of the victims of the equine patients are unvaccinated. How to take away the rights of the vaccinated after being vaccinated that they have easier illness and die less often. This is a right that the vaccinated have received after being vaccinated, and it is a medical fact whether you believe it or not, as I said, you have the right to believe what you want. So there's no way we can take away people's rights after they received some kind of measure, if we can call it, and thus have an advantage, and that in your statement yesterday was said very accurately. About an hour ago, from a group that doesn't believe in a few facts that there's no disease, that it's easier, Mr. Ganev said there's a problem with anti-corporation drugs, which means he's very keen to have medication for a disease he doesn't believe in. Again, I have failed to understand the party's position and Mr. Ganev's position. [[(Relations from ARGUING): Who said that? Don't make suggestions!]] I have taken the stand and I have the right to speak, as the opposition has very often referred to this thing. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u191	Quiet, please! [[Noise and lines.]] Silence in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u192	That's my opinion of you. You're entitled to yours. Thank you. [[Applause from "We are continuing the Change."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u193	Thank you. Honourable Members, the length of the plenary session for today is over. [[Noise, lines: "Bravo! " and applause.]] We will continue with the discussion next time it is included in the Programme this point. Recorded for speech, unfortunately, did not reach the time, but remain enrolled, are Professor Georgi Mihailov, Elena Guncheva and Dzhevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u194	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-12-23.u195	He didn't hurt you, Mrs. Guncheva, no, no. Time's up. I'm adjourned. I wish you all happy holidays and I'll see you next year. The next meeting is January 5th at 9:00. The agenda will be specified. [[PHONE RINGING]]
