ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. Please, registration mode. We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] We continue with the first point for today: PROJECT OF THE DECISION IMPROVING DECISION (EU, EURATOM) 2020/2053 OF THE COUNCIL OF 14 DECEMBER 2020 ON THE SYSTEM OF OWN RESOURCES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND REPEATING DECISION 2014/335/EU, EURATOM. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2021 With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u2	Dear Madam President, before I present the Report, please put to the vote a procedure for admission in the hall of Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Reneta Mihailova, Head of Department of Economic and Financial Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 123 MPs: 118, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u4	♪ I can't believe on draft Decision approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, No 102-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2021, At a meeting held on 3 February 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The project was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance. Council Decision 2020/203/EU of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom is hereby published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 December 2020. The decision on the European Union's own resources and related regulations regulate the EU's own resources system ensuring the financing of policies and activities under the general budget of the European Union. They shall determine the types of own resources, the methods for their calculation and the rules for granting them to the European Commission by the Member States. In accordance with art. 311, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and art. 12 from the decision on own resources itself, after its adoption by unanimity by the Council of the EU, it should be approved by all Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, after which each Member State shall immediately inform the Secretary-General of the Council of the completion of the procedure. In view of the subject matter of the decision and the impact of Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget on the expenditure of the country's state budget, the legal basis for its approval is art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Decision of the Council of the European Union of 14 December 2020, which will be implemented during the new programming period 2021 "2027', provides for a number of innovations in the system of the European Union's own resources compared to the one in force from the previous programming period, among which the following changes are most important: 1) introduce a new resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste in the context of EU environmental and climate policy. In order to avoid excessive negative impact on a part of the Member States, a mechanism will also apply to it which will benefit the Republic of Bulgaria to reduce their annual contributions from this own resource; (2) the VAT-based own resource will already be calculated on the basis of an improved methodology based on the so-called frozen average rate and unit rate for all Member States; 3) One of the most significant changes in the decision on own resources is the inclusion of provisions in relation to exceptional and temporary measures to address the consequences of the crisis caused by the coronavirus epidemic. The European Commission is empowered to borrow from the capital markets funds up to 750 billion. EUR (2018 prices) for the financing of the Recovery Facility, the next generation of the EU and the issue of repayment of the principal of the loan and with a view to ensuring the capital markets of the EU's ability to accurately and promptly repay the loan is temporarily increased by 0,6 percentage points, the ceilings of own resources. The European Commission's authorisation is exceptionally, temporarily and under the restriction to use the funds employed solely for the purpose of tackling the effects of the crisis. In view of the provisions laid down in the own resources decision governing the withdrawal of the loan for the financing of the Recovery Facility, it is necessary, in urgent order, to approve it by all Member States. Otherwise, the whole process of restoring the European Union from the current crisis will be put at risk. The entry into force of the decision on own resources is expected to lead to a slight increase in Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget by about 4,17% (according to forecasts for 2021. , which is taken into account in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and in the forecasts for 2022 "2023." This is why the combined impact of the amendments that Decision 2020/203 introduces into the system of own resources, including the changes caused by them in the shares of the Member States in financing the European Union budget. On the part of Bulgaria, the Minister of Finance will make the official notification to the Secretary-General of the Council immediately after approval by the National Assembly of the decision on own resources. The new own resources decision will enter into force from the first day of the first month following the last notification of the completion of national procedures and will take effect retroactively from 1 January 2021. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the draft decision approving Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, No 102-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2021. Madam President, to present the Decision: Project! DECISION: approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 311, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union HAS DECIDED Approves Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom;
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Stoinev, come and introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President! ♪ I can't believe on draft Decision approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, No 102-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2021, At its regular meeting on 3 February 2021, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the draft decision approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020. The draft was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Ms. Reneta Mihailova, Head of Department of the Economic and Financial Policy Directorate in the same ministry. [[Noise.]] With the current draft decision on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 311, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is proposed to the National Assembly to adopt Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/203 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. [[Noise.]] Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, to apply for the period 2021. In the performance of art. 311, para. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in conjunction with art. 12 of the decision on own resources itself, Member States must take action, in accordance with their national constitutional provisions, on the approval of the Council of the European Union decision on own resources. [[Noise.]] I'm asking, Madam President, for a clamp. Colleagues, the issue is extremely important and because we are required to vote, so please have the patience to hear what is coming and to join the report because the Bulgarian Parliament must take a decision on which European funding depends.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u7	I'm joining Mr. Stoinev's call. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I'm continuing with the report. The National Assembly should rule on the decision on own resources given the subject of the decision and the impact of Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union budget on the expenditure of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. At its meeting held in the period 17 July 2020, the European Council concluded that, in the coming years, the Union will work to reform the system of own resources and to introduce new own resources, stressing that the final arrangements on this issue must be guided by the general objectives of simplification, transparency and justice, including fair burden sharing. The consequences of the COVID-19 crisis have brought forward the importance of ensuring that the Union has sufficient financial capacity in the event of economic turmoil. On the agenda is the need for exceptional financial resources in order to overcome the effects of the crisis without increasing tensions on Member States' finances at a time when their budgets are already under enormous pressure to finance national economic and social measures in response to the crisis. In this regard, exceptional recovery and investment measures have been taken at European level, which have also affected the decision on own resources. In order to ensure the conditions for borrowing from capital markets up to 2026 of funds up to 750 billion. EUR (2018 prices) by the European Commission, on behalf of the European Union, to finance the newly adopted EU-generation Recovery Facility, at the European Council meeting in July 2020, an agreement was reached on a temporary increase by 0,6 percentage points of the own resources ceilings... only in order to cover all the Union's obligations arising from borrowing, until all these obligations cease to exist and no later than 31 December 2058. In addition, European leaders agreed to introduce new own resources, such as the proceeds from those introduced after 2021, to be used for early repayment of loans under the Recovery Instrument, with the explicit clarification that the Union should not use capital market funds to finance operating costs. A joint declaration by the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission ensures that the expenditure to cover the financing of the Recovery Instrument is not to be charged to the European funds and programmes next generation. Following the negotiations between the Council of the EU and the European Parliament on 14 December 2020, the following key elements and changes in the own resources system for the new programming period 2021 have been approved: - Traditional own resources (TORs) - these are the duties which Member States collect on behalf of the European Union as a result of the application of the Common Customs Tariff and of the relevant sectoral legislation of the European Union. The share of traditional own resources collected which the Member States retain to cover administrative costs of their collection shall be increased from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. - Resource based on value added tax - the application of a unit rate of 0,30% for all Member States on the total amount of VAT revenue collected from all taxable supplies divided by the weighted average VAT rate calculated for the calendar year concerned (compared to the current system where part of the Member States benefited from a reduced rate of planned expenditure for the year concerned). - Gross national income-based resource - this resource is determined by applying a uniform rate to the Member States' gross national income by continuing to play a complementary and balancing role in the EU budget. - A new resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste, which is introduced in the context of the European Union's priorities for green transition. The resource shall be expressed in the application of a single call rate to the weight of non-recycled plastic packaging waste generated in each Member State. The call for a flat rate shall be EUR 0,80 per kilogram. In order to avoid excessive negative impact on part of the Member States, a mechanism is introduced to reduce their annual contributions at current prices from this own resource. Bulgaria will also benefit from this mechanism, and the draft Council decision contains 22 million. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to - The approach to applying adjustments in favour of some of the Member States shall be maintained and, for the period 2021, 2027 they will take the form of gross reductions in the GNI-based contribution of Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden. With the entry into force of the new EU Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053, a slight increase in the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the EU budget is expected, by an average of around 4,17 per cent, according to the estimated estimates for 2021, as compared to the hypothesis in which the decision is not adopted and continues to apply the current Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, on the own resources system. The decision on own resources will enter into force from the first day of the first month following the receipt of the last notification in the Council of the EU and will take effect retroactively from 1 January 2021. After its approval, the Minister of Finance shall notify the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union of the completion of the procedure in Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed................................................................................................................. to the National Parliament'................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to ask for some attention from us from extremely important state institutions, including the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on this issue. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u11	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u12	An opinion was sent by Mr. Dencho Georgiev Vice-President of the Bulgarian Association for International Law, by Professor Tatiana Hubenova, who is Chairman of the Union of Economists in Bulgaria, and by Professor Irena Ilieva Director of the Institute for State and Law at BAS. Although in the committees we supported the texts in advance, these extremely authoritative Bulgarian organizations pay attention to certain details, and always the devil is in the details. Our estimates from yesterday show that we must be extremely careful whether to vote today on the Ratification of these changes in the European Commission and the European Parliament, or ask the Bulgarian government to wait and hold talks. What's this about? Honourable Members, there are, in principle, three factors that require a review of the organisation, the mechanism of forming and allocating the financial resources available to the European Commission. Firstly, this is Britain's exit from the European Union, which automatically reduced the contributions to the European Commission's central budget to 13 billion. Euros. Secondly, absolutely right are the attempts of the European Union and the European Commission, which we have always supported, to increase the financial resources of the European Union and increase the opportunities of centralised fiscal policy. It's all great. Thirdly, the entire European Union and Bulgaria face the challenge of COVID-19. Solving COVID-19 problems also implies an increase in resources. So we are categorically about increasing these resources, in order to increase the financial opportunities of our family, the European Union, for solving the problems, but our authoritative colleagues from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and our estimates show that we should have in this case one in mind. What's this about, fellow Members? [[Noise.]] Be careful, fellow Members, what is this about, because the voters will ask us! It is about this increase in the European Union's funds for poorer countries in the European Union and in Eastern Europe that will make greater contributions than the rich countries in the European Union. It is pointed out that the five most developed countries of the European Union want a regression approach, that is, a sick healthy brings their increase in the contribution to slow down, compared to the increase in the contribution of the Eastern European countries. We cannot support such an approach because this approach leads to a contraction of scissors and, in fact, dominance of the EU's cohesion policy, where one of the main objectives is to help slower developed countries in order to be able to align with the European Union's average indicators. I'll give you one more example. Let's say if you didn't pay attention, we started from 10% years ago, now 20%, so far the revenues from Bulgaria's customs as a border country remained in Bulgaria's budget, now you see that they are increasing to 25%. However, there is one feature that most of the goods and services that revolve in the Republic of Bulgaria are not imported across our borders, i.e. in the rich countries of the northern coast of Europe, in the west of the Atlantic, and the Mediterranean, most of the revenue from customs duties will remain in these countries. In a nutshell, we are definitely about an increase in the EU's resources, but we cannot agree to change the policy of the European Union so that the rich, highly developed countries can withdraw from this mechanism extremely delicately, extremely well arranged in this document. Finally, honourable Members, I propose that we abstain and entrust the Bulgarian government to continue the talks because there is a great disadvantage here in our work and interaction with the Bulgarian government. When did the Bulgarian government inform us that he was having such talks? Has the Bulgarian government consulted Parliament before then? Did the Bulgarian government ask the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is a leading state institution, to do analyses and to tell him these things that they said at the last moment when they learned the information? Finally, honourable Members, do you know how many countries have so far signed and ratified this amendment? Just one country, Croatia. The other 25 countries, now Bulgaria, have not addressed this issue. The question arises: why does the Bulgarian government run to the front to pay more money than the rich? For what reason? That Brussels picked up the phone and they were running with the rubber stamp before the election?! [[GERB lines.]] And this will be paid for the next decades. I suggest that we ask the Bulgarian government to continue the talks, to make the accounts one more time and together with the other countries affected by the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, to hold talks because otherwise the production will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is no coincidence that when I read the report, I asked the MPs to listen carefully and to understand how important this vote is to come. Professor Gechev is absolutely right that we are really in a hurry with this decision, ahead of many countries. Only Croatia has ratified it so far, and Portugal is currently the Portuguese Presidency, ratified in France in the two chambers. I also understand the Bulgarian institutions for their quick actions, because the fact is that perhaps, Professor Gechev, people do not know what will happen in the coming months, given the parliamentary elections, whether we will have a working parliament at all, but this decision, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, has already been made. The government can't take a back step because it's taken unanimously. This is a special legislative procedure by the Council of the EU and is in agreement with the European Parliament. I fully understand, Professor Gechev, and it is good that you explain to us why we did not have the debates in advance on this decision of the Council, because it is quite normal in any European country before that to have debates. In every normal European country, the Prime Minister visits parliament, puts the hot file on the table and everyone joins together and debates. Unfortunately, this is not happening in Bulgaria. It is no accident that we from the opposition want the Prime Minister to come, even if he should be invited if necessary. I also asked the chairwoman to personally ask him to come so that we could follow European practices, not so much to pick on him as to discuss the files that are on the agenda. Today is such a cardinal, important file that we must vote on, namely an increase in our contribution. Yes, of course, someone will say: "Why do we need to increase?" Well, in the end, it has been decided at European Union level, it is increasing by 0.6%, they are necessary to cover capital market costs. You know, this crisis has surprised all European countries, made a large-scale policy on the part of the $750 billion supply. EUR which must help the Member States and this money must be found. It is right now that you will make this decision that you need to increase this contribution. Of course, I remember Mrs. Petrova said, if I am not mistaken, that imports into absolute numbers of a billion and three hundred are going to be a billion and five hundred somewhere between 200 and 250 million. BGN, but ultimately we have to debate here because this is required of us and membership obliges us. How did it come to this? We see that the net donors, which Professor Gechev spoke about, are talking about these five countries, such as Germany, Denmark, Austria, Sweden, the Netherlands, I say by heart at the moment, the net donors to the European budget want a reduction. Are we okay with that? No. Is there this regression that will have an impact on European policies on cohesion policy, which is designed precisely to help less developed countries, what will be the effect? That's what we're supposed to debate here! A few months ago it was supposed to be this major debate, to have a European approach, not to be given a solution, for which we are already facing a done fact! It's been voted out, accepted! What did the Prime Minister say, did he bargain, what his policy was? We, unfortunately, don't know! That's why we opposition want to have a debate and let him come here. I'm giving you another example. This initiative of mine was approved by the Stability and Recovery Plan, to be seen in the parliaments of the Member States, in France it was approved in both chambers, in Italy it was approved, Ursula von der Lyon supported this initiative, only I was not supported by the Bulgarian Parliament because someone had to spend 12 billion opaque projects with another 100 projects that no one has seen and wait for approval. Then we wonder and you are angry that the opposition resents, criticizes and almost accuses us of anti-European politics. No, I didn't! We want to have a European policy, but you refuse by refusing dialogue by refusing debates. I'd love for you to come out now and explain to us why it's come to this. Why should we vote on something that the decision has already been made and we are about to be done? And in each country, I can show you the transcripts of how the Prime Minister defends the government's decision in individual committees and in the respective Parliament. Here in Bulgaria, it seems that this is some policy of theirs in Brussels, for us to watch here, at home, what is happening and we do not care about it. They give us money, we distribute it to the nearby companies of power, and that's it! Why? Why? And when such a vote comes, you say: "Yes, but if you do not support it, you are anti-Europeans! " - No, it is not! We just want to have a debate. Of course we are empathetic to such actions. Of course we want in. Of course we will have a different vote in our parliamentary group, but it is because we resent the way you work, especially when it comes to European funds. And now this is exactly the kind of debate that should be going on here. We should probably have had a non-violent debate here, but the opinion, of seeing if it is regressive, isn't this a regression approach, what is the reflection of cohesion policy, tax collection, how this will affect. Only I'm convinced there won't be any debate. It's pathetic. Therefore, Madam President, when we invite you to parliament to come to the Prime Minister, it is more out of respect for an institution than to sit and pick on it. Because it is important what our priorities have been, how we have fulfilled them, whether we have not fulfilled them during the German Presidency. Yes, you cannot meet all the priorities, but why have we not fulfilled some of the new ones, how are we going to complement them, how are we going to make this digital economy, what are the first steps to green transition, how are we catching up on the priority of the Portuguese Presidency, namely the social pillar, what will our policies be there? We want to hear them, debate them, explain to the Bulgarian voters, but as if we are continuing in a way that is any way, but not European decisions taken, decisions voted, comes to parliament, press the panel and go to point two! Unfortunately, in this practice we really need to put an end to it. This happens, of course, with dialogue and debate. Thank you. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. A line, Mrs. Stoyanova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u16	Thank you. I would like to make a brief reply on the occasion of Mr. Stoinev's speech and just remind him that at the beginning of 2020, all the files for the relevant year, which the committees, and especially the European Commission, to which you are a member, should consider and assess which of these files will be examined, as now, for the next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u17	Now do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u18	If you were interested in this dossier, then you should have met him during this whole period of 2020 as the Committee on European Affairs to monitor him. So I firmly do not accept that the National Assembly has been isolated from this debate. I do not accept that decisions have been made by someone else, without making it clear to the MPs, without having the opportunity to have a debate. You're wrong here. [[Applause and replica by GERB: "Bravo, Menda! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u20	Come on, he'll give us brains!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u21	I thank Mrs. Stoyanova for explaining to the MPs what the main functions of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds are. And at the moment, as with any Presidency, there is such a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova, and I expect from all the parliamentary committees the priority files that you are interested in to be given to our committee, to which I have the honour to be chairman, after which the entire file enters the hall and we all accept it. So I don't see any problem in that. This thing's been going on for years, it's always been like this. The problem, Mrs. Stoyanova, is that when we find a similar file here, which we are interested in, is...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u22	I guess you don't care about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u23	...nice to have a government to answer questions. Because until now the Prime Minister has not come and presented any national position, colleagues! Not one! European prime ministers before a Council meeting discuss in their parliaments and present their national positions until we do not have one! That's the difference between them, unfortunately, and you, not us! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u25	Honourable Members, it has become clear that this dossier was clearly not interesting for the opposition and the Committee on European Affairs, because otherwise we would have discussed it by now in 2020 repeatedly. But I want to tell you a few things. Firstly, it must be clear that so far, and in the new programming period, Bulgaria has received and will receive more than it does as a contribution to the European Union. For the next programming period, what we are talking about, Bulgaria will receive three times what it imports into the European Union. Moreover, Bulgaria comes first from all Member States, so it is the first beneficiary to receive the most from all Member States, on the basis of, naturally, comparative analysis. In order for this to happen, heavy negotiations have been conducted. You know that one of the major net donors of the European Union budget............................................................... is quit................................................... This meant a serious redistribution and demand for options for each country to take part in the lack of these funds and to increase its participation in the revenues of the European Union budget. What we are looking at today is, in fact, the policy of own revenue, the European legislation on how EU own revenues will be formed, which will be spent on the programmes concerned. Not accepting from one Member State, even if it is Bulgaria, of what we are looking at today at this decision of the European Union and of the Council, means blocking the entire budget of the European Union for the next programming period, means that Bulgaria will not receive the billions provided for it, both in the various programmes and in support and recovery programmes after the crisis of COVID-19. What did we hear from that tribune? From this tribune we have heard suggestions that, you see, someone is obliged to continue working and to give more and more to Bulgaria and similar small and more backward countries. It's a fact, colleagues. Net donors continue to be net donors. They continue to give much more, precisely from the point of view of European solidarity. So we get three times what we import. But no, that's not enough for the Socialists! They are taught to work for them, and they only consume! That's what they want for the state now. [[Applause from GERB.]] What are they saying now? Let's not vote, and let's say we give up the billions that will help Bulgaria recover from the pandemic and continue to develop. Because we want net donors to give more, to continue to be not only net donors, as they are now, but there is little to give, yet to work the Germans to give to us. That's what they say! But this is their philosophy, which has always been recognized by this political power and which, if God forbid, come to power in a few months, they will realize in Bulgaria as well. But I'm saying something else here. For me, this statement is very dangerous, especially the first to speak from the BSP. But I'm not surprised at him. For me, this was a clear request against European policies. A clear statement that Bulgaria obviously if these people had the opportunity to manage, they would have led a policy against European policies. That's the most dangerous thing I've ever heard! I want to tell you at the end, I want to finish a little more expert, and I want to tell you one more time. As a result, this mechanism, this decision to form the European Union's own resources, will actually lead Bulgaria in figures to an increase in Bulgaria's contribution to the European Union by 4.17%. And once again to tell you about the entire programming period that against these 4,17% Bulgaria will receive three times what it imports and will be the biggest beneficiary in the new programming period. This means the country that will get the most in relation to all other European countries. But no, the Socialists are calling you today: "Vote against this! Let Bulgaria block it! - You know what I'm talking about? Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo! Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u26	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. A line? First of all, Mr. Zarkov. [[GERB lines.]] Later, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Ivanov. [[Reply of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov.]] And I'll give you a fourth line then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, my reply is provoked by your last phrase: "You understand what we are talking about?" I am afraid that you have no idea what you are talking about, which is absolutely unacceptable for the President of the Budget Committee of the Bulgarian Parliament. Perhaps you should talk about the Gambling Act that you import from time to time through various laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u28	Mr. Zarkov, please, just on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u29	And we'll be watching in a minute. It is about the European Union's own resources, a matter that has been dealing with Europe for years because it is interlinked with what the European Union is as an independent organisation. What my colleagues Professor Gechev and Dragomir Stoinev said is the most pro-European position possible. We want and will do so when we come to power to take part in the debate that is being held in the European Union and to state its position on what the European Union should be like as an organisation of which we are a primary part. And you have made Bulgaria look like a beggar in the eyes of other countries, as a country that simply considers with grocery bills how much it gives, how much it takes and just sits and prays every single day on TV you, your representatives, the Prime Minister and whoever it is, explains what we have taken from the European Union, as if it were some kind of cow we need to milk. The European Union is much more. There's more of us. We're an inside and a real part of it. There is no problem in giving more than our own money, because we are part of the great solidarity. But this should be explained, to speak in the Bulgarian Parliament, in the European Parliament and in the European institutions, and not just to come and tell us: "Let us vote on this, because this is what we agreed on, and to buy an indulgence for what we really are in the first place.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u30	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u31	Corruption! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u32	Mr. Zarkov, thank you. Second line, Mr. Gazhev or Mr. Ivanov? [[(Reply of the National Representative Vejdi Rashidov:]] You may take a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u33	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I take this short line to you because in your extensive speech you have said many truths and the way in which the Socialists present their economy, clearly and truly our membership in the European Union, but you forgot to remind them of the following: Although Bulgaria has been receiving more money than it is importing for so many years, and have been agreed on in all the programmes in which Bulgaria is developing and supporting its economy and infrastructure, recovery after a horse crisis, it is important to note the following and ask you: Do you remember during their management how many programmes with European funds have been stopped? During the Oresharski government, as I recall, and during the Triple Coalition?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u34	And Stanishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u35	And also to ask you: am I correct in the information that 98% of the agricultural programs have been absorbed during the government of GERB, which reach the Bulgarian farmers, to the Bulgarian farmers and during the socialist management of BSP are stopped? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u37	Madam President! Ms. Stoyanova, you are absolutely vicariously presenting the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Let me remind you that Bulgaria's official request for membership in the European Union has been with a Socialist Party Prime Minister since 1995 and we have been accepted as a member of the European Union by a Socialist Party Prime Minister. So calm down. Secondly, if you review the votes in Parliament, we have always supported: we want a representative of the government to come here and explain the position of the Republic of Bulgaria because the other prime ministers and governments in Europe are not rubber seals. We are not obliged as a member of the European Union when calling from Brussels to run to the rubber stamp. Each country and parliament protects its interests. We consider on the basis of the analyses of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Union of Economists of Bulgaria that the position of Bulgaria is not completely protected. Thirdly, when you consider the benefits that are undisputed for Bulgaria, do not speak unilaterally. And the Bulgarian market for European goods and a billion and a half profits of foreign banks, which are 70 percent in Bulgaria, where are they going? Do not turn Bulgaria into charity, as my colleague Zarkov said here, who is just waiting to receive funds from the European Union. We are and will be a worthy member. Finally, honourable Members, some of you are allowing yourselves to attack the Bulgarian Socialist Party on what they have learned to do. Well, you're 90 percent from the Bulgarian Communist Party, you were lazy until 1990, and now you're hard-working? [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are the children of the active fighters going to give us brains?! Have a nice day. [[Applause from the BSP of Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u38	Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u39	Mr. Zarkov, I suggest, first of all, in your parliamentary group that you understand who wants what, because I saw a serious gap between Mr. Gechev's statement and your line. [[Replications by MP Rumen Gechev]] which gives me reason to believe that you have a different opinion and attitude towards the European Union and the way it functions and Bulgaria participates in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u40	Quiet, Mr. Gechev! Listen to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u41	Naturally, your vision is modern, and I accept it, so get well inside first. Do you want us to be beggars, or do you not want us to be beggars? Do you want us to participate as partners in this Union, and even though we are a less developed country, receiving much more from European solidarity, to be a worthy partner? Or do you want us to block the policies of the European Union that are in our favor and on which the National Assembly and you as a parliamentary group have had the opportunity to debate here throughout 2020, from this platform, or in committees, or do you want to show your electorate now what you want to do after you may get their vote and thus state your future policies? [[(Replys from the BSP of Bulgaria (BSP of Bulgaria))]] . It's a doppelganger, ma'am. Reply to the lines I received from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u42	Don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u43	Bulgaria has conducted the negotiations, tough negotiations, with all the European countries and what it has achieved is worthy of respect, because Bulgaria continues to be, again I say, the biggest beneficiary of the European Union budget and for the next programming period Bulgaria will continue to receive three times more than the EU budget from what it will import... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . They're not props, they're the truth. ...and if you want to block this, do it. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. There was a statement... Here you are, in the manner of conduct. Are there any other statements that have been made, colleagues? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, you have made a mistake in the conduct of Mrs. Stoyanova's suggestion, and you have not interrupted her. I'm quoting. She said: "A clear request of the Socialists against European policies." You remember very well yesterday "we watched the Bee Act, I here, Madam President, I proposed art. 7, which says that the Ministry of Agriculture will conduct policies related to the entrepreneurship, in line with the European community, I proposed this member to remain, you voted by GERB and by the United...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u46	What exactly is it to me? What's your remark to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u47	Well, what do you mean? The Socialists are for the European development of Bulgaria and you voted yesterday to drop this thing. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u49	And, secondly, you made a mistake too.. Mr. Ivanov should have interrupted it by saying that farmers have mastered record.. more than 90%. [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator's talking to off microphones. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u50	Mr. Georgiev! Mr. Georgiev, by the Rules of Procedure, you have the opportunity to make speeches, lines and duplicates. I wouldn't know which MP what he wants to say, and I wouldn't know if he's making suggestions or not. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The way you're holding on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u51	That's right. You allowed Mr. Ivanov to make suggestions that over 90% record money had entered the farmers. That's not true either. In the Agrarian Report, if you look at... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator's talking to off microphones. Replies from the Bulgarian BSP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u52	Mr. Georgiev, I asked you... [[(Replicates from the BSP of Bulgaria.) The orator continues to speak on off microphones.)]] But you're making a statement on the substance of another law. So I can't take that remark. Thank you. [[Replys from the BSP of Bulgaria and GERB.]] Mr. Gazhev, please come in the manner of conduct. Anyone who wants to speak may. I didn't stop anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u53	Madam President, I will not continue with the bees, I have only a few words to say. First, the Lisbon Treaty in force for Bulgaria since 2009. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u54	To me, Mr. Gadget. You have a comment for me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u55	Yes, yes to you. I was just going into context to make your point. The Lisbon Treaty introduces the principle of subsidiarity, hence the enhanced role of national parliaments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u56	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u57	Now you'll hear. The Lisbon Treaty also introduces the early warning procedure for... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u58	To me?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u59	Now you'll hear the procedure. No, the procedure is to... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u60	Yeah, yeah. Tell me the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u61	An early warning system is also being developed for comments on cooked European legislation or files. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Also...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u62	Mr. Gazhev, I'm going to ask you: let it be the procedure for me to have equal arsin for everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u63	The procedure is: I would like you to consult and provide the National Assembly with the early warning system of the European Union, a yellow or orange card, on this dossier by the European Affairs and Control Committee on European Funds, which is its prerogative in the development of the files before that? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there an early warning procedure used on this file from the Bulgarian National Parliament to the European? That's what I'm asking. Did anyone use it because...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. I will make such an inspection and inform the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u65	...to see if this file was even fit, available in Bulgaria long before today's date was examined, whether there was a reaction by the committees, to say were there any used ones?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u66	Got it, Mr. Gadget. This is a specific recommendation to me, so I will do my best to inform the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. [[DPS lines.]] I'll figure it out, guys. You don't have to tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u67	Madam President, I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u68	It's not a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u69	But to make sure I'm not wrong, we're on t. 6 of the draft decision approving the Decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u70	That's right, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u71	Because you just made a line to one of the speakers that you can't know who's gonna say what...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u73	You certainly can't know, but you certainly know that the debate is on this point. Six on one Project Decision. The debate is not for or against the European Union. The debate is not which party has what positions on the topic: is Bulgaria going to enter the European Union now, or will it be coming out, and the debate is being held about it. And as you cut off the microphone, cut it off on this part of the room as well. [[directs to GERB]] Because I don't want to use the word that's on my mouth about what's being said right now. Not only does it have nothing to do with the point, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. So get in character.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u75	The scandals that occur from this tribune are mainly and because of the way we conduct it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I have interrupted only the MPs when they speak in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u77	You should've cut him off.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u78	It was the way it was supposed to be. It wasn't by speech or any other procedure. Colleagues, any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I vote on the draft resolution for the approval of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. I will not read the decision, as Mrs. Angelova read it before then. Vote 152 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Angelova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u79	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, since during the debate no desire or intention was expressed for changes between first and second reading of the decision, I propose...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u80	It's a draft decision, Mrs. Angelova. You don't vote twice. It shall be adopted in one vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u81	Okay, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u82	Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON MEASURES AND ACTIONS ON THE TIME OF THE EXECUTIVE POSITION NOTIFICED BY THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 13 MARCH 2020 AND FOR THE TRANSFER OF THE CONCESSIONS. The report will be the first to introduce us to the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u83	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021. At a meeting held on 3 February 2021, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister; and Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Associate Professor Dr. Diana Kovacheva Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill was presented by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The proposed changes shall aim at municipalities which have not recovered within the period provided by the central budget interest-free loans under art. 103 and 130g, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act and § 38 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, do not be intercepted with the transfers to be granted to municipalities. In this way, municipalities will receive a "vacation" for the period from 1 January 2021 to 2 months after the cancellation of the emergency epidemic situation. This delay in time will enable municipalities in a difficult financial situation to receive their regularly approved State Budget Act transfers for a common matching subsidy and the target capital subsidy. During this period they will be able to have a larger resource provided to them by the state budget, part of which may be aimed at financing the pressing anti-epidemic measures to prevent and limit the spread of COVID-19. The proposed additions to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Value Added Tax Act aim to extend the period of application of the tax relief, which constitutes State aid to farmers under art. 189b of the Law on Corporate Income Tax and Art. 48, para. 6 of the Law on personal income taxes until 31 December 2022 relating to the extension of that period in European law. With the Appendix to this annex, 64 of the Additional provisions of the CCCI in the concept of a preferential tax regime jurisdictions are also included in the States/territories included in the European Union list of jurisdictions not cooperating for tax purposes, since six jurisdictions of that list are found not to appear on the national list under the Order of the Minister of Finance. In this way, the safeguard measures that Bulgaria has adopted against the jurisdictions with preferential tax regime will also apply to the jurisdictions of the European Union list. The proposed changes to the Gambling Act aim at overcoming legal ambiguity in relation to the type of number lottery game. This will bring together the requirements for proving investment and will introduce an additional obligation for participation in these games to be carried out by means of certification marks, the models of which are validated by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. This will improve control over the players in the games. In addition, the amendments to the Gambling Act overcome a legal gap regarding the terms and conditions of admission into service in the country of any type of equipment designed to organize gambling. The Appendix to the Law on National Standardization is related to enabling the costs of the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization to verify the conformity of the type of technical device supplied for machine voting with the requirements of art. 213, para. 3 of the Election Code and the requirements of the technical specification for an established methodology to be financed by transfers from other budgets for other activities entrusted by law. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks establishes a State-owned oil company, which is currently not yet listed in the Commercial Register and cannot be addressed to the ones referred to in art. 11b of the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. The aim of the proposed text is under the current legal framework The State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks is to be able until the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the state-owned company. 11b of the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks and the Law on Stocks of Oil and petroleum products, since so far, under § 19, para. 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Reserves and Wartime Stocks, the Agency performs only activities in the current management of existing stocks. The proposed amendments to the Family Aid Act for children aim at levelling the amounts of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e of the same law, granted to families of relatives or relatives and voluntary foster families, with those of parents or adoptive parents. Unlike professional foster families, these families do not receive remuneration. Families of relatives or relatives receive monthly benefits under the Child Protection Act only if they meet a certain income criterion. It is therefore necessary that these families receive more adequate support for raising a child with permanent impairment. For the purpose of equality, it is proposed from the amount of aid to the families of relatives or relatives and voluntary foster families where the child has a certain 90 per cent and over 90 per cent type and degree of disability or degree of permanent disability, to deduct the amount of monthly financial aid under the Child Protection Act if the families receive such benefits. These are monthly maintenance aids and the supplement for a child with permanent disability. The proposed provisions concerning the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 are related to the change of the amounts of monthly aid for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e of the Family Aid Law for Children Granted to Families of Relatives or Relatives, and to Voluntary Foster Families. These changes result from the proposed amendments to the Family Aid Act for children. The proposed amendments to § 31, para. 1i§ 44, para. 1 and 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Social Services are related to the changes made to the Law on Census of Population and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, as well as to a proposal of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria on the future planning of social services. The proposed change is imperative in order for municipalities to start preparing the first analyses of the needs of social services only after the census was carried out in 2021 and presenting the official data thereof. At the same time, from the change in the deadline for the adoption of the National Social Services Card, a change in the period during which the financing of social services will start by standards developed in the new order. Following the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for the draft, with no objection and 8 abstentions. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 29 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will present to us Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on a Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021. At a regular meeting held on 4 February 2021, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021. The bill provides that, for the period from 1 January 2021 to two months after the cancellation of the exceptional epidemiological situation, no deduction of the transfers to be granted with the interest-free loans granted by the central budget of the municipalities shall be carried out. For the same period, it is envisaged that no interest will be due on the outstanding amount of interest-free loans. These are municipalities that are in a difficult financial situation, and this delay in time will enable them to receive their regularly approved by the State Budget Act transfers for a common matching subsidy and a target subsidy for capital expenditure. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expressing support for the Bill under this provision, as well as on the amendments proposed in the Transitional and Final Regulations to other laws concerning the activities of the Municipalities. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with: 11 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Ms. Angelova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Labour, Social and Demographic Committee for the First Voting of the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences No 15-01-7, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 3 February 2021 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020 and to overcome the consequences with importer Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. As regards the subject of the work of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the Bill were presented. The amendments to the Family Aid Act for children aim at levelling the amounts of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e of the Family Aids Act for children granted to families of relatives or relatives and voluntary foster families, with those of the parents, the adoptive parents. Unlike professional foster families, these families do not receive remuneration. Families of relatives or relatives receive monthly benefits under the Child Protection Act only if they meet a certain income criterion. It is therefore necessary that these families receive more adequate support for raising a child with permanent impairment. For the purpose of equality, it is proposed from the amount of aid to the families of relatives or relatives and voluntary foster families where the child has a certain 90 per cent and over 90 per cent type and degree of disability or degree of permanent disability, to deduct the amount of monthly financial aid under the Child Protection Act if the families receive such benefits. These are monthly maintenance aids and the supplement for a child with permanent disability. The proposed provisions concerning the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 are related to the change of the amounts of monthly aid for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e of the Family Aid Law for Children Granted to Families of Relatives or Relatives, and to Voluntary Foster Families. These changes result from the proposed amendments to the Family Aid Act for children. As regards the Law on Social Services, the proposed amendments to § 31, para. 1 and § 44, para. 1 and 2 of its Transitional and Final Provisions are related to the changes made to the Law on the Census of Population and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, as well as to a proposal of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria on the future planning of social services. The Association proposes the deadlines for the preparation of the first analyses of the needs of social services and the development of the National Social Services Map to take into account the population census forthcoming in 2021. Otherwise, municipalities in 2021 will have to prepare analyses based on the 2011 data that are significantly outdated and obsolete, and in 2022, due to the new results of the census, new needs analyses will have to be prepared for the mandatory update of the National Social Services Card after each census. The proposed change is therefore imperative in order for municipalities to start preparing the first analyses of the needs of social services only after the census was carried out in 2021 and presenting the official data from it. At the same time, from the change in the deadline for the adoption of the National Social Services Card, a change in the period during which the financing of social services will start by standards developed in the new order. No matter when the card is accepted, the funding should coincide with the beginning of the corresponding budget year. The change of § 38, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Social Services, which extended the period for licensing under the new order by 6 months, is required due to the still complicated epidemic situation in the country. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency Situation, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Finance and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance supports the amendments proposed by the Bill aimed at introducing measures to improve the social and economic situation of different groups of the population and Bulgarian municipalities. Ms. Adriana Stoimenova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, also defended the bill in its part of changes in the two social laws. In its opinion on the Draft Law, the National Association of Municipalities commented § 9 thereof, expressing a supportive position. The discussion was attended by the MPs Milko Nedyalkov and Hassan Ademov. National Representative Milko Nedyalkov objected to the changes in the Social Services Act on the grounds that the national census will hardly change the picture of the social services in Bulgaria. Dr. Hasan Ademov objected to the style of making legislative changes in social legislation through the Transitional and Final provisions of the submitted bill and the amendments to the State Budget Act on the grounds that it is not appropriate to change it from MPs. Following the end of the discussion and the vote with results: 10 votes (for) and 6 votes (for) against (y) and without votes (y) abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences, No 154-01-7, submitted by Menda Kirilova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 29 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u88	Thank you. Will we have an importer's opinion? I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our attention is given to the bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the state of emergency. The structure of the proposed bill is very interesting. There is only one single paragraph in the main body of the Amendment and Supplement Bill. All other issues are resolved in the Transitional and Final Provisions, with the notice in these Transitional and Final Provisions changing the VAT Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Gambling Act, the National Standardization Act, the State Reserve Act and the Wartime Stocks Act, the Family Aid Act for Children and the Social Services Act. Why, in our view, can this law not be supported despite meaningful proposals in some of the proposed projects? The first thing I would like to say on this issue is that in the framework of this National Assembly it has become a style the way in which the rulers of GERB and the United Patriarchs are law making on the fast track, on Friday last week this bill is tabled, passes this week through the relevant committees, and today on Friday we are looking at the Bill at first reading. Where is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, where is the coordination procedure, where is the public discussion, ladies and gentlemen, on these very important issues? The reasons of the Bill say that all these measures that support natural and legal persons, including municipalities, are related to the crown crisis. But, ladies and gentlemen, the crown crisis has been here for a year! During the budgetary procedure we also discussed tax laws, discussed the State Budget Act, discussed proposals under the Family Aids and Children Act, which are approximate to those currently being made in this bill. Why are these proposals now being made and not accepted when it was their time? Next, even in the unfortunate attempt to amend the Constitution at the end of last year, I could not see a text that gives MPs the right to change the State Budget Act! This is proposed in this bill supposes changes in the State Budget Act with representatives of the National Assembly! So how does this work, ladies and gentlemen?! Under which law MPs change texts in the State Budget Act, which are also related to additional financial costs which under the Public Finance Act cannot be adopted within the calendar year. And the Ministry of Finance with a very interesting opinion says that with compensated changes. How to compensate for changes, for example in the Family Aid Act for children - 600 thousand. lv.? Let the Ministry of Finance and importers come to say from this platform which measures and policies will be cut in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy so that these additional costs can be covered? No one is saying that these additional costs are not necessary. We say that this is not the procedure in which all these things can be changed. And now a few words regarding paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, which concern the subjective scope of the activities of the Social Committee. Honourable Members, in 2016 art. 8e in the Family Aid Act for Children, which regulated financial support for families and adoptive parents of children with permanent disabilities. What does that mean? This means that children who live in biological families and in adoptive parents' families, if they are 91 and 90% species and degree of disability and percentage of jobs lost, receive the maximum amount of 930 BGN. a month. However, I am opening a clamp under the Personal Aid Act if these families enter into a contract with a personal assistant, up to BGN 360. of these funds goes as the salary of the personal assistant. But there's another group. When it comes to the Child Protection Act as a measure of protection, if the child is accommodated in a family of relatives, relatives and foster families, then note the amounts are depending on the type and extent of damage 490 BGN. for the worst cases, £420. for the next group, and 350 for those between 50 and 70%. What does the importer suggest? The importer suggests that for the most severe cases the amount should be increased to 930 BGN, for the next group to be increased to 450 BGN, and the third group to be 350 BGN. However, there is one small detail, because there is additional financial support for support under another law. In the Rules of Application of this Law there is regulated financial support when it comes to children with no disabilities, accommodated in families of close relatives, then these families receive additional support depending on the age of the child and the income criterion based on a guaranteed minimum income, which is 75 BGN, as you all know, receive additional support from 300 BGN. depending on the age of the child. If it is up to three years old and if it is more than 14 years old.. 300 BGN. However, if the child is disabled and is accommodated in a family of close relatives and foster families, here another term is added, which is not in social legislation. This term is not explained in an Additional provision because it is a new term in legislation, but this is the smaller problem. These families, except those 300 BGN, receive an additional monthly and 90 BGN. 120% of the guaranteed minimum income. And now what does it turn out to be? In the reasons of the Bill it is written that for the hardest children the amount is increased by BGN 490. £930. With 440 leva. However, there is another text that says that these additional costs under the Law on Child Protection, namely under the Rules of this Law, are reduced by this amount, i.e. instead of the increase of 440 BGN, we actually have an increase of 50 BGN. This is what needs to be made clear.. do not increase by 440 BGN. the most severe cases, and the amount is only increased by 50 BGN. Thank God there's such help for these children. There's no problem with that. All of this, however, is done despite the difficult discussions over the last 5 years in connection with this discrimination between children who are raised in biological families and adoptive parents and children who are raised in a family of relatives and foster families. When we talk about foster families, however, there is another serious note that I want to make. Who is she? Foster families, and professional foster families, receive when raising a disabled child in the family, receive a salary within 1.5% of the minimum wage, or these 975 BGN, and when it comes to two children - BGN 1040 - because it is 1.6 of the minimum wage. No one is against this salary, however, if we accept the understanding that children placed in a family environment in terms of their ability to reintegrate from the point of view of their ability not to go to institutions, it is right that the conditions that are for the raising of these children, the conditions that are for financial support, must be uniform, because I have always been against the universal approach, but in this case it is not a question of differentiation, it is a question of ensuring the same institutional environment in order to prevent these children from entering institutions. This is why, once again, because the legislation is a piece of paper today we accept this, tomorrow we try to make up for the problems in what we have accepted, the third time we accept something else that we are trying to solve again, so I continue to argue that professional foster families, even though they are prepared in the appropriate order with the relevant qualification of the Agency for Social Assistance, even though they have greater experience, have greater opportunities to raise these children in a family environment, still discrimination exists in terms of financing of professional foster families and children who are raised in biological families and children who are raised by relatives, relatives and foster families. It's something that needs to be decided maybe in the coming years. The Ministry of Finance says there is no problem with internal government changes the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy can compensate for these costs. I took the trouble of calculating the natural indicators because there is a register of these children and the help that is being obtained. We are talking about 466 children last year who are accommodated in such families and are talking about the new measures for an additional 600,000. lv. Where's the Treasury Department gonna get it? 600,000. lv. it does not become clear in the proposed bill. Changes are also proposed in the Social Services Act. These changes are related to the development of the National map of social services. And the National Association of Municipalities, not only now, but also when the Social Services Act was adopted, claimed that there was no way on the basis of the 2011 census data to make this National Social Services Card in 2021. That is why the deadline is now extended with the hope of the national census in 2021 to pass, the National Statistical Institute to say what is the location and hence to make the National Card. And without the National Social Services Card, there is no way they can be financed by standards for which a regulation is now being made and therefore it is proposed to extend the deadlines. And another deadline that's being extended. The period for licensing of social service providers shall be extended. The current law states that this should be done by the end of June 2021. It is now proposed to extend the deadline to the end of the year without it being clear why. Therefore, with these arguments, which I have said, despite some of the meaningful proposals for improving support for individuals and legal entities, with these remarks and especially with the cherry of the cake
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To our attention again is the Bill relating to the Law on Emergency and Measures under it. Unfortunately, the 44th National Assembly will be remembered with the label and brand "Transitional and Final Provisions." I do not see what is exceptional in terms of the changes that are being made at the moment with the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Gambling Act, but will not take into account this topic?! I will take account of the Family Aids Act for children and the Social Services Act. Ladies and gentlemen, what is offered to us by our attention, related to the support of families who raise children with disabilities and who are accommodated with relatives and relatives with over 90% degree of disability, is a good and qualitative proposal, but extremely discriminatory, because in no case in the focus of the proposals made there is a settlement of those so necessary texts in the Child Protection Act which discriminate, on the one hand, children who are accommodated with relatives and relatives and, on the other hand, discriminate against those children who are raised in foster families. I want everyone who knows the Child Protection Act and the Rules for its Implementation to open art. Art. 49, Art. 50 and to see this division between the children who are placed with relatives and relatives, and the children who are placed in foster families. Every year during parliamentary control, I place the topic of the number of children who are accommodated with relatives and relatives and the number of children placed in foster families. Unfortunately for me, all these little children, 4700, eventually need the support of some protection because they can't be raised by their biological parents. Unfortunately for me, however, if we see statistics and data, we will see that the children who are accommodated with relatives and relatives are about 700 and the children who are accommodated in foster families are about twice as many. This shows that most likely the focus of the state is now focused rather on maintaining foster care and not on the possibility for the child to be accommodated with relatives and relatives. Why am I talking about discrimination? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 The Rules for the Implementation of the Child Protection Act introduced a hypothesis that really families with the child can receive support. They can also receive this support, they get it if they also protect an income criterion that is extremely reduced. This is the five-fold amount of the guaranteed minimum income. Each of us knows how long this guaranteed minimum income has been frozen and the amount amounts to 375 BGN. This limited income criterion, on the one hand, prevents some of the families from receiving such support. I have data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2018 and 2019. Do you know what the data shows? Data show that if, in those families, on this basis, the Social Assistance Agency determines whether the family in which the child is accommodated should receive such support from the State and receive up to a certain amount of the three-fold amount of the guaranteed minimum income for a certain age If you divide the amount given by the state for these children, from the data I have, about 3066 children received such support in 2018. If we divide the amount allocated by the state, we will see that the families where the children are accommodated in the case of relatives and relatives receive about 180 It is an exceptional differentiation in relation to what foster parents receive. The hypothesis of the possibility for foster parents to receive support is developed in art. 50. There they are necessarily receiving support from the state, and as I said, in families where children are accommodated with relatives and relatives, there is no levelling-off......................................................................................... In this case, I do not know why on a piece, why, just before the elections, ignoring the budget procedure adopted two months ago, we are currently doing a revision only and only of the text for children who are disabled and who are accommodated with relatives and voluntary foster families. I don't know where you got this notion of voluntary foster families, but at the moment we happen again so that we make legislation in a piece, we make legislation through Transitional and Final Provisions, on the fastest track, not ultimately to solve one particular problem, but to open two or three next. My next comment will be related to the changes, the proposals you are making in amending the terms of the Social Services Act,.....................why you all solemnly announce that we have hardly adopted new legislation for people with disabilities. A new legislation for people with disabilities, which is left to logs, because we find one reason or another to postpone it. Here is now the census of the population is the main reason why we should reschedule this national map for social services. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you who has worked in municipalities or has access to local self-government knows how the planning of a social service takes place. Such planning takes place in each municipality and has traceability through the ESGRAON database, respectively for the population and the needs of the population of the relevant social service. We are, again, precisely because we are incompetent, precisely because we cannot do our job, or we are comfortable, or the lack of funds, we are again extending the deadline and the possibility of adopting this national map for social services. And, you see, at some point, this national map of social services is extremely necessary for us to adopt the new standards!? That's a shame, because one has nothing to do with the other. We extend the deadline for the adoption of the standard regulation precisely because we do not want those quality and necessary social services to be carried out because everything reflects ultimately in money. Everything reflects on this service being quality, but the people who perform it receive really adequate remuneration for their work. Everything you're doing is creating even more chaos, and what you're offering us right now is a piece of paper. It is untenable and we will not support it. We will abstain because it really does not focus on the people who need it most, it is focused on the elections that are coming. You're not solving problems, you're deepening them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u92	Thank you. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Klisurska, I agree with your analysis, but I object to the fact that you didn't bind me strangely, the changes in the Gambling Act with the problems of the disadvantaged children. You did not say that an organized criminal group of senior officials and representatives of the gambling business stole from these children and from the Bulgarian families, according to them, according to the organized criminal group, officially 700 million. lv. Why didn't you say so? Why didn't you say that now a month before the elections the problem of Bulgaria is that in 10 laws in the 11th again engage in gambling and not the problems of the disadvantaged families and children, that they are waiting with the open bag to receive their commissions if they issue the license they want. Shame and shame! So you had to respect the organized crime group in Bulgaria and say that they are now hiding. Ladies and gentlemen of the organized crime group, shine your shoes, as after April 4th you will have very intense and exciting conversations! Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u94	Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, what did you see in the proposal on this bill? That we are equalizing the rights of disabled children who are placed in families of relatives and relatives?! Is that what you think is pre-election? You are a socially responsible party, aren't you, when it comes to supporting children, disadvantaged families, you need to support any such proposal, not to seek speculation, manipulation and to say in front of the stand that you will not support this proposal, which gives more money to disabled children who are placed in families of relatives and relatives. Is that you, the socially responsible BSP party? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u96	Another line? Third line, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u97	Dear Mrs. Klisurska, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Klisurska, perhaps it would be nice to make changes when there is a budgetary procedure, then make changes, and not now to do it in pieces. But when we hear gambling, of course, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is always first. Moreover, I am impressed that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova reaches this level to change, colleagues, the State Budget Act. We have not seen such a thing, so I wonder where it will come from, because I think only on this basis should this bill be withdrawn because the principles of parliamentaryism are being violated. Moreover, there will be an update of the state budget at the moment because approximately 600,000 are missing. lv. I would like to ask you, Mrs. Klisurska: do you not think that at this moment the bill should be withdrawn and GERB, if they really wanted to help these children so much, should have done it and voted on the changes when we were looking at the State Budget Act and not now to change the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u98	A hole? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stoynov, dear Mr. Gechev! Each National Assembly starts with amendments to the Gambling Act and ends with the Gambling Act. This is the most important law of the Republic of Bulgaria! It regulates the best public relations for Bulgarian citizens. And do you know what's strange is that in the Emergency Act we are currently entering a license for some kind of game a state of emergency that requires us to adopt with transitional and final regulations changes to the Gambling Act?! That's what I'm talking about. On the subject and Mrs. Angelova's line. If you have listened carefully, I said that what is being done with the proposal is good. We are currently at first reading, and what we are being introduced with the whole text of the Bill that we are dealing with is total chaos, total lobbying for certain sectors and the inclusion of this social support in these proposals. I do not mind the levelling and the possibility of really children with disabilities and parents who raise them, voluntary foster families, relatives and relatives receiving this support. But all this compote that is being offered to us is nothing better for Bulgarian citizens and therefore we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u100	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Angelova, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wouldn't be making my statement on this bill, but I'm provoked by the pre-speakers, and that's what I said in the line I made. It is the practice of the opposition when the ruling majority offers something good to support disadvantaged people, in this case children with disabilities, to distort the facts in order to belittle themselves, to confuse people. I therefore take the floor so that I can tell the MPs what this legislative change in the Family Aid Act actually contains. The main objective to be made is to equalise the amount of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability under art. 8e of the Family Aid Act for children granted to families, relatives, or relatives, or voluntary foster families with those of parents and adoptive parents. Unlike professional families, these families do not receive any remuneration. We are talking about families where children with disabilities are accommodated. Families of relatives or relatives, as has been said in this House, are given assistance and support under the Rules for the Implementation of the Child Protection Act. But I would like to stress that this help is not given to all families because it has a lucrative criterion. And in order for the support of those families who raise children with disabilities to be more adequate, the aim is to equalise these monthly aids. So there is nothing wrong with this, especially for children who have a certain 90 per cent and with over 90 per cent type and degree of damage or degree of permanent reduced performance, the aid to increase from 490 BGN. £930. This is an increase of 440 BGN. For a child with permanent disability, accommodated in the family of relatives or relatives, or voluntary foster families with 70 per cent to 90 per cent type and degree of disability, or degree of permanent reduced performance, the aid will become 450 BGN, or increase by 30 BGN. Why are those aids that receive the families with permanent disability to relatives and relatives then removed in order not to duplicate the aid itself for the same type of support? But in no case will families be harmed, especially those who raise children with disabilities with certain 90 per cent and over 90 per cent type and degree of damage, because in any case the amount that these families will receive for support for children with disabilities will always be 930 BGN. As much as the families, parents and adoptive parents who raise children with disabilities receive. So there's nothing discriminatory about it, nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, this proposal is extremely reasonable, extremely good, in support of families, relatives and relatives who raise children with disabilities. I believe that this proposal must be supported by all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before us is a law with which obviously the importers are tasked to solve all problems remaining until the end of the term of office and all the gaps they have made in the legislation. Dr. Ademov, who spoke before me, said our parliamentary group would not support the Law. I'd like to add a little more clarity to the motives. Honourable Members, it has become practice in this Parliament to adopt the laws and major amendments to them through the transitional and final provisions of some law. Of course, such legislative technique has and you very well know that it is very specific and is rather an exception in the way legislation is made. This has become a rule that has been brought to absurdity. The biggest absurdity in this rule is to change the State Budget Act for this year with the State Budget Act of the next. It's just that kind of legal absurdity I don't know if anyone else is gonna make. And when I thought about adopting the Budget Act, that this was the tip of legal nihilism, I was wrong. The tip of legal nihilism we are getting today in the form of this bill. This may seem secondary to you, perhaps it seems more important to you how we are going to solve people's problems right now than to waste time observing legislative machinery. But I'll tell you, if that's how you feel, that's very deceptive. I'm not talking here at all about the rating of parliament, I'm not talking here at all about some tradition, about what needs to be observed anyway, so that there are rules in this country, because those who legislate, those who enforce the rules, cannot afford the luxury to crush them. Look, nine or ten laws change here. Most importantly, however, I will not waste your time, as many colleagues have spoken on the various laws and Dr. Ademov speaks, and other colleagues, yes, there is a need for family aid and so on......................... there may be a need for changes in the Gambling Act, because it is obvious that there the regulatory absurdity has reached its peak. One year no longer has an authority to license, there is no authority to control, no authority to sanction, everything there is left at all, so to speak, on a solo basis. However, notice the provision of § 8.. I turn to the lawyers of the majority: do you think that someone has suddenly given us the right to a legislative initiative under the State Budget Act? Mrs. Stoyanova, you're one of the importers. You should listen. The amendments to the State Budget Act are a legislative initiative of MPs. It's not only unconstitutional, it's talking about serious ignorance. And if you think we haven't noticed that you're trying a little bit to get around it, and in § 8 you don't say, "In the State Budget Act and it's changing...".................................................................................... The order of Art. 63, para. 5 of the State Budget Act shall also apply to this amendment of the provision of art. 63, which is an amendment to the State Budget Act. And who exactly gave a Member of the National Assembly the right to have an initiative to amend the State Budget Act?! I regret that our parliamentary group does not have enough majority to refer to the Constitutional Court. But I would advise colleagues who have such a majority to do so. No one has the right to amend the State Budget Act with the initiative of a Member of the National Assembly. This can only be done by the Council of Ministers. I only stop at this to see the absurdities that you have created under the good excuse to help people and solve some problems that have arisen during the course of the pandemic or in the course of implementing the laws, to help some social groups and so on. The way an action is carried out, if it is illegal, does not justify the action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u104	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on Measures and Actions during the Emergency, announced by a decision of the National Assembly of 13 March 2020, and to overcome the consequences by No 154-01-7, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 80 against 8, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nedyalkov, the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u105	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u106	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against this bill for three reasons. First, because of the fully imposed technique of the Transitional and Final Regulations, which extend from good to bad, from laws that are outside the area of state of emergency since March last year, and reach the Gambling Act, which are not changes of such a nature, which are materially related to the state of emergency. From this first motive to vote against it it is understood that GERB can be related to a.. the party of the Cross and the final provision before the new elections. My second motive is that in this mix of different laws that you have thought to pass with this law, you have forgotten the accent, most importantly by caring for municipalities, for people with disabilities, you are making changes that do not apply to people and their existence during the epidemiological situation. And the third very important question about the Social Services Act, which you again throw and postpone in time for an unknown time. I want to tell you whether there will be social services or not, whether there will be a map of social services, it does not depend at all on the census in the Republic of Bulgaria, because the social service is not statistics. It is the work of the society to help the weak, which depends on entirely other motives. But that's hard for you to understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mrs. Angelova, you had a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u109	Honourable President, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure that I am doing to reduce the period between first and second reading of the newly voted bill to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u110	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 106 MPs: 83, against 21, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Ms. Alexandrova, you have the floor to present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote the admission to the plenary of Mr. Stamen Yanev.. Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Dimitar Kuyumdjiev. Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and Professor Plamen Kirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u112	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u113	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021. At its meeting on 3 February 2021, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Stamen Yanev, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of the Department, Law of Establishment and Services and by the Commission for Protection of Competition: Mr. Dimitar Kuyumdjiev, Vice-President, and Mrs. Nadya Mincheva, Director of the Department of Law and Competition Policy and by the Association for Modern Trade: Mr. Yordan Mateev, Executive Director; from the Association of the Producers of Soft Drinks in Bulgaria: Ms. Jana Velichkova Executive Director; from the Association of Foods and Beverages Bulgaria. The draft was presented by Mr. Yanev, who indicated that the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the granting of powers to competition authorities of the Member States to be more effective in law enforcement and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between operators in the agricultural and food supply chain. The introduction of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/1 will ensure the strengthening of the powers of national competition authorities through the guarantees provided for therein for their independence, resource security, the introduction of effective instruments for the detection and collection of evidence and the imposition of penalties. The settlement of various procedures, such as the right to take explanations, to carry out checks on premises and the possibility of sanctioning the undertaking's successors, is proposed. The provisions of the Directive aim at uniformising competition law enforcement and provide for the possibility of imposing sanctions on associations and associations of undertakings. The bill establishes rules for the release or reduction of the sanctions of a cartel participant when the participant has effectively facilitated the disclosure of the cartel agreement. Another emphasis in the Bill is placed on unfair trade practices in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. The transposition of Directive (EU) 2019/633 aims to protect agricultural production, which is particularly insecure industry due to its dependence on biological processes and on weather conditions, as well as to protect farmers and food suppliers from more powerful commercial operators With the change of the Chapter of the Law, the effects of the application of unfair commercial practices in the chain of supply of agricultural and food products will be countered and the interests of business operators will be protected as a weaker country in these supplies. The bill provides for absolute and conditional bans on unfair commercial practices, precises the procedure for examining and collecting evidence and imposing provisional measures and complements the rules for initiating, conducting and terminating proceedings. The Commission's competence for the protection of competition in the area of misleading and comparative advertising shall also be described in detail. It is envisaged to award costs to the applicant of the request in the event of the finding of the lack of infringement or termination of the proceedings due to the withdrawal of the request and the control of the legality of the Commission acts is entrusted to the Administrative Court of Sofia district. The bill explicitly introduces the right of access to the documents on the file within the time limit for providing written objections and extending the powers of the Commission to ensure the establishment of new institutional experience after the introduction of the requirements of the directives. With regard to the application of the European concentration rules introduced by Council Regulation (EC) No In order to maintain the economic viability and competitiveness of the participants in the concentration, the appointment of a special representative shall be proposed to monitor the implementation of the measures approved by the Commission. On the occasion of the opinions expressed, please read: The Association for Modern Trade and the Association for Food and Beverage Bulgaria (Bulgaria), Mr. Kuyumdzhiev, pointed out that the unfair commercial practices referred to in art. 37c of the Bill, constitute conditional prohibitions and adds that no sanctions for such practices will be imposed when contracts between traders contain explicit clauses on those practices. As regards the possibility of imposing penalties up to 5 per cent of the turnover of the violator, he added that this amount was provided for in the Directive and this is the maximum threshold for such infringements, and a mechanism for assessing the amount of the penalty was explicitly laid down in the Commission rules according to the involvement of the violator in the proceedings. The discussion was attended by the MPs Todor Baychev and Anna Alexandrova. Mr. Baychev expressed the need for a comprehensive review of competition law. Ms. Alexandrova pointed out that the political party GERB parliamentary group will support the Bill and added that between first and second readings will be taken into account. It noted that the proposed provision for dropping the ban on re-election for another term of office of the members of the Commission for Protection of Competition will be revised. In response to Mrs. Alexandrova's question, Mr. Kuyumdzhiev pointed out that the proposal to create a new Chapter................................ is described in detail the rules of unfair commercial practices and this regulation creates more precise and detailed rules than the repealed Chapter.................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, with no votes against the Council of Ministers and 7 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. With the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mr. Stoinev will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021. At a regular meeting held on 3 February 2021, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Kuyumdzhiev Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition (KPC). The meeting was also attended by Prof. Dr. Plamen Kirov a member of the KPC, Ms. Nadya Mincheva, Director of the Department of Law and Competition Policy and Ms. Desislava Georgieva, Head of the Department, Law of Establishment and Services at the Ministry of Economy. The importers point out that the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition has been drawn up in compliance with the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union, to align the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2019/1 (Directive ECN+) and Directive (EU) 2019/633. The transposition of the directives provides for the adoption of laws, regulations and administrative provisions at national level necessary to comply with existing national legislation with the European Union's new regulatory framework in the area of competition protection. According to the reasons proposed in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, amendments and additions are intended to reflect the new rules relating to the continuation of the decentralisation process of the powers of the European Commission in the field of competition protection introduced by Regulation (EC) 1/2003. According to importers, this is also the main objective of Directive ECN+, which provides for the extension and strengthening of the powers of national competition authorities in the following hypotheses: in the investigation of alleged anticompetitive behaviour, in the application of sanctions exemption regimes when communicating secret cartels and in the exercise of the powers of national competition authorities relating to enhanced cross-border cooperation. As regards the operation of Directive (EU) 2019/633, it is concentrated mainly in the area of unfair commercial practices, in the relations between operators in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. Its aim is to overcome significant imbalances in the negotiating position between suppliers and buyers of agricultural and food products. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds with 3 votes in favour, without the votes of the Council of Ministers and 2 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Foods. Welcome, Mr. Kirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll put your attention to this: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021, The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 3 February 2021 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Irina Lazarova, Director of the Department of Agriculture and Industry, Vesela Tsvetkova, Head of the Department of the same Directorate, and Iva Yancheva, Chief Expert in the Directorate of the Agricultural Chains; from the Ministry of Economy: Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy. From the Commission for Protection of Competition: Georgiza Stoyanova, Member of the Committee, and Stamen Grbelov, Director of the Directorate of Unfair competition and abuse of a stronger position in the negotiations. The bill and its motives were presented by Silvana Lyubenova. The proposed bill amends the procedures for obtaining and collecting evidence by introducing additional powers of the Commission for Protection of Competition to carry out unannounced on-the-spot checks and imposes provisional measures. The procedure for the detection of infringements and the imposition of sanctions relating to unfair commercial practices shall be precise and the Commission's decision to refer itself will not be subject to appeal. The relevant property penalties for failure to comply with obligations under the Law are provided for, including an established infringement of absolute or conditional prohibitions. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the Commission's powers and obligations for protection of competition were marked and expressed doubts as to whether it would have the administrative capacity to process all received signals, especially given the possibility for the Commission to refuse production if the case did not fall within the scope of the enforcement priorities. From the parliamentary group of the....... the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.. also noted that despite the efforts, farmers continue to be unprotected in their relations with the large operators who, from the position of force, impose adverse clauses in the treaties and expressed hope that the bill will contribute to limiting these vicious practices. From GERB's parliamentary group stressed that the bill will improve the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition and increase the effectiveness of its control. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the competition law, without the opposition, and 7 votes for the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, No 102-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The current bill, I can say, surprised us because it was introduced at the end of the National Assembly's term of office first. Secondly, the small period and the inappropriate time at which it was submitted for public consultation. The public discussion coincided with New Year's and Christmas holidays when stakeholders and groups are usually engaged in something else and with the closure of the financial year. However, I must say that the two directives, in the part where they are applied and proposed, are essential, albeit late. However, I have a remark and I am against the rest of the legislation which, according to an old Bulgarian tradition, interprets European legislation and Bulgarians it. What do I mean? It proposes to regulate unfair trade practices under the Directive on unfair trade practices as a violation of competition law and creates the competence of the KPC for the investigation. Here I would say that another additional regulatory authority is being established. My question to importers is: who is it necessary with more than 20 committees and agencies performing these functions? If these civil servants from those over 20 agencies do not fulfil their duties, should we not state this and force them to work instead of burdening the KPC with non-military tasks and duties? The unfair commercial practice directive also provides for excessive sanctions of five per cent of the company's sales revenue. Here I would like to say that European antitrust legislation usually provides for even a 10% fine, but this fine is from this product which is subject to unfair competition. I'm setting a simple example right now. If a food chain is used and imposes monopolistic quail eggs from a single producer, I would say that they represent 0.1 hundred thousandth of the total turnover and cannot be punished by 5% of the total turnover. I believe that this is where the proportion between the violation and the punishment should be taken, and that they should be proportionate. There is also an opportunity to carry out unannounced checks on food and agricultural buyers in the event of a suspicion of unfair commercial practice affecting the rights of employees and of the undertaking under investigation without being required by the unfair trade practice directive. Colleagues, I have a feeling that Philip Zlatanov's notebook will be replaced by Julia Nenkova's sudden check-in. I'm sorry to have to put it this way, but this will not be used to combat unfair competition, but to combat competition and uncomfortable political opponents. Perhaps later in time we won't find a hit, but to check it out suddenly. It also rearranges issues from the control of business concentrations in a way that allows the KPC to intervene further in the implementation of a merger and acquisition without clear criteria, under what prerequisites would these powers from the KPC apply to? Here, I can immediately say, to give an example with the KPC, namely the Commission's refusal to allow a waiter to purchase a new TV station and with the same reasons Mr. Domuschiev was allowed to buy it. The two conflicting decisions regarding CEZ and Inercom "Whether it can be purchased or subsequently how it cannot be purchased by "Inercom". Here I could bring in Mr. Mareshki, this distinguished anti-cartel fighter, pragmatist and leader of the Volya party, who claims to have a cartel in fuel, but the verification of the KPC ended with the conclusion that there is no cartel in fuel. The question before me is: who is right? The Vice-President of the National Assembly or the ordinary employees and officials in the KPC? It also restricts the right of access of the parties to the file led by the KPC, which is a prerequisite for breach of their rights of defence. Dear colleagues, in the GPC we have an exchange of documents within certain deadlines. In the PPC, we have a statement of the materials. Here, however, we have a refusal to provide materials. The next thing that also disturbs me is the Commission's mandate, which is increasing from five to seven years, given that it expires now.. I think it is July month. I do not understand why and what are the reasons for this increase for two years, but I intend to make a proposal and hope for your support, namely: given that in five years they have not been able to do anything significant, perhaps this will also happen to the next two Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u120	In what connection could I not understand, Mr. Baychev? Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. Other statements "Mr. Hamid."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, our parliamentary group will support the Bill at first reading. We also believe, as Mr. Baychev, that the transposition of the 2019 Directive, as well as both regulations, part of the 2012 Regulation and the 2017 Regulation, are essential in order to settle these relations, which we have been talking about for ten years, about the poor, unfair commercial practices of large retail chains. Such practices have been established in a number of European countries, colleagues. At last, the European Union has adopted this directive and I will support the bill with which we transpose it. As for Mr. Baychev's comments on this irony about the mandate of the members of the Commission, I find them untenable. I would like to remind him that his mandate was 7 years old and on a purely political, on a personal level, I would say, arguments, the Commission's mandate was shortened only to remove one head of this committee. I am sure that Mr. Baychev remembers these times, so he will draw the appropriate conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will be brief. Firstly, I think it is not right for us to make a summary of what has been done and what the Commission for Protection of Competition has not done, because this is not the Commission's report on the work carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u124	That's right. It's not the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u125	We are looking at the transposition of Directive 2019/1 and the relevant regulations, as Mr Hamid said. We need to focus precisely on the fact that the Commission's powers are increasing here and I think, rightly, in order, firstly, to increase the regulation of competition in the market in Bulgaria, which is part of the European market. We are not just talking about Bulgaria, it is part of a common market. We must respect not the market practices that we observe, which are indeed also the danger, we must help the Commission to collect the relevant evidence so that precisely such practices can be eradicated by Bulgaria. From the point of view of the duration, i.e. the Commission's mandate, as you said, a very strong yes, in the United States is life-saving in order to strengthen the independence of such an authority. Of course, there is no such option in Europe, but there is no mandate as is in Bulgaria. For example, in Romania he is 9 years old, in France he is 9 years old, in Germany he is 9 years old, not to keep listing. The 7-year term was chosen in Bulgaria with this bill, because with us the 9-year-old, as far as I can remember, belongs to the constitutional judges. In the U.S., as I said, it's leveled with the judges, and I mean life-saving judges for their independence. If the KPC makes a wrong decision, there is always a next instance that we can talk about the court, the Supreme Administrative Court, for example, may adjust that decision accordingly. So there's always a subsequent instance that can observe this thing, and I don't see a problem. Of course, between first and second readings, some adjustments can be made, for example, not having two mandates one after the other, to be chosen for one term. This must be assessed, of course, by parliament, after proposals between first and second readings. This is a bill on which, on 4 February, I think, the time for transposition is up. That is, just in time we transpose it and this is a good option so that we can increase the competition in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for a statement. Will there be any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The purpose of the proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition is also to bring national legislation into line with the rules of Directive (EU) 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2017 on unfair commercial practices in relations between operators in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. Directive EU 2019/633 is aimed at overcoming significant imbalances in the negotiating position between suppliers and buyers of agricultural and food products. These imbalances can lead to unfair trade practices where larger and more powerful trading partners are trying to impose certain agreements that are in their favour in food and agricultural sales transactions. In order to achieve those objectives, Directive (EU) 2019/633 provides for measures to protect operators in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. In particular, measures are aimed at protecting operators suppliers that are in a weaker negotiating position and apply to the commercial behaviour of operators buyers who are in a stronger position in this chain. The objectives of the Directive are, on the one hand, to protect agricultural production, which is particularly insecure industry due to dependence on biological processes and weather conditions. This uncertainty is also growing due to the fact that agricultural products are mostly perishable or seasonal. On the other hand, the directive aims to protect farmers and food suppliers from more powerful commercial operators buying these products. I deliberately read this text because you remember, even at the end of the last parliament and at the beginning of this Parliament, we from the BSP parliamentary group submitted almost the same, not to say even more defending the rights and activities of the Bulgarian farmers, proposals in the Food Act. Then, Madam President, you were a member of the Committee on Agriculture and you remember that we made such proposals twice. You told us then that this could not happen, that we need a notification from the European Commission. [[Heckling]] I agree, only that I have been knowingly reading and since when are the directives from 2017 and from 2019. [[Heckling]] Since 2019 and since 2017. I mean, only now.. at the beginning of 2021, you are proposing to me that these directives be implemented by our national legislation. Because it just came up about the huge amounts that have entered, and the prime minister said: more than 3 billion. 100 million. lv. in farmers, let's focus on the Agricultural Report and see. In the Agricultural report on the state and development of agriculture in Bulgaria the registered farmers under Ordinance No 3 in 2017 were 96 thousand. 476, that's about 100,000. In 2020 they are now down to 80 thousand, that is, 20,000 farmers in practice, perhaps because of the failure to implement these directives, we have failed or refused them. Because, colleagues, members of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, you remember how many of the different representatives of the different sectors of Because if they were brought back in 2017, this number of about 20 thousand farmers might today also have been producers. And I say again: the record over 3 billion. 100 million. I quote again the official Agraren report "The last of the Ministry of Agriculture, the state and the development of agriculture in Bulgaria." In the macroeconomic data for the economic sectors, the agricultural sector, the industry, including construction, and the third sector, the agricultural sector of 2015, if it was 4,7% the gross added value, notice, 4,7%, is already below 4% in 2019 and is 3,8%. What's going on? That these record amounts, by the way, about 2 and a half billion per year entered farmers, and last year the prime minister said it was a record 3 billion. 100 million, that is, it turns out that there is a huge amount of money coming in, a huge amount of historical financial resources, but the added value is falling, and it is going down dramatically almost 1% in five years. Where is this money I ask and where is the added value in farmers? In other words, these directives should have been adopted in 2017 and the other one in 2019 and perhaps we wouldn't have these negative results. And lastly, I'll tell you why. Well, because the Agricultural Report is one of the most important to me, I would say the most important because it guarantees the state of the agricultural sector and the food policy of Bulgaria, is not under consideration and is not accepted by the National Assembly. Notice, it is accepted by the Council of Ministers. You remember every year what reports, reports of ministries, agencies, agencies, committees we accept here when there are about 60, 70 deputies who sleep on banks, with an excuse... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We accept I said with an apology we accept these reports and one of the most important reports the Agricultural Report is adopted by the Council of Ministers. If this report was adopted by the National Assembly, all these problems would be discussed here in plenary and we would not have come this far. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Because, in Order No 181, yes, I am on the subject of the Order No 181, which concerns the activities and sites of national security, there first Roman starts with the sector of agriculture, food production and food safety, food storage, food safety control, food production, food storage, food safety control and irrigation systems. Here are your directives. Homeland Security didn't do it. [[Heckling]] Last one. With regard to one of the new powers, which will extend the current powers of the KPC in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, is the right to carry out on-the-spot checks in private premises. For example: homes of directors, managers and other staff members of companies, or of the Association of Enterprises, if there is a reasonable suspicion, I repeat, a reasonable suspicion that in these premises service documents are kept and the KPC has obtained a judicial authorisation to carry out an inspection. In those checks, the search team should have the same powers. It comes out this way which, at the beginning and my colleague Baichev said that there is a great concern instead of a regulatory body to become a repressive body. Because we see some times, very often you, ruling by GERB and by the United Patriarchs, how because of some signals you do checks, bankrupt companies, and then in the court it turns out that there is nothing like that. So I suggest that this text be removed. Let the CDC...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u128	This is the first reading, Mr. Georgiev. It's first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u129	I know it's first reading, Madam President. Let me speak. Colleagues, these are important things.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u130	Ten minutes you're talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u131	We are talking about food policy and the protection of farmers, this is key. That's why I also quoted you as National Security Decree No 181. If we don't feed people our own, Bulgarian, healthy, nutritious food, these are, by the way, the European guidelines, the political guidelines of the Green Deal, of the Strategy from the farm to the table. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But you don't seem to care about that. Thank you for your attention. Madam President, you should have brought order. I understand that colleagues are in a hurry, but these are important things. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u132	I don't think the coworkers are in a hurry. I see everyone's in their seats. [[Noise and lines.]] All right, folks, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 January 2021. They voted 102 MPs: for 85, against 14, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nikolov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u133	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal based on the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to reduce the deadline of three days for proposals under the newly voted law.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u134	Thank you. Back-up offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u135	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I specifically told you and asked you for help because I intend to make a legislative proposal, so I am making a reverse proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm making a seven-day offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u136	I get it, Mr. Baichev. First, I put to the vote Mr. Nikolov's proposal to reduce the deadline. Vote 98 MPs: 79 against 19, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, before I give out the written answers, I suggest that we give the floor to Minister Angelov to be asked the question, because then there is a meeting. I will give the written answers after the reply of Minister Angelov and I will give the floor for a declaration of the group of BSP for Bulgaria. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov. He is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on the implementation of an explanatory campaign for vaccination against COVID-19. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Angelov, I will read the question verbatim from the fact that last time you had some difficulties in the way in which I put the questions to be stalled, as I wrote them to the President of the Assembly, but in the supplementary questions I will express my attitude to the problem in general. The groups targeted for vaccination related to the CoVID-19 pandemic were identified. My question is: how far has the first group been prepared? What is the number of requests requested in relation to the total number of the group disclosed? How is the explanatory campaign related to the specific vaccination programme developing? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, answer the question that is asked, and it is: how is the explanatory campaign on vaccination against COVID-19 in Bulgaria developing?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u139	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov! In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The National vaccination plan against COVID-19 in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision No 896 of 7 December 2020 of the Council of Ministers, described the implementation of a targeted communication campaign. In the Unified Information Portal, there is a developed module "Vaccins vs. COVID-19". It contains all the information available in the world on vaccines against COVID-19 that are authorised for use within the European Union. The module contains sections of the most frequently asked questions from patients and doctors; scientific journals from editions with an inpack factor; official information from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the World Health Organization, the European Commission, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention of the United States and other current statistics, videos and useful links. Very soon this module will become a mobile application. It will be compatible with both iOS and Android operating systems and each of you can install it on your phones. We are waiting for solutions from the two world companies. In addition, through the chatbot of the most used mobile chat platform in Bulgaria, we share in a timely manner everything related to the delivery of vaccines, vaccination campaign and current news for a species of vaccines. On our idea, the head of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases introduced media representatives to the characteristics of the three types of vaccines against COVID-19, information RNA, adenovirus and antigenic. Prof. Kantardzhiev delivered an online lecture in an accessible language, which is already uploaded on the Facebook page of the Ministry of Health, in Youtube channel of the Ministry of Health, as well as in the module "Vaccins against COVID-19" of coronavirus.bg. The sentiment and information presented by the head of the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases was reflected in a number of media. In the face of the media we meet a responsible partner in connection with the information campaign for vaccination against COVID-19. We continue regular formal and informal meetings with media representatives. Thanks to their expert and professional assistance, adequate information about vaccines and messages about the benefits of vaccination reach more and more people in Bulgaria. One of the national televisions launched a specialized section of the COVID-19 vaccines, where every Tuesday the spectators will receive answers to the questions: what do we know about approved vaccines against COVID-19 Contraindications, side effects, durability, immunization saves lives, what is its effect in the context of the newly discovered mutations of the virus. We continue on the road and I believe that Bulgarian citizens will be the most informed citizens in the European Union and I stand behind these words. Another of our key partners is the Representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria. With our assistance, they are developing a special information campaign on Facebook in the form of video content, where already vaccinated doctors and nurses talk about the benefit of vaccination against COVID-19. We also work together with Google to create an interactive map, which will mark all vaccination centers in the country. It will be part of the platform of the world-famous company for fast access of citizens to places where they can be vaccinated. Marked on the map will be created up to now 276 immunization points in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. For a cue, Mr. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Angelov, two are indicators that suggest indirectly and directly what is the effect of the action of, as you called it, a communication campaign, and as we offered you two months ago, an explanatory campaign. One is the number of people who want to be vaccinated. He hasn't moved for a month and a half. These are the data of sociologists who are constantly showing them on national television, the second is the number of vaccinated people. The statistics are in front of me, they're in front of you. We're in the last place. Even if we take your explanation the so-called conservative approach of the Bulgarian government in the implementation of the vaccines, and multiply them by two, since we have kept the second dose, we will still reach from the last pre-, pre-last place, these modest calculations I have done just now. Thank God, I would like to comment on your statement that all the information in the information portal was not included, because it would have made it extremely difficult for Bulgarian citizens, things have been served, I have carefully examined them all week, but the main questions that this explanatory campaign has to answer and it has not answered yet, first of all, what is the effect of vaccines on the individual population groups, with many wound groups? You're a professional doctor, you're not a financier, and you know that these are oncological patients with autoimmune diseases with various other severe accompanying diseases. Secondly, how are the vaccines cut as effectiveness? The Lancet just published the most authentic medical journal in the world that the Sputnik vaccine, for which we were the first to address you, has 92% efficiency and immune response... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is a very important matter, Madam President. If you interrupt me now, it would be in the best interest of the nation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u142	Of course not. Just to remind you that time has passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u143	...and that immunity according to the data published in The Lancet, and The Lancet does not publish data frivolously, will last much longer than a few months. Thirdly, the BSP raised the question a long time ago: how was the Bulgarian preference of vaccines carried out? Because the explanation that everything is being decided by the European Commission turned out not to be true. We suddenly got here in a dark vote for Johnson and Johnson, a respected worldwide firm that we initially refused. Now it turns out she's one of the most targeted at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u144	The question?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u145	And last but not least... That's not a question, that's a comment to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u146	Yeah, but it's been over three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u147	They're up, I get it. I asked you quite correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u148	And I'm asking you to get right to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u149	And the last question that you put yourself, which I think logically, but I would like to hear your opinion as a professional, is now starting to speak to the Staff on vaccinations for retargeting target groups, but not only for the committee participants, but also for other groups of the population. All these questions are very important, Professor Angelov. The Ministry of Health and all the structures that have been created so much must respond to the nation with them in order for the Bulgarian people to be calm in this situation, which we are in the last place, and we are also in the last places to study the sick for COVID-19. These data are in front of me from statistics, so that the Bulgarian nation can be truly calm that it is adequately cared for under such a severe pandemic. Thank you, Madam President, and for listening to me to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u150	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, from my meetings that I do everywhere in the country with patients and doctors, everyone is extremely calm. I don't know where you get the idea or the conclusion that people are restless. On the contrary, they say the opposite. With regard to the answers you have sought, what is the effect of vaccines on the individual target groups of the population that you have listed, all the information available so far in science is given in the Annex, which I told you in the field of............................................................................ Do not expect the Ministry of Health to come up with answers or to give answers such as science has not yet come up with and the producers have not uploaded in the Summary of Product Characteristics since this is unprofessional, and I am not used to acting unprofessionally. How was the Bulgarian choice of vaccines made? Long and wide in this room I explained how the Bulgarian choice of vaccines happened. Then, when we explained how many vaccines we chose, why we chose them, how we chose them, you from this tribune explained to me how many vaccines we chose that they would remain and this is a short-sighted solution for Bulgaria. In terms of retargeting target groups. I understand that from you. Retargeting target groups is not currently being carried out, we had no intention of doing so. Only the Central Election Commission has put before us who they believe are the exposed Bulgarian citizens who are involved in the election process. I believe that this is a national responsible behaviour. This is what we have done - we have changed the vaccination plan and we have given these people the right to participate in vaccination as they want to preserve their lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let us thank the Minister of Health for participating in today's parliamentary control. Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev 10 questions from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Evdokiya Asenova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Interior Hristo Terziyski on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to two questions by the National Representative Desislav Taskov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov on a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. No new requests have been received for the period from 29 January 4 February 2021. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u153	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The next four years have passed since the reform of the National System for Physical Education and Sport, but unfortunately, instead of progress, today we are forced to recognise that the system is in an extremely deep resource, functional and representative crisis. Bulgaria is the only country in Europe that, I would say, has made political and not professional reforms in its sports system, which, by a leader, have made it an outsider of the international and Olympic sports level. It is obvious the need for urgent decisive reforms if our state and society want to restore and develop national sports prestige. The weaknesses of the system at present are a function mainly of extremely ineffective political and social practice. There are formal elements of school and youth sports, sports in leisure time. The system of selection and selection of sports talents has been destroyed. The scope and effectiveness of university sports are not comparable to that of the Balkan countries in Europe and close to us. Physical education and sports do not develop optimally among the various social groups of the country's population. Unsatisfying is the level of the teenage generations, in crisis is the racing sport, limited is the professional-applied sport. Too far from European standards is the sport in the free time of citizens whose main purpose is health, vitality and disease prevention. High sports craftsmanship and the Olympic performance of Bulgarian athletes are systematically deteriorating. Here, for information, I will give you an example of the Seoul Olympics when we are in seventh place in the world's won gold medals, and from Rio de Janeiro 2016, we are already going and splitting 65th place 66th. In the age of globalisation and scientific and technical progress we returned to the sports sector in the years of simple reproduction, characteristic of countries without sports history and traditions. The activities of sports organizations, especially the effectiveness of sports schools such as specialized schools, were extremely badly compromised. Physical upbringing and sports in the educational system are greatly underestimated. They are not seen as an important part of the educational and professional training from the primary, middle educational degree, and especially in the system of university education. Individual good practices of schools and universities do not change the overall critical state of the system. The organisation and effectiveness of practical activities with motor activity and sport are at a mediocre level. The elite of university sports in our country no longer exists. Scientifically applied activity in sport at national and especially municipal level is neglected. In practice, our country does not have the capacity to apply modern scientific and technological achievements in the sport methodology. A highly centralized regulation of sport has been passed on to a practice that has long been denied in the vast majority of sports developed European countries and in the IOC, UNESCO and the Council of Europe's sports charters. In many municipalities, the sports sector is below the threshold of its organizational and functional survival. In practice, the public interests of the state and sports organisations registered for public benefit have been damaged. Professional activities aimed at improving the organisation, management and methodology of sports preparation at all levels are transformed into business relations and defending private economic interests. Over the years, national strategies and programmes for sport development have not been implemented, have not been analysed and timely corrective action has not been adopted. In terms of the degree of participation of citizens in sports activities Bulgaria is at the last place from the European countries, according to Eurostat data. Most of our nation has no habits for systemic motor activity. The mass sport in Bulgaria has not become a powerful factor in preventing diseases, strengthening health and social integration of disadvantaged people, as well as representatives of individual ethnic groups. There was a strong detructuring of former effective sports centers, independent sports clubs on the basis of the coach club. At present, nearly 5000 sports clubs are registered in the country, working mainly in the field of paid sports services, and a small part of the professional clubs in sports games. This causes structural problems in the age aspect of entire sports, and hence to a very limited number of effective sports organizations and the preparation of talented athletes for national and Olympic teams of the country. All this after the 10-year management of GERB. What does BSP suggest? Establishment of mechanisms for wide access to sports facilities and places for sport practice in every settlement; establishment of uniform standards for sports infrastructure at national and local level; establishment of a national monitoring system for measuring and evaluating the motor fitness and health status of the Bulgarian population; establishment of a coordination structure for cooperation between the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health, municipalities and school and university structures; development and implementation of a national programme for scientific provision of sport and restoration of centres for Olympic training of elite athletes; establishment of regional sports advices to work together with municipalities, sports organisations, schools, universities and other state structures. Finally, but not least, what are the conclusions, ladies and gentlemen? Sport is another unreformed sector during your third management. Even the objectives and measures envisaged by the management have not been met. Report on the election program of GERB in 2017. A, as we know, in sport is so, is there no results, follow changes in coaching headquarters, administrations and guides. Our proposed change of management model also concerns sport. The motto of the National Sports Academy says there's no way. You obviously didn't realize the social importance of sport, but there is another dimension here. I will allow myself to rephrase the words of legendary manager Bill Shenckley: "Sport is not a matter of life and death, it is much more. " - I am sure that in exactly two months you will have all the time in the world to think about these words. Until then, fellow Members, play sports to meet sustainable changes that are to come. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova will answer a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin about repair and completion of the road from the village of Strumiani to the Border Control Post. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This question is yet another matter on this subject. In the line, maybe I'll say a little more. I just want to ask, Mrs. Avramova, at what stage is the repair and completion of the Bulgarian section of the road from the highway from Struma. And to ask again: is there an indicative date for completion of the activities and the opening of the new border crossing point with the Republic of Northern Macedonia? Let's hope there are more serious developments in the years. Sooner or later, 30 years later, this point can be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, the transport link to the planned border control post for construction of the border with the Republic of Northern Macedonia is carried out through Republic Road III-1008 /I-1 /Strumyani In 2018, preventive repairs were carried out on the third-class road, covering kilometers from 0+000 to 22 km. With the implementation of the preventive repair significantly improved the performance of road III-1008 in those areas. In the rest of the third-class road after 22 km, it is necessary to implement a new construction. In this connection, in June 2020, the Road Infrastructure Agency opened a public contract for the selection of a contractor for the development of a technical rehabilitation project and a preliminary project for the completion of a section of the third-class road III-1008 Strumyani The public contract provides for the development of a technical project for rehabilitation of the section from km 0+000 to km 0+650 (before a road node of highway The project will include solutions to restore the performance of the section, increase the road surface performance and improve drainage. In the section of km 22+000 before a road deviation for the village of Kolibita, until the start of the site of the Border Post, on road III-1008 is planned to develop an idea project for the construction of the new route. Based on the design of the project, the technical route approved by the competent authorities and the detailed development plan will be drawn up for the purpose of fielding the completion of the road. The contract is to be concluded with the selected contractor with a bid price of 896 thousand. £280. with VAT, the time limit for the implementation of the service is 150 calendar days. The contractor will have to carry out geodetic measurements, present a situational and levelling solution on the future route, ideas projects for the new facilities, constructive investigation of existing facilities with a design solution for carrying out the necessary repair and reconstruction works, carrying out engineering and geology studies and project preparation. At the next stage, public procurement will also be announced for the selection of a contractor for construction and construction supervision. Regarding your second question about the indicative date for the completion of the activities and the opening of the new border crossing point, I inform you that the MRB, the Directorate of Territorial Cooperation and the Managing Authority, is in the process of developing a Programme document for cross-border cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia for the period 2021 - 2027, with a source of co-financing Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. As a result of the studies and regional consultations conducted with local communities on both sides of the border, a strategic infrastructure project for the development of the cross-border region was presented.The project was designed to build a new border control post between the municipalities of Strumyani and Berovo. According to the negotiation process with the European Commission under the Programme, the project is expected to be implemented in the period of eligibility of expenditure for 2021. With the implementation of the two sites, a new point of entry and a new road infrastructure will achieve greater connectivity between the two countries, facilitate transport flow and exchange of goods, as well as economic development of border areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u158	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs Avramova, dear colleagues! I expected a slightly more optimistic response, since this topic, to tell you, I have been following it for years. Here I have taken out all the questions I have asked on the subject, starting from 2014 to the Prime Minister I have a question. The then speaker of parliament did not stop all the questions until Boyko Borisov, so we discussed this topic with him in December 2014; with Daniel Mitov the then Minister of Foreign Affairs; with Lilyana Pavlova also in 2014; then 2017 with Ekaterina Zaharieva as Foreign Minister; with you, Mrs Avramova, July 2019. And now in January 2021, when, frankly, I expected that we were already going towards finalising this project, which, among other things, was included as one of the priority infrastructure projects between the two governments after signing the Good Neighborhood Treaty, you are telling me what? I just want you to clarify. I understand the Programme Period 2021 "2027." Can you still point to this, though your mandate expires: when, in the course of these seven years, from 2021 to 2027, do you think that Bulgaria will be ready with this project, because everything was actually done 15 years ago from the Macedonian side? Here, of course, you have no personal responsibility for this delay. But in the end, after all this time, when a project is declared a priority and when it is key in demonstrating some new policy, new relations between the two countries, it turns out that for years now we continue to delay, delay and I do not know what funds we are saving, provided that some things, when considering the priority of such a project, are not always the most important is the price and effect that is achieved. In this case, we have very important political issues that we need to achieve with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. If you could say about the deadlines a little more specifically, according to your judgment, and really make sure that there is better connectivity between the two sides and between the people on both sides of the border, which in fact many of them are practically related. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vigenin, it is a fact that the process of realizing this project and discovering a border checkpoint has started. Within 150 days this is the design period, there will be a project available and the implementation can be traded, i.e. real construction. The best thing about this case is that a source of funding has already been identified. You know that the funds that are in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency are not endless. On the contrary, they're limited. So we are looking for maximum opportunities in all European programmes and opportunities with European and budget resources to build the infrastructure in Bulgaria, so the process is irreversible. After the preparation of the project the procedure for construction will be announced and will be applied for funding. This is one of the priority ones that we have defined, together with the competent institutions of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, that this will be the priority project that will be financed by both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u162	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the question for Minister Avramova. Let us thank her for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva. The first question is the MP Alexander Matsurev on the allocation of funds for maintaining employment and supporting business in the conditions of COVID-19 in Blagoevgrad region. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the resources allocated to maintaining employment in support of the business in the conditions of COVID-19 in Blagoevgrad region. Dear Minister, in the last year our country's socio-economic system has faced unprecedented difficulties caused by the restrictions that the world pandemic of COVID-19 imposed. In relation to them, the government in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy created extraordinary measures to support business and maintain employment in the disadvantaged sectors. I appeal to you with a request for information on the allocations under the exceptional measures 60/40, 80/20 and 75/0 in Blagoevgrad region. How many companies are supported by the measures in the municipalities in Blagoevgrad region and what is the value of the allocated funds? As a result of the implementation of these measures, how many jobs are reserved in Blagoevgrad by municipalities and what measures will be implemented in 2021 to support business and maintain employment in 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u164	Thank you, dear Matsurev. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sacheva answered. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, measures to preserve jobs during the emergency situation and the emergency epidemic situation known as 60/40, 80/20 and 75/0, have reached all areas, including Blagoevgrad district. For the period from April 2020 to 21 January 2021, 1412 employers from the district received a total of 18.7 million. lv. for all measures to preserve the employment of more than 12 thousand employees or 8.8% of the employees in Blagoevgrad region. The measures implemented have helped to prevent a sharp increase in unemployment in the area. The registered unemployed persons at the labour desks at the end of 2020 were 16.3 thousand. Without the measures, the unemployment rate would have been a two-digit percentage. In 2021 the region of Blagoevgrad will receive the most funds for the Regional Employment Programme, namely 782 thousand. 105 BGN. within the framework of the National Employment Action Plan. The financing of the Plan this year is 83 million. lv. and employment will be provided to almost 15 000 unemployed persons and to 11 600 for training and for acquiring professional qualifications and key competences. In 2021, the measure 60/40 was financed by 600 million to maintain an average monthly average of around 120 thousand jobs. At the end of last year, financial support under measure 80/20 for enterprises and self-insuring persons was increased to 80 million, with this measure maintaining the employment of about 30 thousand people in transport and tourism. Last but not least, according to the measure 75/0 up to this point, until January 24 BGN. A day, they received 41,000 workers who received their compensation with a financial resource of 50 million. lv. and this will provide funds for around 33 thousand persons employed in the sectors which are temporarily discontinued. A financial resource of 160 million is also expected. lv. under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" to continue its implementation of the operation "Entrepreneurship for you" "Entrepreneurship for at least 35,000 employees." I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will help businesses and workers not only during this difficult period, but will continue to support the recovery of economic growth and the creation of new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Mr. Matsurev, come in for a line. You won't have a line. Thank you. We move on to the second issue by the National Representative Alexander Matsurev on the allocation of funds in support of parents whose children study remotely and do not have the opportunity to take paid leave. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about grants in support of parents. Dear Minister, due to the exceptional epidemic situation introduced in the country because of the pandemic of CIVID-19, the passage of distance training for Bulgarian students was required to limit the spread of the virus. In relation to them, the government in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has created the possibility of monthly targeted support for families with children up to 14 years of age who study remotely or do not go to school and kindergarten because of quarantine, in case both or one of the working parents cannot work remotely from home or are unable to take paid leave. I appeal to you with a request for information on the funds allocated to the target support in Blagoevgrad region. Please provide information by municipalities: how many families are supported and what is the value of the allocated funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u168	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. For your answer, Madam Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, the monthly support measure for families whose children have to study remotely has been changed several times before they can reach a maximum circle of people and extend the scope so as to ease access to it. Specially on 29 January 2021, a total of 5492 applications for monthly targeted aid were adopted in 3888 orders were issued and 1285 refusal orders were issued. Paid on 29 January 2021 "Primary Assigned Aids under Art. 16b of the Rules for the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act amount to 3 million. 343 thousand. £884. for 3722 families distributed as follows: Directorate of Social Assistance 552 lv. for 712 families; Directorate of Social Assistance BGN 163. for 997 families; Directorate of Social Assistance Eight hundred and eighty. for 366 families; Directorate of Social Assistance Eight hundred and eighty. for 601 families; Directorate of Social Assistance BGN 816. for 513 families; Directorate of Social Assistance £720. for 419 families, and the Directorate of Social Assistance BGN 473. For 114 families. The adoption of documents and the granting of aid continues at the moment. It will continue until the end of the school year. The monthly average amount received by the families of the aid is about 900 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, Mr. Matsurev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, my line relates to the fact that I want to thank you for your information. It's really a lot of work. Thank you for all that the Ministry of Labour is doing at these difficult times for our country under the conditions of the pandemic, the government's efforts are serious and for this reason it is evident that all this is for one purpose Thank you for your answers, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u172	Thank you, dear Matsurev. We move on to the third and final question to Minister Sacheva. Question from MP Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krusteva on measures taken in relation to COVID-19. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u173	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, Minister of Foreign Affairs Sacheva! According to a reference from the Regional Employment Service in January this year in Haskovo region are newly registered 1182 unemployed of them 38.6% are from the service sector; 22.1% of the industry; 4.1% of the agricultural sector; and 35.1% are from the undetermined industry. In December 2020, 6486 unemployed were registered at the labour offices of the district. Only 203 of them got a new job during the month. My questions are as follows: what measures have been taken for enterprises and companies that do not work because of the restrictive measures for COVID-19; how many people have been assisted by your ministry; what is the amount of the funds paid, is there any paid-out aid to parents absent from work due to the remote training of their children?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nivva, during the emergency situation and the emergency epidemic situation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has developed and implemented a number of measures for both keeping jobs and helping families. In the period from April 2020 to January 2021, around 300 employers in the district of Haskovo received 12.9 million. lv. to maintain the employment of 7709 workers and employees, or 7.7% of employed persons in the area. The measures implemented have helped to prevent a sharp increase in unemployment in the area. The registered unemployed persons at the Bureau of Labour at the end of 2020 for the whole area were 6486, without the measures the unemployment rate would have been significantly more, probably a two-digit number. On 31 December 2020, 900 single-aid applications for 1004 students were approved on the territory of Haskovo District, enrolled in the VIII grade of the state or municipal school to cover part of the expenditure from the beginning of the school year 2020. You know that this aid was introduced for the first time in this school year. And for the next school year, this help will be without an income test, so that all primary students and all eighth graders will be able to receive 300 BGN to cover their training costs. By the end of 2020, 1.2 million were also paid. lv. monthly targeted aid for a total of 1454 families with children up to the age of 14 under declared emergency or emergency epidemic situation. The same period was paid and 33,8 thousand. lv. One-off aid to 90 families with working mothers and fathers who look after their children students up to the 7th grade and who during this period have no opportunity to receive other incomes. And in this year we will continue with measures to support business and job creation, with the total financial resource being over 800 million. lv. European and national funding. The specific district of Haskovo will receive 375 thousand. BGN 916. for the implementation of a regional employment programme under the National Employment Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u177	Dear Minister, the figures you have pointed out do not satisfy me, as you have indicated 900 applications for 1,300 single aid students. My question was about overcoming the situation with COVID-19. And this amount that you pointed out and these figures, they are a one-time contribution that students receive on another basis. So the other figures that you have pointed out, in my opinion, cannot overcome and be effective help to the people, to the citizens who are currently in this situation. I ask you to fulfill all your commitments by the end of the term of office, because it is approaching.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Would you like to use the back? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Niva, I propose to give you the written text and the numbers that I have read, because maybe we didn't understand each other. The aid for the VIII class has been introduced precisely now and precisely in relation to a horse because you know that they have been returned to a class of over 40 thousand children, namely because of the need to learn remotely much of them did not have this opportunity and we have probably lost them again for the education system. So as an incentive for them to go back to class, we introduced this aid to the eighth grade, that is, it is directly related to a horse. But I also read that 1454 families with children up to the age of 14 received 1 million. 200,000. lv. monthly targeted aid. The average monthly aid is about 900 BGN. So in Haskovo region, as well as not only in Haskovo district, but in all areas of Bulgaria we have done what is necessary to support, on the one hand, employment, but on the other hand, families and will continue to support families on this assistance by the end of the school year. The numbers are here, I can give them to you so you can have them. [[Mister Denitsa Sacheva provides the MP Smilyana Niva with the information.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Sacheva. Have a good job! The next questions are to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. The first question is from the MP Smilyana Niva-Krusteva about purchased devices in connection with online training. Mrs. Krasteva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u181	Dear Mr. Simeonov! Dear Minister, the state has granted 14 million. lv. for the purchase of electronic devices for the training of students. It is announced that by January 2021 the supply of 90% of the laptops that schools will buy for students and teachers with the money allocated by the cabinet is expected. My questions are as follows: How many devices have been purchased with the 14 million allocated by the State. lv. And how many of them are scheduled for the Haskovo region? How many students remain outside distance training in the field due to lack of technical security? How will they be trained and evaluated?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u182	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u183	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Niva, you have already addressed in your question one of the sources of financing the purchase of notebooks and tablets for the purpose of e-learning. This is additionally provided 14 million. lv. from the Council of Ministers, with which more than 16,000 devices will be purchased. They are planned for 16,000, but perhaps some of the schools, reaching lower prices, will buy more devices. From spring to date, nearly 27,000 devices have been purchased, mostly notebooks. This is under the National Programme............................................. and in December we provided the schools to support delegated budgets an additional 15 million. BGN, which, according to our information, between 5.6 million were used to purchase additional devices for the purpose of e-learning. In addition, 70 million were foreseen. lv. under the European Union Instrument REACT-EU, which will buy at least 80 thousand devices. However, these funds are linked to longer procedures both at European and national level, a change in the Operational Programme, it was only made last week. It is important to note that all of these devices that are purchased and will be purchased will not be used only for the purpose of e-learning at a distance, but at least 5 years ahead for e-learning in classrooms, schools. There was, of course, a dilemma whether to purchase more devices in view of the short-term goal of providing access to more students, or to buy more functional devices. Rather, the second decision was chosen, the requirements for these devices, or at least in relation to those 16 thousand I told you about, is to be a student type laptop. What does that mean? These are portable computers with a reinforced housing so that they are not susceptible to easy damage, with a long autonomous battery use mode, at the same time able to be used as tablets, i.e. to write on the screen and as laptops. What happens, we observe it in other countries, and most countries choose notebooks, I would almost say there is a withdrawal from tablets. Tablets are generally far less functional for learning than laptops. With REACT-EU funds will also be purchased mainly such student-type laptops. With regard to Haskovo region for 531 devices is financed their purchase from schools, 507 are delivered, 24 are to be delivered. At the moment we have a global supply problem, especially on such student types of laptops, but yet by January a very large part of the supply has been made. Separately, all the other sources I told you about, the schools have purchased or provided them with 756 devices, and I am speaking in Haskovo region. That's the difference between the 16 and 27 grand I told you about. In December, when all children were training in an electronic environment, nearly 800 devices provided schools for the temporary use of students. January's less than a month. We didn't have information gathered in January, but, you know, from I to IV class were in attendance training. We increased the school year as an opportunity and five schools in Haskovo region with nearly 600 students chose not to conduct training in December, but so-called project activities. The aim of these project activities is still to have activities. That means five schools with nearly 600 students will be studying in July.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u184	Get it over with, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u185	In the spring 2980 were students who did not study from a distance in an electronic environment. Now, according to the information we've collected, it's 710. Then it was 12.7%, and now it's 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u187	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, but I did not receive an answer to the last of my questions: How will children who do not have technical means be trained and evaluated? I can tell you that in some settlements in Haskovo region there is no Internet coverage. After what you announced that the school year will continue until a certain date of June: will the children catch up on the material scheduled for the relevant school year?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u188	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u189	Thank you. As you've seen, the percentage of children who didn't participate has been down nearly four times. One reason is that early students this year have not studied less than in previous years. Yes, there was a three-week interruption, but, as I told you, we gave you the opportunity to compensate in June. On the other hand, and previous years, we had a break in the learning process was because of school trips due to flu vacations, but then it was a real break, i.e. 100% of the students. With regard to those students who told you that they were not covered, this does not mean that they were not performed as a pedagogical interaction. By the way, in the spring, when we had 10 These are the students who are usually very difficult to cover in the educational system, to secure their regular visits, to engage them with the educational process. These are students who have less than 50% attendance during the attendance process and who still accumulate deficits. Yes, at the moment, these deficits are more, i.e. those students should be dealt with as much as possible in June, along the lines of overcoming educational difficulties and restoring attendance training. What is the difference between those who have not been trained in an electronic environment from a distance and those who have not been trained at all? The difference is that others have received tasks, controlled their performance, teachers have interacted with them very often over the phone. By the way, these numbers do not show that one part of the students who are more motivated to study have studied, although due to lack of sufficient technical collateralisation most often via smartphones, which is not effective On the other hand, we have children with devices, yet they haven't studied, but they've declared that they don't have devices. So we have economic reasons, but for our observations, by our calculations over 60% of the reasons are not socio-economic, but socio-cultural, that is, they are permanently valid regardless of the form of training. Teachers will do their best to compensate for educational difficulties. They are doing so in relation to these children anyway and, again, I say, has not gone without time and without any pedagogical interaction. The most problematic remain the children from a high school stage in terms of the percentage of attendance training. But even there, at least students are disillusioned with learning only 2% are those who have not been trained. Because older students themselves have developed self - learning habits, it is not necessary for a parent to be involved in their studies at home as with young students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u190	Thank you, Mr. Valchev. The next question is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova about the activities of the Director of Primary School Nikola Vaptsarov. Mrs. Anastasova, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! As Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science, I was approached by a group of teachers from the School of Primary School. With the problems they pose, you are also familiar, Mr. Minister, as the signal says, and the Regional Management of Education, Plovdiv, and the Syndicate of Bulgarian Teachers. As a result of some of the signals, checks have been carried out by the Regional Government in Plovdiv, respectively there are protocols, prescriptions, which, however, concern mainly the work of the teachers, but not the Director. As a result, I quote the signal from my colleagues: The effect of the signals was methodical support for two months of high school teachers. After such results of the checks Ms. Temelkova gained a sense of unpunishedness. It is above the law and above the legal provisions. As a former long-standing school director, I am puzzled how many of the problems that are quoted by colleagues in this signal can occur. How is Mrs. Temelkova allowed, for example, to receive a 2019 award under the rules for determining the salaries of directors? The chronology is as follows: On September 3rd, she signed a contract to repair the heating room at the school for nearly 30,000. lv. On 7 November 2019 he personally declared to the Regional Government that there was a financial opportunity to pay such a prize, and on 29 November he wrote to the mayor of Asenovgrad 20 days later that no funds would be paid in the school budget for December 2019. Staff salaries are paid from the 2020 budget, respectively. I wonder: how much a director must have forgotten and how much he should be allowed by the Regional Government to forget himself in order not to pay additional wage for the results achieved...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u192	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u193	I'm graduating. ...for 2019, as well as no agreed payments under the Collective Labour Contract for the three years in which he is director? My question to you is: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the cited case; what is the assessment of the Ministry of Education and Science on the checks carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science on the case; what is the assessment of the Ministry of Education for the checks carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science on the case; do you think that after all the facts Ms. Temelkova performs her professionally and respectfully duties as Director? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u194	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u195	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, before answering specific questions, if I may, a little introduction to the school profile and the context of such cases. The school is classified as a school with the highest concentration of children from vulnerable groups, a V classification group that we have in the Financing Regulation. This means that over 80% of parents have lower education than average, one of them does not even have primary education, that is, these are the most difficult students who are most difficult to include in the educational system, for which daily work is required by the pedagogical collective, from the other institutions, from mediators. So this is one of the most difficult schools in the town of Asenovgrad and in the district. However, the school must be supported and it is supported by additional funding for schools with concentration of children from vulnerable groups................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Director has also appointed two educational mediators who are very useful in this activity. The school's total budget is 2.1 million. I mean, you can't say that...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u196	Mr. Minister, proceed to answer the questions. It's been half your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u197	The school must be supported and it is supported, but when we have a reduction in students, and in recent years what we have seen is the biggest reduction of such schools precisely because of the increased mobility of children and families of Roma origin. The school has a reduced number of students and this is the reason for the more cautious spending of the budget. For example, at the end of last year at a pedagogical council or a general meeting of the collective, it is decided not to pay any additional remuneration, there is a letter in this area. That's what this is about. I'll give it to you afterwards. Over 60% of the collective have signed it. Where teachers do not receive additional remuneration, no additional remuneration shall be paid by the Director. In the case of 2019, nearly 70 directors have been awarded in Plovdiv region, including the school director Nikola Vaptsarov, but the salaries you quoted have been paid. Many schools pay salaries at the beginning of next month for the corresponding month and that is what you mention as a problem. There have been temporary financial difficulties, which at the moment are rather overcome, but the cautious policy continues. With regard to the management style of the director, it is very difficult to say whether the director has made enough effort to strengthen the collective, the atmosphere of work. It's a matter of inspection. Neither I nor you should be prejudiced in any case. The Head of the Regional Government has made numerous inquiries. I will provide you with all the material, the protocol of what they have given me. My impression is that we rather have professional impartiality in the checks. The fact is that in many cases long-term reception and writing of signals is because of interpersonal relations. I can't imagine it's because of that, but I think it's more like both cases. We have an unprofessional attitude, on the one hand, on the other hand, we also have insufficient efforts to deal with this problem on the part of the Director. The collective must unite, the prescriptions, the methodical support that you mentioned to the Head of Regional Government, has been given, needs it. That doesn't mean it's unnecessary and the signals are passed. [[the President signals that time has run out]] On the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I've asked you a lot of questions in these four years, and I can tell when you believe what you say and when you don't. I think you're not convinced of what you're saying. I speak frankly and openly. You cannot explain that the collective must be united. Well, the collective must be united, of course, but who unites the collective? Thirteen years I've been the principal of a school and I know this isn't easy, but the collective comes up with arguments, with professionalism, with good attitude, with honesty and integrity, and that's the only way it can be done. That's not in this school. I met not one and two, I was surprised at first. I don't know these people. And back in the day, when I was explaining a completely different approach to the principal of another Plovdiv school, you accused me of being on a party line. These people are neither party members nor sympathizers. They've been to you, to the mayor, to the district governor, to the regional government, they're people professionals, and we shouldn't be taking everything out on a personal basis. I demand a thorough examination of the school principal's activities for the period when this lady was the principal. And if this complex check is done professionally, according to objective criteria, I am convinced that you will find extremely many gaps. We cannot talk about uniting the collective when part of the collective against itself sees a lack of professionalism and a position of the kind: I am the director, I say. But it is, but it's not done that way. And when you're a professional, and when you know what you're doing, [[the President signals that time has run out]] , things work out differently. So, I repeat, I insist, Mr. Minister, it is your right, of course, but my insistence is to do a complex inspection, to see things deeper, there are exceptional professionals there. I've seen people face to face, and as a professional, I'm telling you they're decent people and they're miles away from school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Minister, will you use your coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u201	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Anastasova, by the way, what I neglected to say is that a letter was also sent to the mayor of the municipality of Asenovgrad as a primary officer to carry out a comprehensive financial check. I will provide you with the report that the Regional Education Management has given me. I dare say he's been under a lot of control. The previous school year 16 visits were carried out with regard to attendance between 40 and 60% attendance. Apparently, the school didn't make it. Thirteen checks last school year, one part of which was training in an electronic environment. Almost all the things you mention in your question are checked with little exception, for which no signals have been received. I'm committed to doing a check by the Ministry of Education, not by the Regional Government, but the fact is that we shouldn't be prejudiced when we've only heard one side. The principle: I have heard from them this, the others, if you listen to them, you will see that they also have their truth. Therefore, it must be dealt with impartially. I also read some things on your signal that maybe the mediators were selling the snacks I don't know where. Such things cannot be thrown lightly as an accusation to anyone. I accept your suggestion to carry out such an inspection. Obviously, the problem with the division of the collective continues there, but, again, I am telling you that a large part of the collective stands behind the principal of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u202	Thank you, Minister, for your participation. Enjoy your work.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u203	Declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u204	Speech outside the discussion agenda on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers! As the election campaign approaches, it is normal that the time of the National Assembly and this highest tribune should be used for political purposes in which political forces should campaign and turn to their voters, but it is important that this be done using facts as well. It is precisely from GERB's parliamentary group that we will refer to the following facts: The three governments of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov have so far invested nearly 500 million. lv. in sports facilities. The new halls that we have built, as well as those that have been reconstructed, already meet the highest world standards and can accept competitions of the highest rank. No one else, colleagues, has done such a thing, and I would ask my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party to take a little walk around the country and to see the sports sites built at least in the country, in Shumen, in Plovdiv, in Ruse, to see there and to ask who built these sports sites. That's certainly not BSP. Boyko Borisov made a commitment to catching up with previous governments in the last 25 years and did so. Colleague Chenchev hadn't prepared himself and said a lot of false things. One of them was that our central model of national sports policy is unknown, foreign to developed countries. Nothing to do with the facts, colleagues. There are indeed different models of national sports policy and its implementation, but our model, which is applied in Bulgaria, is applied in countries such as France, Spain, Poland, Hungary, Portugal and Belgium. We have established Bulgaria as an excellent organizer of international competitions of the highest rank of world and European championships and cups, Olympic qualifications and other significant sporting events. The new Law on Physical Education and Sports changed the philosophy of the law in force before that. There are quite interesting innovations in it: - professional leagues can be organised for the first time by separate legal entities; - the possibility was created for clubs to be registered as commercial companies; - the Bulgarian Paralympic Association and the Bulgarian Paralympic Committee are first established; - detailed development of the doping head; - the concept of sports and coaching services is regulated for the first time. This is an important differentiation, which is significant for the development of sport in Bulgaria; - we have made it mandatory to have coaching staff in sports clubs for their licensing; - we have included a detailed chapter on sports bases, which will solve the serious problems that there have been significant changes that will allow to limit the existence of phantom clubs, the requirement that sports clubs be members of only one sports federation, as well as the obligation to have coaching staff in order to be registered in the Register of Sports Organizations; - for the first time apply the issue of an unlimited sports license for sports federations, which eases the administrative burden on them; - we have regulated the management, use and maintenance of sports facilities in such a way as to create conditions for effective use and quality renewal of existing sports bases; - for the first time, renting out a sports object for a period of 10 to 30 years has been allowed. Now that's a long-term policy. In recent years the state has been working on the construction of sports infrastructure and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u206	Mr. Ivanov, keep quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ...and that they're giving up to over 1 million. lv. for the schools. For the first time, sports clubs get personal treatment from the state. 889 clubs of 50 sports received more than a 30% increase in the allocation in 2020. The measure was good and its perception was confirmed by the clubs. We therefore voted in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2021 a 100% increase in funds under this programme. Bulgarian sports clubs will receive an additional 6.5 million. BGN to support their activities. Regulation No 4 on financial support for the activity of construction, repair and reconstruction of the sports sites of state and municipal property has provided funding for 64 sites from 2015 to 2020. The total value of these projects is over 16 million. lv. These are: six halls; nine stadiums; four training fields; seven mini football fields; four closed and athletic tracks; five boxing rooms; five weight lifting rooms; three volleyball rooms and many others. Currently, the Ministry of Youth and Sport is in different stages of approval of public procurement. In different phases of execution of contracts are many other objects. An investment is envisaged in more than 20 sports facilities and facilities worth approximately 7 million. lv. In the modernisation of the sites of the National Sports Base from 2016 to 2020, 13 million were invested. lv. In the modernization of the sites of Academica 2011 "EAD" from 2016 to 2020 were invested 16.6 million. lv. In the past year alone, 25 million were allocated. lv. for the construction of gyms in 27 schools. It is worth mentioning that Bulgaria was one of the few countries in the CIVID crisis that supported and supported the most liberal measures in terms of sport. While Europe closed its stadiums, we had an audience. While Europe banned sporting events outdoors and indoors, they were held in our country. Is this not proof, colleagues, of the attitude and priority that mass sport occupies in the cabinet's management policy? For the finale, colleagues from BSP, I will allow myself the following quote: "Thank you for investing in sports and in the future of young people. We're monitoring these processes. Europe and the world have noticed Bulgaria's progress in recent years. "This, colleagues, is not a quote of anyone, but is a quote from the head of the International Olympic Committee Mr. Thomas Bach, addressed to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on his official visit. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are continuing with the next group of questions to the Minister of Environment and Waters Mr. Emil Dimitrov Simeonov. The first question is from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on adjustments to the management plan of the National Park. Mrs. Sidorova, I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u209	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After these praises and with loud words how good we are at sport to return to reality and focus on one more thing that I think we are first to do, namely to protect the environment by restoring one path. What exactly is this about? The implementation of one of the 15 activities under the Project "Restoration and conservation of natural habitats and species" in the National Park "Central Balkan" which is the activity No 7 "Conservation of easy natural habitats by repairing and restoring the road "Beklemeto" "Chalet "Dermenka" caused a wave of discontent and protests. I say a little more details about this project, this is an extremely beautiful part of Stara Planina, where there is currently a road. This time for 4.1 million. lv. it will be restored with a crumble so that the purpose of this project can be fulfilled, namely to preserve the Bulgarian nature. Very interesting. We're making way for motor vehicles to preserve nature. Bravo! Thus, as I said earlier, this caused a huge wave of discontent and protests throughout the country. With these petitions, people say that the Management Plan of the National Park "Central Balkan" was adopted on 24 March 2016. Since then, we are 2021, and this plan must be evaluated and corrected, to be reviewed how it is implemented, what adjustments should be implemented? Yeah, but they weren't made. Such an assessment and public discussion of the implementation of the activities envisaged and the need to make adjustments thereto is not available. In this regard, my question to you is: when will adjustments be made to the Management Plan of the National Park "Central Balkan" because there are thousands of signatures in the petition on the Internet to stop this outrageous construction, to really preserve this beautiful part of Bulgaria, and not through a four-km road to destroy another natural protected zone in Bulgaria? [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, you have your three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A wave of discontent. If only I could stop all the money for this Balkan so you wouldn't ask me questions later: give us for railings, give us for shelters, give us for improving the paths. But one day you want money for trails, railings and shelters, and the next day you don't want it. But I can't ban them, otherwise I'd say: BSP doesn't give money, now go to BSP. But I can't! The National Park "Central Balkan" was declared a People's Park by Order No 843 of 31 October 1991, relisted in National Park by Order No PB-247 of 19 July 1999 of the Ministry of Interior. For National Park there is an approved management plan for the period 2016 - 2025 by Decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria No 195 of 24 March 2016. This is the Plan. The objectives of the management are set out in the Law on Protected Areas, one of which is the creation of prerequisites for the development of tourism, environmentally friendly livelihoods of the population and others. With regard to the repair of the existing road, it should be noted that the Law allows repair of existing roads. That road is existing and falls within the infrastructure area in accordance with the management plan in force, in which the repair and maintenance of existing roads and parking lots are eligible. The road is state-owned, with the repair and maintenance of the facility being an obligation of the MOEW. If someone gets stuck in the woods: why didn't you clear the way? If someone's in trouble, why can't we save them? The same is included in Annex 3.2.3 of the Free Access Road Management Plan and Parking Plan of the Central Balkan. According to the Central Balkan Management Plan, three categories of roads for motor vehicles are defined: no roads for use; free access roads and restricted roads. Free access roads, which are only 15% of the total number of roads registered in the Park, serve to meet public needs, provide free access to visitors. Of the existing roads prohibited are 80% and with limited access to motor vehicles are 5%. The Ministry of Environment and Water is requested by the public organizations as requests for road closures in the National Park "Central Balkan" for motor vehicles from the Bulgarian Mountain Union, as well as requests for free access on all roads from the Association. By letter dated 14 December 2020, the Bulgarian Mountain Union and all interested state institutions were answered, such as the National Assembly, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Ombudsman and so on, concerning the requests of the Bulgarian Mountain Union for changes in the Management Plan relating to the ban on the movement of motor vehicles on the roads in the park and the establishment of new tourist routes. In the performance of art. 6, para. 3 of the Law on Protected Areas, MOEW has assigned the Directorate of Central Balkan National Park to organize a public discussion on the implementation of the Management Plan for the past four years. The time for the discussion April May 2020 coincides with the introduction of the emergency situation. There was a state of emergency here, too. Followed by the exceptional epidemic situation in the country, the holding of such an event at present is impossible. Immediately after the cancellation of the exceptional epidemic situation in the country, a public discussion will be organised and held, to which the local population, the public and the state institutions will be invited and will be able to submit their comments, comments and opinions on the implementation of the Management Plan for the four-year period, as well as on reasoned proposals for a change in the Management Plan. After the public discussion I am finished, Mr. Chairman, and analyzing the results of the public discussion, the Ministry of Environment and Water will decide whether to initiate a procedure in the order of Chapter IV
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u213	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, April May 2020 and now we are February 2021. There are CIVID, there are epidemic measures. Doesn't an online discussion exist for Central Balkan? You met for six months online the Council of Ministers. The parliament was online here. All sorts of conferences and congresses were held online, and only the Central Balkan National Park could not discuss its plan online. It's not serious! If we wait for Covid to run out, he'll be ready. Nowhere is it said that BSP doesn't want shelters. I'm saying that on this terrain, which is extremely beautiful, there are excruciating excavators and there's an asphalt road, a crumbling road, and a nine-kilometer road is being sewn up. Who needs this? Which tourists are going there? With enduro, with bikes, with jeeps? Is this our nature conservation? Now I'm going to read you exactly what is being done: cutting and re-asphalting for one kilometer, and the rest will have to be paved by broken stone. The banquets of broken stone so that the SUVs can go this way, not to go through the other territories and thus save nature and the lightless habitats. I'm sorry I'm saying this out of this tribune. It's an extremely beautiful place, an extremely beautiful nature that we're going to ruin with greed. There's four million for the shelter road, but there's only one way to move the SUVs there. That's not the concern of nature! I cannot accept that a discussion of the Plan is not being made because there is an emergency epidemic situation. Oh, please! Last day they were discussing the Domestic Violence Act a hundred people online from across the country. So, with the participation of ministers, the Ombudsman?! The plan for Central Balkan is not possible! A little more serious! Let's really discuss this plan, make adjustments to save the wonderful nature of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u215	I guess trying, where and when something is done in the mountains to be ruined won't stop. If we have a public discussion and then someone says he couldn't participate because he didn't have a computer, that he was placed in an uneven position, a situation to discuss, we'll start over. Your attempts to fail this time have not seen him, but I saw that once they failed in Rila. They probably won't make it this time. And you can forbid your members to walk on it! Nor have I planned it, nor have I participated, nor have I fought for money for this Balkan, but if the only money in the last 40 years that has come to Bulgaria, money from Europe you want us not to invest it on projects that Europe has approved because you do not like it, then one can, for the other cannot, for the other, not exist. I'm not going down that road, and I haven't gone through it, but if it's approved by the relevant institutions, let it be finished. If you want to ruin everything, do it. You won't always succeed. You will succeed many times. When it was for the Rila Lakes, I said so: there are no bulldozers there, it had to be done otherwise, but if you do not, it will never be done. They were very happy! Only three months later they cried out: but because the road was not made, all the mud goes into the lake and destroys it, what do you do? Well, we want a road, no mud, stop it! We want... So this situation is clear. This time it will surely be built, and you in the next parliament, life and health, I wish you to enter, you will explain how you want more, and more, and more money for this Balkan. But if it could be exactly the way you say it. Let the public be informed, let her also make a decision. Surely this time, in order to have it for so many years, there is a need to exist there. I don't see anything wrong with being remanded. I don't see anything wrong with him being remanded! I don't think this cabin was built on hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov is again by the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on the adoption of the National Waste Management Plan. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u217	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Just one note to the last question. In August I was there, I passed the Beklemetto route. There's no road there, but we'll see what happens next year. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the latest amendment to the Waste Management Act is from January 2019. This amendment regulates the measures and controls for protection of the environment and human health. We accept that the obligations of the district governor and municipalities for the establishment of regional associations for the construction of waste treatment facilities are also clearly defined. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Environment and Water to develop and submit to the Council of Ministers a National Waste Management Plan. This has been a period of action 2014-2020. Daily from the news we are flooded with information about waste warehouses with unregulated landfills. Pretty soon, just a few weeks ago, it was also the case of the huge amount of waste in the Iskar River. It is clear that the draft National Waste Management Plan in the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to mandatory environmental assessment. I know that there is already one that has been sent for such an assessment and an assessment procedure for its compatibility with the subject matter and objectives of conservation of protected areas. Unfortunately, however, today is February 5th, there is no such plan yet. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the National Waste Management Plan be adopted?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u219	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sidorova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The national waste management plan is a medium-term programme document setting out waste management policies containing programmes, implementation measures aimed at achieving the objectives set. The adoption of such a plan is a statutory obligation to the Member States of the European Union arising from art. 28 (1) of Directive 2008/98/EC on waste. The requirement is transposed into art. 49, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act. The National Waste Management Plan is developed by the Minister of Environment and Water and is adopted by the Council of Ministers. The preparation of the new National Waste Management Plan is funded and financed by the Operational Programme "Environment" and for its development is concluded Treaty No D-34-40 of 20 May 2020 between the Ministry of Environment and the Union of Energy 2020 with a deadline of up to 7 months. The implementation of the contract is in the final phase and the implementation period is currently suspended due to the ongoing environmental assessment procedure of the plan, which is mandatory according to art. 85, para. 1 of the Environmental Protection Act. On 21 January 2021, the deadline for the submission of opinions and comments on the environmental assessment procedure of the National Waste Management Plan for the period 2021 expired. On 26 January the opinion of the Ministry of Health on the report was received. The comments and opinions received from the consultations on the environmental evaluation report and the draft National Plan are to be reflected as soon as possible. The next step of the procedure is to submit a request for an opinion on the environmental assessment. In accordance with art. 25, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for carrying out an environmental assessment of plans and programmes within 30 days of the submission of a request, the competent authority will issue an opinion on the basis of the decisions of the Expert Environmental Council. Within that period, 7 days are also included to review the completeness of the documentation. With the issuance of environmental assessment opinions, the environmental assessment procedure shall be completed. In the meantime, a procedure will be carried out for internal coordination of the draft national plan in the system of the Ministry of Transport. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Administration of the Council of Ministers, and public discussion on the plan under art. 26 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on In view of the above, the MoEW will submit for approval the draft National Waste Management Plan for adoption by the Council of Ministers by 28 February 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, thank you for this answer. I hope that by February 28th there will indeed be such a national plan. Analyses of the current situation show that there is a significant potential in the country to improve the prevention and management of waste. In 1998, a complete review of pesticides was carried out later in 2011, all the places where they are and a register was established describing where they are located, what their state is. To date, however, this register is not working. Once again, we have something that was created, but it doesn't work. I don't know why. You may be able to tell me in your answer. It's still a baffling ambiguity that signals of hazardous waste are constantly coming out. Now in our region in Gabrovo, the other day there was an open warehouse of huge quantities of pesticides that have been sitting there for years. And thanks to what I understand, and to your interference, they have been disabled and sent to France. However, why this register is not working is very strange and I hope you will give me an answer to this question. And once again say or hear from you how the formation and storage of hazardous waste in Bulgaria will be prevented in these quantities in which we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We of the waste passed on to persistent organic pollutants. In Bulgaria, for 50 years 60 very strong pollutants, as you said pesticides, were stored on TTZS, on farmyards, then moved to the strongest building, from there to the third. After all, now that 40 years has passed, we have to hunt them down and destroy them. According to the Bulgarian-Swiss cooperation programme around 3600 tonnes have been disabled. Last year, at the request of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, a very fast organization was made. The Council of Ministers decided and ordered up to 1000 tonnes to be disabled, which are in the most dangerous, worst places in the country. Accordingly, we created an organization immediately and managed to move a little over 1,000 tonnes abroad. An extremely complex organization, the incinerators do not want to deal with persistent pesticides, they do not want such substances, they want to do their other work. We barely found an incinerator in France who would agree to do so. Of course, there is still the question of the other several thousand tons that are in the country. And it's very nice for three years, if we can clean it all up, if we can do it, and you can scream, "It's slow, it can be done faster!" What I will do in my remaining days as Minister is to make a proposal to the Council of Ministers because the order of the Prosecutor's Office continues to act for these pesticides, to see what we can do with this part that remains in Bulgaria. Of course, funding should also be provided for this. The problem is another 20 years ago, 16 years ago they decided not to move them abroad to destroy them, and some of the pesticides are repacked, so to speak, from the cans are placed in some concrete containers and 4 tons of pesticides by putting it in 6 tons of container, now we have 10 tons of pesticides. Well, I wonder if I should bother with them, because under contract, the durability of these containers has been 100 years, and they on the 10th, 15th, 20th are running a lot. But perhaps there will come a time when they will make me defuse them only and only so that there will be no more such pollutants in Bulgaria. It's an extremely big problem. And because you said about the register, the register said there were five tons, and there were 25 tons. The other says there is, and there is nothing there, because in the meantime someone has decided to smuggle them into the neighboring village because the building is stronger there. And that's why we open up and go with the capacity of a certain tonnage, and it turns out it's much bigger or it's gone. I'm glad your district manager and your mayor and the district attorney have cooperated so we can open these warehouses. One of them was very close to the city, the same in Sevlievo, and in some other settlements, to take them out with permits to France and disarm them.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u224	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. Only one more question remains to be dealt with by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov regarding violations of Complex permit No 349-NO/08, updated by Decision No 349-NO-IO-A1/2015 of the Regional Depot for Non-Dangerous Waste. Welcome to your question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The theme of waste storage sites, so-called landfills, is quite up-to-date in recent days. This is no exception and the Shumen depot, which is licensed according to the Complex License, which should act professionally, perfectly, however, is not the case. During last 2020, Dear Minister, contaminated water has been found several times, the so-called infiltration, in the gorge at the Voisk Bridge of the Training Centre in Divdawovo, town. Noisy. I'm opening a clamp, by the way, a few days ago the same thing happened, and I went, and I was there, and I saw this black water, this poison that's leaking. You may know, but to date, there is no morphological analysis of this infiltration, because the municipal administration does not want to do such a morphological analysis and no known poison, what is leaking from there a prerequisite for an environmental disaster. And my question in this regard is you: what checks have been carried out by RIEW How many and what prescriptions were issued to the municipality of Shumen and, respectively, the Municipal Enterprise of Cleanliness, which manages this depot? Is there a follow-up control by the RIEW "Shoumen"? What and how many acts have been drawn up to establish administrative violations? How many and what criminal decrees have been issued in this regard? What is the current state and is there an leakage of contaminated waters from the Regional Non-hazardous Wasteyard in Shumen? I think I answered that question because a few days ago I saw it with my own eyes. Are the reactions of the RIEWs timely and adequate, Shumen, in the context of the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u226	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u227	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the beginning of the year, two signals have been received for brown water leaks from a regional landfill for non-hazardous waste, the city of Shumen, on which actions have been taken as follows. A joint on-the-spot inspection was carried out on 11 January by experts of the Eco-inspection and Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region at the regional depot. It has been found that from the retrosion pool of the depot there is a transfusion of infiltrations and waste water in the rainy gutter through which the waters are taken to a ravine, which is found in the Kamchia River. The emergency situation occurred as a result of an accident of the pumps and adverse weather conditions. The Municipality of Shumen is ordered to stop the leakage of the waters, which is fulfilled. Given that the Inspection has not been notified of the emergency situation of the Municipality of Shumen, an act of administrative infringement has been drawn up under the Water Act. On 31 January 2021, a new signal for the leakage of infiltration from the regional depot was received. An immediate on-the-spot inspection was carried out by RIEW experts Shumen, and the Black Sea Region Swimming Directorate. Once again, waste water leaks have been found from the depot in the restension pool in the ravine, which is located in the Kamchia River. The current expiry is a failure to comply with the condition of the issued complex permit of the depot, for which a second act of the Inspection was drawn up for the establishment of an administrative infringement of the Municipality of Shumen in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Environment. A prescription is given to the Municipality and to the Municipal Enterprise. A subsequent control of the given prescription was carried out on 2 February, which found that there was no transfusion outside the repair pool, but in the surrounding ditch of the depot there was an leakage of infiltration. Due to the partial failure to comply with the provision of the Shumen Municipality on 31 January 2021, a third act has been drawn up in the order of the EEA Agreement and prescriptions have been given for the cessation of the discharge of infiltrates and the presentation in writing of a graphic plan for the permanent resolution of the problem of short-term, short-term and long-term measures with deadlines for implementation. We are about to take soil samples to assess the soil status in the area of leakage. On 3 February, a letter was received in the Inspection by the operator of the depot for the occurrence of an accident,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... RIEW "Shoumen" will complete the initiated administrative criminal procedures under the three acts drawn up and issue a criminal decree in compliance with the deadline laid down in the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. In conclusion, when you went to the right place, [[Deputy Minister Dimitrov addressed MP Ivan Ivanov]] Why didn't you see who and when built this depot? This cell, which one of them built it? Is it just the pumps or something else that has technology, construction? Because every time you ask me about certain topics, you forget the past that has happened and where the whole problem comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u228	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u229	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, when you have something to say, say it all the way. Who built it? It's not bad to hear from the stands. The point is that millions of levs have been spent on the Bulgarian taxpayer given by the Ministry, which you manage. Another point is that you are not telling the whole truth that this thing is not from yesterday, not from today. I have a reference that I have received from RIEW through other people who have given it to me that this problem has existed since 2010 issued criminal decrees for the same thing by the previous operator........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The checks stop sharply when the administration in the municipality is taken over by the party that has broadcast you for Minister. The impressions that have been created are that the Director of the RIEW is widely required not to control such problems in the Noisy Dumpster. The last act was issued to the Municipal Enterprise "Cleanness" in 2017. For the same thing. I can tell you the number for the same thing. This means that there is a severe relapse and pollution of the environment. In this case, two conclusions can be drawn. First, that there is a systematic failure to comply with the official commitments of RIEW employees. Secondly, suspicions perhaps that your employees, with or without your instructions, are covering up the violations of Shumen Municipality. It's either for the prosecutor's office to refer to her, or someone else to refer to the prosecutor's office. If you put an umbrella on the municipal enterprise so that no fines would be imposed, because the director complained that if they put an act on him for 10,000. BGN, he would leave and there was no one to manage the Municipal Enterprise "Cleanness." Yes, but the work of RIEW and your minister is to control such processes. My request is for you to check, to send a serious check there and to establish, and to dispel all doubts that an umbrella is being made on Shumen Municipality, which is currently an operator, respectively, through the Municipal Enterprise, the Cleanness of this dump, from where they come out, is leaking poisonous waters whose content is not known, as you said. This is not right and the Municipality does not want to do a morphological analysis of this infiltration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u230	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in. You have two minutes for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Last time I checked, it was this dump. It's been leaking ever since, but the current minister, if he can, will decide everything. Very easy, very convenient. And the current mayor built it in 2010? Because we write acts on it. He's the guy, what should he do? If you were elected mayor tomorrow, what would you do? Miracles will be done by you have already done them wonders. I'm very sorry, Mr. Ivanov, but you've known this problem for years, but now politically, before the elections you insist on explaining how much the current mayor poisons the river, poisons nature, poisons society, but you've forgotten all these 10 years. That's why I don't remind you that this dump has been in place since 2010. And if there's a problem all these years, what have you done to plant a treatment plant? Now, however, it is very easy for you before the elections. Let me throw you a problem with pesticides for 40 years, let me throw you a problem with a landfill for 10 years. It's very nice. Only I have a selective problem solving myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u232	Now you're the Minister to make things right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u233	Please be quiet! Don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u234	The current mayor has the slightest fault for inheriting a dump from ten years ago. The slightest blame for burning his pump. The slightest guilt was that there was a huge rain in which all the pools overflowed and the pumps failed to circulate and one of them burned. And yet we've drawn up three acts for him. One that didn't notify, one that didn't do, one that... That's not enough for you either. Why? Because we're in an election. Now the mayor in Shumen will pay three acts and pay the price to all who have been idle before him because the Law says so. But don't make me solve a 40-year-old problem or a 11-year-old problem exactly one month before an election, because that's how you like it so you can campaign. I don't do elections. The mayor of Shumen will pay for his acts. The Cleanness Office will pay for the acts. They've taken action. There no longer expires, but the problem of 2010, which you know perfectly well, exists. At least I've done three acts in my day and explained to me that I've put on an umbrella since 2010. It's just not right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Have a good job the rest of the day! Together with you, if you will also allow Members of the National and World Economy University to congratulate students from the National and World Economy Committee................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Applause.]] Congratulations! To continue our work with a question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. The issue is from the MP Vasil Antonov on our country's priorities in the field of nuclear energy and the future of the nuclear power plant. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, recently after your Report, the government has decided that it will use the equipment ordered for NPP Belene to build the VII block of NPP. At the same time, the procedure for selecting an investor of the NPP is not terminated. At this stage, none of the candidates have given up on the project despite the various signals given by the government. Your chaotic actions and chaotic actions of the government, Prime Minister Borisov, create uncertainty among foreign companies with interest in the nuclear project, which will have negative consequences in the long term for the Bulgarian energy and economy. Dear Minister, for three years you have been trying to convince the public that the investment of over 20 billion in the new nuclear power plant near Belene is necessary and justified. Today you have forgotten your promises and numerous visits to the site. In addition, you do not implement the June decision that the government and the National Assembly adopted in 2018. For the completion of the Project nuclear power plant "Belene". Here is also my question to you: what are our country's priorities in the field of nuclear energy, if you are aware? What will be the future of NPP Belene? What will be the consequences if you cancel the nuclear power plant project? What will happen to the site, which is 2,000 and 600 acres and all the investments that are made there that no one knows, but are not less than 5 billion. lv. on our advance account? Thank you. I'm docking your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u237	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. I pay attention to you not to use insulting words and expressions in your speeches. Next time you'll be sanctioned. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u238	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, as you pointed out and in fact your question is: what is Bulgaria's nuclear energy strategy? The document, in which this strategy and our vision for the development of nuclear energy is laid down, is first of all the Integrated Plan "Climate" which has been drawn up by colleagues and other ministries - economy, environment and water - energy, so that it can cover the entire spectrum of issues that concern this sector. We are very clear there that Bulgaria will need 2 thousand megawatts of base nuclear power in the coming years. In the Energy Strategy Project, which we have developed, and which is presented in Parliament too, it is very clearly stated that what will be needed for Bulgaria is a new nuclear power of 2 thousand megawatts. As far as the specifics regarding the NPP project are concerned, in relation to all these decisions that you have cited, the Council of Ministers' decision, what I can present to you at this time, as information is as follows: You rightly noted that the decision of the National Assembly of June 2018 is a fact and it clearly states what the will of the Bulgarian Parliament is. In accordance with art. 86, para. 2 of the Constitution each decision of the National Assembly is mandatory for implementation by all citizens and institutions. So, whatever decision to make from now on, this will be a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament. Perhaps it is important to explain that, following the decision of the Bulgarian Parliament in 2019, certain circumstances have occurred related to the construction of the VII block of the NPP. After nearly 5 years of judicial saga, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled with a final decision that the EIA related to the site of the VII block of the NPP "Kozloduy" is legal and since April 2019 it has been in force. As a result of this decision, a decision of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency was also followed, which approved the Area No 2 in 2020 for the construction of the VII block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." In this regard, the government decided on a basis to assign the Bulgarian Energy Holding to enter into negotiations with US companies leaders in the field of nuclear energy so that we could actually see how in the best way we could make use of the site at our disposal, with the already available EIA, with the permission that the Nuclear Regulatory Agency provided. Colleagues have come into communication with American companies in this regard. Only perhaps it is important to note that the EIA contains three technologies that have been approved. The first technology is VVER-1000 AES-92, i.e. the technology for the equipment of the NPP project. The second API 1000 technology is American technology. The third technology is AES-2006 again Russian technology. So we, within these three technologies, have to look for some solution to maximize what we have, such as a site in. We should look for the best option for Bulgaria. Colleagues came into communication with American companies, with Westinghouse. From there we received feedback that it couldn't and couldn't be proposed AP1000 reactor. The possibilities that remain, and what colleagues have proposed as an option, is to analyse the possibility that there is a technical obstacle to the equipment available to be used for the VII block of A report was prepared and in this report experts clearly explain that there is no such technical obstacle. The logical action then was to assign a legal analysis, a financial and economic analysis, to see what the structuring of such an option could be, such a project. As a result, there is a working group that deals precisely with this analysis, which is legal, economic and financial. As soon as we have this analysis, of course we will enter the Bulgarian Parliament and it will be the one to make the final decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u239	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u241	Mr. Antonov, you're entitled to a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u242	Which exact qualification should I not use, Mr. Chairman, in order not to be sanctioned by you, because the answer certainly does not satisfy me as much as the voters of the 15th election district Pleven, as well as the people who have an interest in developing the Bulgarian economy. Is there something about what I said that's not true?! Everything that you said today, Minister Petkova, exactly contradicts everything you said for three years. That's what I said, nothing else. Isn't that a chaotic development when today, from this tribune, we speak exactly what we talked about three years before, and today, with two or three sentences, we denied everything?! Nevertheless, I believe that Bulgaria still needs two power plants today, the development of nuclear energy in both Kozloduy and the NPP of Belene. And one project should not be opposed to the other project because significant investments have been made in Belene. There is a prospect because there is a need to consume cheap electricity, whatever we say, whatever approaches we are looking for. Today, once again, we put things in such a way that the construction of both plants is questionable. If we keep doing this... You also did not answer another question that I put at the end: if the project is terminated, what do we do with Belene? Is there anyone in Bulgaria who can make an analysis, specifically an analysis, of the funds spent in Belene and where did these funds go? It's clear that the reactors that are there, the construction works that have been done, all of that 2,000. 600 acres that were invested in the site, but was that much money invested and where did that money go down? I think you owe this to the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u243	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov! I think that in my reply I made it clear that the Bulgarian Parliament has taken the decision of June 2018 and only the Bulgarian Parliament can change it or make another such decision. But you yourself know that the procedure that was launched related to the choice of the strategic investor, for objective reasons associated with the world pandemic of COVID-19, slowed down and the deadlines that were planned, in practice, cannot be met. However, this does not prevent, in the meantime, after all these new facts and circumstances relating to the VII block of We will then enter the parliament, offer you, show the analyses and now the Bulgarian Parliament will decide which of these decisions is actually the right one. And I am sure that together we will make the best decision for Bulgaria. As for the costs of the NPP project, I have had the opportunity to comment here at other times, these costs are approximately 3 billion. lv. They were carried out in a very long period of time from 2006, with the signing of the NEK-ACE Agreement. So I can specifically, if you wish, submit such information, but it does not at present have much importance. We need to find the best solution based on the facts we have. So this is what we need to do as a step. We need to make sure that, on the one hand, we preserve the National Electricity Company, because all that is happening will practically reflect on NEK, respectively, on the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is why my call is for all of us to be truly united and very calm to reconsider and actually see what the benefits are, what the losses of such a solution would be. And I am sure that the Bulgarian Parliament will make the best decision for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-02-05.u245	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Have a nice and easy job and I wish you the rest of the day! Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourned. The next meeting will be held on 10 February in the Chamber of the National Assembly. [[PHONE RINGING]]
