ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I'll introduce you to a few messages: On 4 January 2021, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 January 2020. 39, para. 7th sentence second of the Bankruptcy Act by letter of the Chairman of the Board of the Bank Guarantee Fund in the National Assembly received a Report of the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Law for the period 22 November 21 December 2020 and Protocol No 40 of the Governing Council meeting of 29 December 2020. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were provided to the Budget and Finance Commission and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. On 8 January 2021, the National Assembly of the Court of Auditors received a list of the final audit reports sent in December 2020 to the audited sites for financial audits carried out by the Court of Auditors published on its website. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: First, the passage through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an airplane with its crew from the Royal Air Force of Thailand. The authorisations shall be valid for the period 21 to 26 December 2020. For two fields and from 8 to 12 January 2021 Also for two flights, all to transport the prince of Thailand. Second, passing through the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria with a non-military nature of aircraft with its crew of the Air Force of the Republic of Azerbaijan to transport military production. The authorisation shall be valid for flights by routes from Baku, the Republic of Azerbaijan, Madrid, the Kingdom of Spain and back in the period from 18 to 31 January 2021. The orders issued shall be within the competence of the Minister of Defence, assessing the military parameters of the transition with a view to the country's defence on export control issues and in accordance with the international sanctions regimes binding on the Republic of Bulgaria. The country's airspace clearances should be granted to the countries concerned following a favourable opinion from the competent public authorities in these areas. The notifications were received on 18 December 2020 and 7, 12 January 2021 respectively. No 003-09-104; No 103-09-1; No 103-09-2 and submitted to the Defence Commission. And the last message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: First, the dispatch of a military vessel with its state weapons and crew troops to participate in a training exercise by the Romanian Navy in the period from 18 to 29 March 2021. Second, the dispatch of a military ship with its state weapons and crew troops to participate in a joint Bulgarian-Romanian anti-mining exercise between 25 February and 26 March 2021. Third, the dispatch and use of up to two aircraft with crews from the Air Force for the transport of humanitarian aid to those in distress after the earthquake in the Republic of Croatia on 1 January, back-up days from Sofia airport to Zagreb and vice versa. The notifications were received on 30 and 31 December 2020, respectively, with an entry. No 003-09-105; No 003-09-106 and No 003-09-107 and made available to the Defence Commission. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF THE INTERNAL WORKS CHRISTO TERZIAN, THE MINISTER OF THE ENERGY TEMENUQUE, THE MINISTER OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE WATER EMPLOYMENT AND THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC LUKEZAR BORISOV ON THE SITUATION OF THE TERRITORY OF THE COUNTRY WITH REGARD TO THE VILLAGE OF THE OBSERVED OBSERVATION AND THE PRESENT ACTIONS BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES. The request received is from GERB's parliamentary group. The hearing will be held on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. You know what is said in this article - I will give the ministers 10 minutes to make an exhibition, after which each parliamentary group will ask 2 questions, starting with Minister Terziyski. We will make the first round of all parliamentary groups to ask questions and so with each minister we will proceed until the end, then the second round begins. I give the floor to Mr. Nenkov to make an exhibition. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u3	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we witnessed a complicated weather situation and in a series of several days serious amounts of precipitation have fallen which have resulted in serious material damage. Fortunately only material damage, perhaps due to the rapid reaction of the relevant competent institutions, damage which led to various types of landslides, flooded roads that are closed, violation of the electricity supply to different settlements.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u5	Guys, it's too loud in the hall! Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u6	For this reason, and for the reason that the precipitation may have decreased, the situation has been normalized thanks to the timely action of the authorities. It is expected that in the coming days there will be a sharp chill, which will certainly call into question the creation of a good organization from the point of view of the electricity system, from the point of view of the completion of the recovery activities that have begun in the desire of the institutions to open all the passageways and roads and to normalize the situation. For this reason, my fellow Members and I have decided that we should request a hearing of the four ministers, and it is no coincidence that the four of us, because we believe that in such a complex situation there should be a complex solution to all these questions. Because of this, it is good to hear the answers to the questions from each minister, because of its competence, and their presentations about how and how we have dealt with the situations and what possible preventive actions have been taken so that we can ensure over the next few days that meteorologists predict what the actions of the competent institutions will be so as to minimize the damage from possible complicated situations. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. We begin with the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski to brief us on the situation within 10 minutes. Colleagues, I'm gonna have to ask you to keep quiet. It's very noisy in this room. I think the topic is very important and we are all interested in it, as are Bulgarian citizens. Here you are, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I present to your attention information on the situation on the territory of the country in relation to the deteriorating weather situation and the actions taken by the Ministry of Interior............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a result of the complicated weather situation in recent days, the levels of rivers have risen, which has required the implementation of control and release activities of some of the dams. The fallen significant amounts of precipitation, as well as the rapid snow melting significantly complicate the operational situation in the districts of Sofia, Sofia-district, Pernik, Burgas, Smolyan, Blagoevgrad, Montana, Vratsa and Kyustendil. The snowfalls in Northwestern Bulgaria and part of Central and Southern Bulgaria caused the temporary and complete closure of roads and passageways. As a result of the floods, numerous infrastructure sites, public and residential buildings, courtyards and agricultural lands were affected. Despite the intensive development of the situation and the numerous signals received over the period, due to the rapid reaction and joint action of the executive bodies and the components of the Single Rescue System, no serious incidents related to the victims and victims of citizens have occurred. An organization has been established for 24-hour monitoring of the levels of dams and rivers. At the moment, there are no dams that, through controlled release, endanger people's lives and property. Disasters have been reported on the territory of: partial distress situation in the village of Ravadinovo, Sozopol municipality; partial distress situation in the town of Belovo, Pazardzhik district, with effect from 10.00 on 12 January 2021; partial distress situations in the municipalities of Dragoman, Svoge and Kostinbrod, Sofia district; partial distress situations in the municipalities of Simitli, Strumians and Yakoruda, Blagoevgrad district; partial distress situations in the municipalities of Novi Iskar, [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u9	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u10	...partial distress situations in the municipalities of Dospat and Madan, Smolyan district; disaster situation in Tran municipality and partial distress situations in the municipalities of Pernik and Radomir. Partial distress situation for the following settlements: the town of Vratsa, the district of Bistrits, the village of Beli spring and the village of Gorno Pestane. For the period from 0,00 on 12 January 2021 to 6,00 on 13 January 2021 by teams of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. In the period 10 January 2021, I indicated an effective management of the forces and funds of the Ministry of Interior to ensure public order in relation to the complicated weather situation in the country in the territory of the SDVR and the ODVR, actions were taken to manage the crisis situation created due to heavy precipitation. More than 450 employees from the SVR and the ODVR and 120 motor vehicles and equipment, more than 2700 employees of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, and 864 units of equipment, participated in disaster protection activities. More than 70 co-operations have been given to citizens and local authorities by employees of the SDVR and the ODMI and more than 50 employees of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. Synergies with other bodies are being carried out.. Regional administration, municipal administrations and others. Permanent contact shall be maintained with the watermelon owners in the districts. The patrol and post office teams and territorial police officers are ordered to monitor, report and submit timely information on all cases related to the weather situation. Action shall also be taken to ensure public order and ensure the smooth movement of road vehicles in the management of the situation. Together with the employees of the Regional Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection, an organization has been established to drain flooded areas and roads. There are also events for the drainage of houses and basements. Information from the district managers and representatives of the local authorities. At 11.30 on 13 January 2021 information was received from 23 districts. The following conclusions are drawn from the reports submitted by the district governors: Firstly, the executive has created the necessary organisation for actions to eradicate the accidents and their consequences. The plans for protection against disasters, floods and snowfall are in place. Secondly, as a result of the organisation established for the eradication of accidents and the assistance of those in distress, there are no people who have died. In full coordination between institutions, victims of incidents of a different nature are assisted. For example, I will point out that on 11 January 2021, due to heavy rainfall in the town of Smolyan, a land mass collapsed, which knocked down a house with 11 people in it, of which 7 children. Officials from Smolyan District Department, ambulance teams, as well as Fire Department officers Smolyan have responded to the signal in a timely manner. As of 13 January 2021, the condition of the victims was stable, all taken out of the house and subsequently transported to the hospital in Smolyan for medical assistance. Six persons were examined as a child left for treatment for resulting fractures to the body. The Municipality of Smolyan has taken action to accommodate the persons in municipal housing and has also provided goods of primary necessity. An organization has been established by the regional governors and mayors of municipalities to monitor the levels of dams and rivers in critical areas, especially those of the Eastern Belomor and Black Sea Region,... Maritsa, Tunja, Arda, Veleka, Devilska and others, as well as the state of road infrastructure. Information on the weather and hydrological environment shall be monitored, on the basis of its analysis a warning shall be made to the executive and local authorities and action shall be taken. All teams of the Single Rescue System shall work coordinatedly and will continue with the following measures: continuous monitoring of weather information, with indications of deterioration of the situation, the National Headquarters will take concrete action related to it. When the situation is complicated, the National Traffic Coordination Centre shall report in due time in the relevant areas and municipalities on road safety. A police patrol guard organisation has been established in the ODMI, on whose territory there are landslides, in order to avoid incidents and to monitor landslide processes. If necessary, road police teams shall set up a traveling organisation on bypass routes. An organization is maintained to implement planned events in accordance with regional, municipal and municipal disaster plans. In conclusion, I inform you that at 6:00 on 14 January 2021, the situation on the territory of the country is normalizing. The declared partial disaster situation in the village of Ravadinovo, Sozopol municipality remains. The partially declared disaster situation remains in the town of Belovo, Pazardzhik district. The partial disasters in the municipalities of Dragoman, Svoge and Kostinbrod remain. There are also the partial disasters introduced in the municipalities Simitli, Strumiani, Yakoruda and Gotse Delchev. There are also the introduced partial distress situations in the municipalities of New Iskar, Hope, and Ovcha kupel, Sofia district. There are also the disasters introduced in the municipality of Trun and partial distress situations in the municipalities of Pernik and Radomir. The partial distress situations in the municipalities of Dospat and Madan, Smolyan district, have been cancelled. Partly distress was announced on the territory of the municipality of Vratsa, the district of Bistrets. The town of Vratsa and the villages of Beli spring and Gorno Pestane, the municipality of Vratsa. On the territory of the country there are no dams that overflow uncontrollably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u11	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u12	Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u13	Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I think it is appropriate to turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the microphones of the Radio to listen to the people what measures are being taken by the government regarding the state of emergency in the country. This is the first procedure I want the National Assembly to vote on. My second procedure is for you to invite the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because many of the people who have suffered from this disaster, from these floods, expect some compensation. It can also contribute to today's debate by saying how the state could be useful to these people in their compensation for the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. I'll put to the vote your proposal to turn on BNT 2 cameras and BNR microphones. And regarding the second procedure, you can do this procedure yourself, but I think it is too early because the damage has not yet been identified. Within next week, we can invite Mrs. Sacheva to brief us on exactly what the government will do in this direction. I put to the vote the procedure of Mr. Gokov for direct broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR at today's hearing. 135 MPs voted: 131, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras and microphones. We continue with Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Madam Minister, within 10 minutes to brief us on the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the complicated weather situation in the country in the last few days I will provide your attention with a brief information related to the state of the country's electricity system, the state of the dams that the National Electricity Company manages and manages. I will start first with the National Electricity Company, as it manages and manages some of the largest complex, significant dams in the country. NEK owns 31 hydropower plants, 28 hydropower and 3 pumped-up hydro power plants with a total installed capacity of 2737 megawatts in turbine mode and 931 megawatts in pump mode. He also runs 33 dams, along with 46 dams... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u17	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u18	...arms to them, 671 kilometers of diversions, tunnels and canals, over 500 taps. The total volume of dams is 3.5 billion. Cube. m, which is 55% of the total regulated volume of the reservoirs in the Republic of Bulgaria. On 11 January 2021 the falling precipitation in areas exceeds 75 l per square metre. M, with a large part of the watercourses being declared orange code for dangerous precipitation. The preprevention volume was used to accumulate a large portion of the drain, while another part was used by hydroelectric plants. In the implementation of extremely large quantities of water, exceeding the maximum flow rate of the power plants, measures have been taken to control the release through the respective dam facilities. Now I will present you briefly with information about the four major stunts affected by intense precipitation. Kascada, Battashki hydrosil road. As of 8 pm on 1 January 2021, the Dam is filled at 72.5%. Since the beginning of the month, 17.4 million have been received. Cube. m of water, with 13 million ccs of water coming in last week, and filling reached 88.98%. From 0,00 on 13 January 2021 a 24-hour mode of operation of hydroelectric power plants has been put in place for maximum operation of the incoming inflow and non-excession for energy processing of volumes. At 8.00 on 1 January 2021 the dam is full of 65.5%. By 8:00 on January 13, 2021, it was completed at 68.9%. There's enough free volume to absorb an expected flow, there's no danger of transfusions. The Cascade.. Dospat.. Vacha. By 8.00 on 1 January 2021 the volume of the dam was set at 79.6%. The resulting influx from the beginning of the month is 40 million. Cube. m water, at 8.00 p.m. on 13 January the filling rate is 88.1%. Free volume is sufficient to absorb the incoming flow, there is no risk of transfusion. Reservoir of Tsankov kamak. As of 1 January 2021, it was complete at 86.4%. The current from the beginning of the month is 55.7 million cubic feet. From 12:00 on 11 January 2021, an increase in incoming flow began. Powered mode of operation of hydroelectric power plants is in place for maximum operation of the incoming inflow and according to the pass of the lower power plants from the stunt. On 12 January at 10.30 pm one of the four segment prisons of the overflow for controlled discharge of water volumes was opened. At 10:17 p.m. on January 13th, the controlled release through the overflow is terminated. The hydroelectric power plant Tsankov kamak continues to operate at full load. At the dam, the volume was 88.8% as of 1 January. About 8:00 on January 13th is 98.2%. From January 6th to January 13, the total flow is 44 million cubic, which represents 36.96 percent of its useful volume. PAVEC "Orpheus", hydroelectric power station "Krichim" and hydroelectric power station "Vosta 2" work in maximum possible stunt production with the aim of non-deleting energy raw volumes. Cascada, Arda. On 1 January 2021, the dam was set at 76.5%. From January 6th to January 13th, the input into the dam is 140 million cubic metres, representing 42.7% of its useful volume. A mode of operation is in place, consistent with the transmission power of the lower power plants from the stunt. From January 11, 2021 there has been an increase in the flow rate, which exceeds 7 times the flow rate of hydropower hydropower power plants in operation of maximum power. At 19.13 on January 12, one overflow valve of four was opened for controlled discharge of water volumes through the overflow. At 12:00 on 13 January, the controlled release through the overflow is terminated. Studen Kreuse Reservoir on 1 January 2021 has a boiling volume of 81,4%. Since the beginning of the month the hydroelectric power station is working under forced mode, more than 100 million ccs of water are consumed. From January 6th to January 13th, 160 million cubic metres of its useful volume have entered the dam. Since January 11th there has been a sharp increase in the flow, which has reached values exceeding eight times the maximum flow rate of hydroelectric power plants. At 19.10 on January 12, a overflow valve of nine was opened for controlled discharge of water volumes through the overflow. At 3:00 p.m., January 13th, another overflow valve opens. On January 1st, Ivaylovgrad dam has a boiling volume of 78% compared to its total volume. At the beginning of the month, a forced mode of operation was introduced, with a total of 150 million ccs of water being processed from hydropower. From January 6th to January 13th, the incoming flow into the dam is 144 million cubic metres. At 9:50 p.m. on January 13th, a transfusion at the level of a hard frontal overflow began. At present, the flow has been reduced and there is a residual moderate transfusion as expected. Kascada "Bellmeken" "Sestremo" "Momina Klisura". By 8:00 on January 1st, the volume of the dam is 65.8% of the total volume, the input is 5.4 million cubic. By 8:00 on January 13th, the filling rate is 67.4, the free volume is sufficient to absorb the incoming flow. There's no danger of transfusions. During the high wave, all hydro-aggregators of hydro-electric plants, as well as those operated by the National Electric Company dams and the respective facilities are fully operational. As regards the electric system operator, due to the complicated weather situation, four power lines of 110 kilovolts and two electricity lines of 400 kilovolts have been identified for the period 10 to 13 January. Three of the power lines of 110 kilovolts have already been removed. Currently working on replacement of a pillar of 110 kilovolts in the municipality of Chiprovtsi, removing the accident of 400 kilovolts of substation. Since 13 January 2021, the 400-kilovolt power line has also been set off. Nine ECO working teams are working to eliminate accidents and restore normal operation of the power lines. At present, the country's electricity system is stable and operating in normal mode. With regard to electricity distribution companies. As a result of the complicated weather environment caused by heavy precipitation, based on the information provided by CEZ Electricity Distribution North, I can reduce to your knowledge the following information: On January 11 at 8:00 a.m. without electricity are 70 settlements and 15 252 clients. On January 12, around 8:00 a.m., there are 63 settlements and 11 540 customers. On January 13 at 8:00 a.m. without electricity are 40 settlements with 4584 clients. Currently at 8:00 p.m. today, without power supply or with problems with disturbance in the power supply are 26 settlements and 4227 clients, such settlements as these settlements are located in high-mountain territories of Slivnitsa Municipality, Svoge, Kostinbrod and Dragoman. The necessary organisation has been set up so that the accidents within today should accordingly be removed. With regard to Mini Maritsa-East. As a result of the complicated situation, no risks have been created for the normal operation of the complex "Maritsa-east" so that the situation there is completely calm, the required amounts of coal are obtained. In conclusion, I can say that the country's electricity system is stable and Bulgarian citizens need to be calm. It is reacted perfectly against the background of the complicated weather environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u19	Thank you, dear Minister. Next up is the Minister of Environment and Water, Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u20	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers! In order not to repeat the figures Mrs. Petkova said and are extremely correct, I will refer to the others. I hope later you will ask questions about the dams separately. In general, I will say to save Parliament time: the dams are full. They're surprisingly full for this season. They were full before the rains, but no one wanted to admit it. We have seen the climate change in four hours, which otherwise does not pour out in four months. Just imagine if you're at home in the bathroom taking a bath. Put on a water heater, the siphon takes it, turn on 160 water heaters, and you'll see he won't be able to take it. [[Noise. A line from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u21	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u22	We've seen how the dams work. A national treasure. First of all, they act as a buffer, and they collect the water that is coming. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u23	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u24	That's exactly what I'm explaining, if you bathe, the siphon takes over the water, but if you bathe with the amount of water for 160 days at a time, the siphon will not take over for you the second time I repeat it. We saw the good part of the dams. They act as buffers, they collect the high wave, they retain it, they distribute it to each other, and they release it controlled only when the riverbeds are empty. If they weren't there, all the water would go down the riverbeds and take everything away. They were made for a reason, and we saw how well they worked. The Danube is below the threshold for attention. Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region "Said that there are no facilities under control that are not operational. I would like to say that the operators of the dam facilities, of the diversion, almost without exception, were following the instructions given by the monthly schedule, including the one for January. I would like to say that we have given all operators the right, depending on the modification of the hydrometeorological situation, to use all relief facilities, if necessary, in order to protect the harmful effects of water. I will explain the relief facilities are: overflows, water towers, main droppers, so they have this right to do so and with each schedule they are given. Separately for dams, which are in a particular position and public attention, we have given them the right, depending on the change of hydrometeorological conditions, to exclude and include collection or water grips from them, with a view to controlling not exceeding the volume of the dam as given to us 24 million. They, of course, always keep it on 21.. 23. When it was five cc's, they dropped two when it was 14 cc's. It's under control right now. For seven or eight days we'll miss out and go to the mode where there should be a buffer for incoming water. We've witnessed other anomalies. In the Struma River there were 20 cc's, in the Konska River, which no one knew existed The river Iskar at a certain stage was 165 ccs. The Arda River was 800 cc's. 800, five times that! They don't say crazy Arda for a reason. So those stunts that were done there played their part.. Mrs. Petkova mentioned. One dam filled it, dropped it in the next, and dropped it in Ivaylovgrad. The goal was the minimum possible amount to finally drop in the direction of Greece and Turkey, and for now we achieve it about 400 ccs we are, with a tendency to decrease, and of course the dams work in extremely good synchronization with each other. In order not to speculate with figures, I would ask that it be known from the beginning that the energy dams always keep them at 80. 90%, because the purpose is the water in them to produce electricity. And that's why they have a very large responsibility when they're leaking high water, but the teams have been trained for years, they've worked well, and as you can see, in this extreme environment, they've been able to miss the water. The Arda River has many tributaries that in very little time are filled and give a great flow into these three dams. So we had the high water. Two of the stunts used their full volume. In the next few days, they'll be leaking water. Mrs. Petkova also saved to say one of their successes for stunts. All the waters that were to be poured into Maritsa were held in the dams.. evenly, slowly, fed by a dam in a dam, and when the level of the Maritsa river falls. As you know, it is not cleaned around Plovdiv, but it is another topic..... that can not be flooded and Plovdiv, no one understands that water is being leaked without endangering the life, health, ownership of any one. At the moment these stunts release the water that is gathered from the great influx without anyone suffering in any way that does not happen without the synchronization of all institutions. But we don't state it because if we say: we plan to release 60 cc's from the Krichim, you will immediately say: the population is in distress. We've alerted mayors, we've alerted everyone, we've been watching the dikes. After all, it's nature, we can't command it. I hope he answers all the questions later, I won't run away from the answers, but we'll save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Borisov, Minister of Economy, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! I will report on the part of the Ministry of Economy with regard to dams and dams in view of the fact that the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, respectively the Directorate-General of Dams and Dams is a secondary officer of the Ministry of Economy. Due to the severe weather conditions and precipitation throughout the country, we created a crisis headquarters a week earlier at the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, which will carry out solid coordination with absolutely all other state authorities. From the constant connection that we had in this headquarters, and with Professor Brunzov from the Institute of Metrology and Hydrology, I can say that the climate was really extremely heavy, with the precipitation values in the period 7 "12 January 2021" being extremely intense. Minister Dimitrov gave an example, but I will be more specific. In Southeastern Bulgaria, in the area of the town of Ahtopol, 175 liters per square meter, Burgas, 145 liters per square meter, Karnobat. 113 liters per square meter, Elhovo. 129 liters per square meter, Kardzhali. 110 liters per square meter, Grudovo. 139 liters per square meter, Topolovgrad. 105 liters per square meter. Central and Southern Bulgaria, in the region of Devin town 95 liters per square meter, Smolyan sq. Raykovo " 121 liters per square meter." Western and Central Bulgaria, in the Dragoman region of 100 liters per square meter Pernik, 57 liters per square meter, and so on, ever so great data about precipitation. In view of this, I had issued an order and, as I said, the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision was formed a Crisis Headquarters to carry out 24-hour surveillance of all dams for which the Agency is responsible together with the staff of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and the Institute of BAS, which monitored the situation 24 hours a day. This headquarters is working throughout the country with our regional directorates and together with the other services have been following this state. Surrounding teams were formed that were constantly in place. All preventive measures have been taken, and where necessary a controlled release of water volumes from the dams has been made. At this time, there were no emergency situations observed by HQ dams, and I received a report that the situation is now calm. The total number of dams on the territory of the country, which are monitored by the State Agency, is 6844. Of these dams 82% are owned by municipalities, around 766 dams are state-owned and a small percentage are private of agricultural cooperatives. Through DAMTHN we supervised all dams and ponds, and indeed in this period there were points that were relatively more conflicting and had to pay more serious attention. These points were close to the Kostinbrod dam and the Bistritsa dam, Sofia region, where extraordinary inspections were carried out and colleagues were on site all the time. On 11 January there were no visible changes and there were none in the geometrical integrity and structural security of these two dams. During this period, during the main leak and overflows were released volumes within the dimensional water quantities of the facilities. The conflict point of which you know was the Dam of Zemen, located in the municipality of Zemen, Pernik district. On January 8, there was a drop in some of the air vents. A controlled decrease was achieved at the water level through the main leaker, which was then assisted by the hydromodule of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population at the Ministry of Interior. Greater monitoring and intervention by the relevant authorities was held in the dam "Ambaritsa", the municipality of Kirkovo. By 10:00 on January 11th, it was informed that it began a transfusion through the overflow and the main exhaust pipe is likely to be blocked. All actions and coordination have been carried out with the State-owned enterprise "Management and management of dams" and actions have been taken, including heavy equipment. Following the checks it has been found that it is full of cat overflowing edge. The main leaker is clogged due to the descent of land masses and appropriate heavy machinery has been taken to overcome this situation. There was also a similar situation in the Dam of Zornitsa, which is in the municipality of Sredets, Yambol district. The information received for January 12th is about overflowing through the overflow with the possibility of dangerous rise in the water level of the dam. Absolutely all actions have been taken with regard to this dam and the existing real danger of flooding the dam and the flood of the village has been overcome, and measures have been taken again with heavy equipment on 12 January and the situation is actually contained. Similar situations that required more serious monitoring were also in relation to a dam in the village of Karanovo, Most 1 and another one in this area where a controlled discharge, controlled transfusion was carried out. Another more conflicting point is the Dam of Burgas, the municipality of Burgas, whose owner and operator is LUKOYL Neftohim. The situation is under control there as the water is corrected to the Sredetska River. I would like to thank you here, too, because with the amendments to the Water Act, which were adopted, the state's attitude towards these facilities is already quite different and for the first time in 30 years the state has seriously monitored and intervened on these facilities. What I could add to that is that in the case of the declared disaster situation in the various municipalities of the state, none of the already renovated and now renovated dams had a problem. The newly built overflows and the smoky or repaired main leakers provided the necessary conductivity for controlled discharge of the incoming water. This contributed to the built control system of each dam, which helped to obtain timely information about each of these dams. I'm ready to answer questions in addition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we begin with the first round of questions to Minister Terziyski. From the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, allow me, first of all, to express my gratitude for the quick and adequate response of the staff from the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and the police authorities, who by their actions did not allow us to lose human lives and to have seriously injured Bulgarian citizens as a result of these disasters. Dear Minister, my question to you is: now that there is a need to assess quickly the damage caused by the floods, what is the readiness of the Ministry as soon as the proposals of the local authorities are received to convene a meeting of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u30	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to thank the staff of the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection. You know that they react immediately adequately to any change of the situation, no matter what nature. You know, about a month ago, there was a very fast and adequate response to the restraint of a railway wagon where an accident could have occurred that could have been compared to Hitrino. So once again, I would like to thank you for your evaluation. With regard to the readiness to convene the Interdepartmental Commission, the Ministry of Interior is ready immediately after receiving the relevant projects and requests from the mayors of the respective municipalities or from the regional governors of the relevant areas, or from the relevant ministries, which need to overcome damage due to accidents, disasters and floods, to immediately assemble the committee on which I am chairman. Almost every ministry in the Council of Ministers has a deputy minister-level representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. First round of questions from BSP "Please come in Mr. Ivanov." Again, a question to Minister Terziyski of the BSP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u32	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Minister, and I will join in congratulating the staff of the Ministry of Interior, who have done their duty in due course. Unfortunately, our assessment is that in no way have they been preventively and in advance assisted by the authorities that have the commitment in this direction to make their work easier. Just to remind you that the lessons that have been passed on to each of us, mostly from the management of the Ministry of Interior of Miziya, from Asparuhovo have obviously not been accepted and now what has happened has shown us that it is difficult to learn from the old disasters and accidents that have passed over the years. The colleague Tzipov asked you a question, I will further develop it, for the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, which you are in charge of. This committee is tasked with covering unforeseen or urgent costs in the part of preventing, controlling and overcoming the consequences of disasters, as well as preventive activities in preparing for the implementation of disaster protection programmes. If memory serves, last year's budget for this committee was 77 million. lv. My question is: what part of these funds have been spent on purpose to overcome and take preventive action precisely to overcome such disasters that we have witnessed here? I am talking about the territory of Sofia-district, Blagoevgrad, Pernik, Burgas How much of that money was directed in that direction? And for how long, because this is no secret to anyone, this interdepartmental commission will be a party bank, where money is directed in an unknown way and by unknown criteria to certain beneficiaries? [[the President signals that time has run out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Commission, which is headed by the Minister of Interior, has an annual budget of around 80 million. lv. As I said, members of this committee are deputy ministers from almost all ministries. There are representatives of the Association of Municipalities. Last year, I think there were four or five meetings. They shall be present in accordance with requests received from local municipal authorities or regional governors. The requests of these representatives of the local authorities shall be made to the Secretariat. Meetings shall be opened, recorded and voted under the relevant rules of employment of that committee. I would like to emphasise that this budget is indeed approximately 80 million. BGN, but the requests made to the Secretariat of the Commission... The functions of Secretariat shall perform a sector which shall be structured in the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection. The Commission's request for the Commission Secretariat exceeded 320 million. lv. The allocation of funds shall be taken by a full majority in the resolution of the allocation. One part of these funds is for preventive activities, one part of them is for overcoming damage and accidents due to disaster. This is not a party committee. We do not appreciate whether a municipality is led by a mayor of a particular political structure and strength, but by what is the need and need of people to overcome either disasters or to take measures to prevent such elements. Once again, I would like to point out that there are no people who have been injured and who have been killed, but that the situation of precipitation and the overflow of dams and rivers is more favourable than other periods back in time, and thanks to the fact that indeed the single rescue system is working much better and much more coordinated than all members of the executive and local authorities and the volunteers who work for the fire services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u35	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Ahmedov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! I allow myself to use this highest tribune of the Bulgarian public to congratulate all Bulgarian citizens who celebrate today Bango Vassili! Let's wish them safe and sound and, above all, happy! Bachtallo Tumaro Vassily! Let's get to our point. The Ministry of State Disaster and Accident Policy was established in Bulgaria on 17 August 2005 and lasted until 27 July 2009. The Minister of State Disaster and Accident Policy was the central sole body of the executive, which developed and conducted state policy in the field of prevention, overcoming the consequences of disasters and accidents. During this period many positive things have happened in our homeland........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There was also a policy of prevention. After the closure of the Ministry of Disasters and Accidents, there was chaos in our homeland. In the Bulgarian society it was permanently nested that the state was gone and became a stepmother. This is confirmed today, because by hearing several ministers in the National Assembly, the responsibility of the executive is once again blurred. Mr. Minister, our question to you is: what is going on with this specialized equipment and phone 112 and what imposed the release of more than 14 million. lv. for the single number system? What is the vision of the Ministry of Interior for improving the service provided on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. Mr. Minister, please answer Mr. Ahmedov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u38	Thank you. Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection has a high level of equipment, both as a specialized fire extinguishing technique and a technique for overcoming disasters arising from different weather influences. All this is supported by funds from the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Where appropriate, funding funds which can be obtained under different European programmes shall also be used. You know that a shocking renewal of much of the General Directorate's technique and its work has always been a priority for securing by the Ministry of Interior. Staff of the Directorate-General for Fire Safety and Population Protection shall maintain a high level of readiness, shall be provided with all possible means of protection and shall be actively involved in resolving any situation. Once again, I would like to stress that the work in overcoming these disasters is also due to colleagues from other departments and the structures of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Therefore, on the first working day, in the implementation of the Law on Disasters, by order of the Prime Minister Mr. Borisov was created the Staff, which I manage, with members of the respective ministers, members of the relevant organizations, and the Institute of Metrology, Professor Brunzov, on whom we rely very much, on the Institute, on the forecasts. That's why I'm saying the system works, so today we can calmly, with our heads held high, say that we have no harmed people. We don't have any dead people, and all the damage that has been done by these... You see that in our neighbouring countries in Western Europe there is a heavy weather situation. Any damage that has been done, whether to private dwellings or to public or municipal property or to crops, will be secured by the appropriate means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u39	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u40	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr Terziyski, the questions asked to you are mainly about the work of the Commission, not so much about the work of the Ministry of Interior and the relevant departments that you control. This is explained because it is the Commission that has proved to be the body implementing this common coordination for dealing with disasters. DPS colleagues aren't right. When they had the Ministry, they did not have a more proper policy regarding dams. This policy started now in this term with the repair of the Water Act. Luckily, we don't have cases like the flooding in Cockroach with so many deaths. I believe that this governance has made a very serious contribution to the reform of the water sector, and that is why we may not have this time, despite the extremely great challenge with these rainfalls, such great tragedies. However, what I want to ask as a question is related to prevention and mainly to the work on riverbeds, as we know that responsibility for their cleaning is shared between the mayors of municipalities and district governors. Is there a practice that any percentage of the funds that he has in the Commission should be allocated to prevention, specifically to clean riverbeds? If there is and you have the opportunity, of course, to say what is the size of such projects that are financed?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u42	Thank you. Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The Commission to address disasters and preventive activities has a budget and rules on which the provision of preventive activities, and in particular the cleaning of river beds, is within about 15 to 20%. By budget, about 80 million s. 20% per year, there are about 15 million. BGN, which are allocated only to this type of activity. Naturally, it is also consistent with where, by which municipality or by which district management the respective riverbeds are required to be cleaned. We cannot allocate funds that are intended for preventive action to provide activities that are to overcome damage already occurring. I say again: we get together almost once every two months. I'm guessing that after the last few cases, there will be requests from the local authorities, from the district governments. I hope that from mid-February until the end of the month, requests will come in line with all legal requirements. We will take action to rapidly distribute the funds so that as soon as possible we can ensure that the damage is overcome and preventative activity, because we know that as spring months begin to snowmelt and the volumes of our rivers increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. From the Volk Party there will be no question. There are no non-members in parliamentary groups. We continue with the first round of questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. From the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Mrs. Petkova, in fact, unfortunately, we see that climate change affects such emergency situations that have arisen these days. There were times when there had not been a drop of rain in the last few months, especially in Southeast Bulgaria, and now we see floods, dam flooding, landslides, collapses and so on. In fact, there was information in the media that from many such landslides there was a danger to the gas infrastructure, especially the one that is towards Greece, I hope you will give us more information from this point of view. Thank God, we have the richest infrastructure in the Balkans, so there are plenty of places to worry if there are such problems. Tell us, have measures been taken? Is there still a problem with endangering this infrastructure? In fact, let us know what measures have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, Bulgaria's transmission infrastructure is undoubtedly one of the country's most important and strategic energy infrastructures and therefore its normal functioning is of particular importance and of particular importance. It is related both to security of supply, to our energy security and to our national security. What I can say is that within these few days, when there was a complicated weather environment, the gas infrastructure of Bulgaria was functioning perfectly normal. We had one case in the town of Novi Iskar, where as a result of an increase in the level of the river Blato came to a preventive shutdown of the power supply of one of the gas distribution stations of Bulgartransgaz. Subsequently, with the normalization of the river level, this risk was dropped, so there were no serious problems or risks associated with the country's transmission infrastructure. Natural gas supplies were going quite normally. There was no problem with them. There were no problems with the transmission of natural gas to the various points of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u47	Thank you, dear Minister. First question to Minister Petkova from BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we and Mr. Boychev and on behalf of BSP since 2017 are constantly bothering you with the issues of the dams. They are empty, as it was 2017, they are full, as it is today, and they are leaking, and they are creating prerequisites for us to have no dams to deliver water in Bulgaria. In some cases they are already overflowing, which does not speak well about the management of water resources, which are a national wealth of Bulgaria and which could contribute if properly used, for a more normal functioning of the electricity system and a more favourable impact on the electricity prices that consumers pay. Here I have examples from today, and from the 11th. On the 11th, for example, the average exchange price was BGN 97.85. Today, with full dams that could produce electricity, the price is BGN 131.63. ..in the "Day ahead" segment, to be more precise about what we're talking about. In this regard, I would like to ask you a question related to the management of water resources in Bulgaria. We've heard statistically what things look like, but I'm asking you specifically to answer the question: what are the amounts of energy unused waters that have flowed now during this period of precipitation? However, given the accuracy of the weather forecast within at least 10 days and the fact that this precipitation was not entirely unexpected for Bulgaria, could measures be taken not to allow this transfusion and to make use of all water resources for the production of electricity rather than to be uncontrollably leaked into the rivers? I mean, not like a flood, but like an unused energy resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I do not want to begin with a rebuttal of what you said regarding the price of electricity for today, but I will just say that our price against neighbouring exchanges is 30 BGN. Lower. So these are stock prices, they're international. There's no way we can determine the stock price of electricity. That's another topic. We've talked to you many times. Regarding the management of water resources, Minister Dimitrov explained very thoroughly how the country's water resources are actually managed in this critical situation. What we have heard, and what we all know, is that the country's water resources in this complicated weather situation are managed fully adequately and according to all the requirements relating to the secure operation of these facilities, and the facts show it. The most important thing we have to do is to protect people's lives and health, and that is a fact. As for the National Electric Company, I mentioned that the National Electric Company manages and manages some of the largest, most significant and complex dams of Bulgaria. Fortunately for us, the National Electric Company manages these facilities in the best way. They're maintained, they're sure. They work fully in accordance with all the rules and requirements for effective work and secure work. All the facilities, all the hydropower plants and PAVEC that the National Electric Company owns, worked at full power and continue to operate at the present time. There's no way that a certain dam wouldn't miss out on certain quantities and they wouldn't fly over. The fact is, every one of these facilities has a overflow. These are quite normal processes that are taking place. As you know, the amount of water supply in these facilities depends neither on the government nor on the opposition So when there are such precipitations, of course, the volume of these dams becomes larger, so they have the corresponding overflowing facilities and with the controlled release there is never a problem in this direction. Once again, I would like to say that the dams that the National Electric Company manages and, as we have heard, the management of water resources is fully adequate and consistent with all requirements so that the Bulgarian citizens can be calm about their lives and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms to Minister Petkova? I won't. From the United Patriarchs? No question. The Bulgarian Rhodophilizers? No question. There are no non-members in the parliamentary group. We are moving on to the questions about Minister Dimitrov. Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My question to the Minister of Environment and Water is: after heavy rainfall in recent days, Mr. Minister, will you be able to give us information on the state of the dams monitored by the Ministry of Environment and Water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to start in a row with the dams, we have 52, which contain 85% of the water resources. Iskar Reservoir has water for about three and a half years, but regardless of everything this year we did not use the main leaker and this year we will have to test it. We have entered in connection with Sofia Municipality to secure the route, which is many kilometers from the dam of Iskar to Sofia, so that we do not create a problem. This month there was a norm of 10 million to pass for energy, we'll give another 10. The schedule has been amended to lower the level of the dam, as the reservoir is very large. There is no problem with the dam, there is plenty of water and we are currently maintaining the level to be safe. "Belli Iskar" is one of the two dams that are currently showing a decrease in volume and traditionally in the autumn we drop it lower. The river bar is always at the 98th 99% dam in Northern Bulgaria, very well managed, powered by two districts and about 60 settlements. There, however, the water can always be turned off and the dam can remain on the same level. It is extremely well managed by Vratsa Water, which consumes water and Montana Waters. From a maximum volume of 27 700 at the moment there is 26 155 we have made an amendment, we have allowed them to have a slightly larger volume. My personal opinion is that they have to start dropping it so that they have 2.3 million volume in which they can fit the water. However, we must not forget that summer everyone wants water and then they will ask us: why did you miss it? Yovkovtsi dam is fine. It's one of the anomalies. This is the Black Sea coast. You know, there's a lot of water pouring out there. It went from 45 to 78 million. In 80 million, Kamchiassias has the necessary amount of water above the dead volume, which will reach for a whole year. Last year 80 million were spent, of course, with the restrictions imposed, but we have water as it was spent last year, so to this year. The problem is, if it doesn't rain any more, what are we going to do in these 3 months when eventually next year we have to wait for the full water. So for the time being, "Kamchia" does not create problems of drinking-bit nature for this year, a great deal of water has been poured out. And here is one of the anomalies of the dam....the pool of the dam.... is 10 km from the dam....Ticha Dam. There's a million and a half million and seven hundred. There was no water, and Stara Planina divided them and their watershed is 10 km away. There was also very little water in the dam, and it is in the Black Sea. We saw how much water was in the rivers, there were flooded roads, and the dam was small. There's a dam next to a dam in one, and there's no dam in the other. We've got water for two years at the dam. Right now, let's give 6 million to the farmers, let's not forget that it is an agricultural dam, and all the remaining water for two years will be for the citizens of the three cities that power Targovishte, Veliki Preslav and Shumen. We've had no problem in two years. I told you, plain lawn didn't fill up with the volume we expected, even though there was a lot of water pouring out there. Asenovets is 12 million in net worth, it's next to Sliven. They can draw from two places from wells that are along the river Tundzha and from the dam. Last year, we were trying to balance and we did it. The dam held at a good level, but the summer when the drilling began to dry, we relied almost entirely on the dam. The problem is that the summer, August, was the drilling crisis, but if it happens in April, we must have water in the reservoir of Zherebchevo, from which to run on the Tundzha River. Asenovets is fine. In general all our dams are fine and to date there is water for at least one year, some have for three, and others have for two Borovitsa dam is full and in Studena you know what happened. Coldena played the role of buffer. There was three and a half million free volume in it, and in order not to drop on the Struma River, we filled it up and started a controlled release. Just for example, at five cc's of revenue, we missed two, and at 14 cc's of flow, we missed seven. To date, there are four ccs of flow, seven cc's and a half we're dropping, including the water for Pernik, so it's okay. You see, it doesn't overflow anywhere, and at the same speed we've been dropping it since last Friday. Dyakovo dam is full as never before 30 000 568, we have no problem, four reserve dams. I'm going to the irrigation dams because it's the worst place. I will not talk about energy because Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova told everything in detail. We keep them as full as we can, but we can't afford to miss a salvo just because we have to wait for them to overflow and then miss them. They're well-managed there. We managed to save Maritsa from overcrowding, we managed to get Arda in the direction of Turkey and Greece to flush very little water. It is an extremely important dam for farmers and for the whole region, people rely on it. We have a series of meetings. It must remain for both drinking and irrigation, because otherwise farmers there are many people, 40 km system must dig, and there is no water there. Even if they dig, there's no drilling. In general, I would say that the agricultural dams are full of 39.6%. We are making efforts for the Sandstorm Dam to reserve quantities of "Bellmeken" so that the summer can have water for all farmers. There's been an effort. Pchelina Reservoir is a sedimentary dam. It's just a overflow, a water run, as much as it goes in, as it overflows. We cannot reserve volumes and the water from there goes free, flowing to Turkey. In national terms, we have 68.3% of the total water supply volume available. We don't have a dam that can't satisfy the population this year. All our dams have sufficient resources thanks to the recent rains, thanks to the situation at the beginning of the winter season, and we had booked enough quantities. Agricultural is 39.6% and energy is 86.6%, so this year, if we are properly managing the waters, we should not have a problem. Of course, for agriculture, we need to make huge efforts to reschedule it precisely into these 3 dams, which are currently at extremely low levels. We're working this way. In order not to have to explain it one more time there were climate changes, there were three years of drought. The trend is towards these 52 nationally significant dams to target many water reservoirs because their drilling is drying out, karst regions, falling down, decreasing the flow rate and we may need to include more dams in the future or more water reservoirs to the 52 nationally significant ones available. Therefore, we must protect them and store them, as surface water is our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u55	Thank you, dear Minister. Is there a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party? I can't see. Will there be a question for Minister Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u56	Gentlemen and Mrs Ministers, fellow Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, we have heard from you again how the dams are filled. Last week it was empty, now it's full, and I can basically see that things are regulated by the drinking dams and the water supply. In connection with the events of a few days ago, I have labored to read a lot of the preventive measures that must be taken to prevent or limit the damage to these floods, which happened by starting with the afforestation of erotic areas, cleaning of ravines, river beds, river bed corrections, identifying and marking a map of the areas threatened by floods in intense rains, even promoting property insurance against floods. This is to Mr. Minister of the Interior, even if it is to you. Reports should be prepared together with the Ministry of Interior and the regional governors on the passage of derets and rivers throughout Bulgaria. You didn't mention before, Mr. Minister, whether there are any, we didn't hear the prevention of what is, how much money has been allocated, what programs, the information about the allocation of these funds and the allocation of these programmes. Here Mr. Dimitrov said: one dam is full, another dam is empty, one if it overflows can go to the other and so on, but I want to stop your attention to an idea started as early as 2013. A national water management system should have been established under the Operational Program OPOS in real time. In 2018, as I recall, it was widely proclaimed by you, the managers, the pilot project, the first step of this real-time water monitoring idea in the Iskar river basin, measures have been set out, there is a procedure. After all, if we see the map and scope of this project, we will see the reports that we have seen for a few days from such places that come within the scope of this project - Sofia Municipality, Gorna Malina, there is no point in listing them. This project is worth about 7 million. lv. and according to current data, no more than a million and a half have been used up so far. So, Mr. Dimitrov, is this project one of those that needs to be implemented because it has to be completed next year in April? So far, with the million and a half that have been used, it has been failed and, as a pilot project, condemns the entire strategy that the state has been planning since 2013. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u58	...for the establishment of such a national real-time water management system.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u59	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The best system, Mr. Genov, works in Burgas. First they made it, it's nice, it works real, you can see it. Did this prevent the floods in Burgas? Notify them in time, but he couldn't stop them. I gave an example that if you bathed in a bathtub for four months, but you bathed once with all the water, you didn't take it. Okay, if at one intersection four months pass cars in weekdays, on holiday days and you decide in four hours to spend all the cars, that's exactly the situation when four months of water is poured out in four hours. And yet in the same Burgas, in Yasna Polyana, there was no water, in Kamchia. And in Porroy and Aheloy did not come, there was also no water in Ticha. It is in the same place where the biggest rain was. As far as the program is concerned, I almost fully share your opinion and not about anything else, but because I have not seen anything from it. When I went to the Ministry, I said: "But this is obviously a super secret program, since I see nothing from this program after all these years. " Instead of doing things and going back years, I'm waiting for some court procedures to pass, I chose to set up a management center. Not only did we make this center, you saw it, but it is now completely renewed to take all the dams that are drinking, energy and that are for irrigation, including an air monitoring room for all chimneys, and a room that is for waste. It's just that next week he'll be found, you've never seen one. I invited you to the Ministry once and you didn't come. I don't need to invite you anymore, you'll see it on TV. As far as river basins are concerned, we have an announcement on the Danube River, and we are also working on that to see which are for flooding and flooding. Indeed, when the Danube comes, we know what the bay is, but we want to have it as a model and see it. We know what happens to rivers at a certain flow rate. But I'll tell you something from last year's practice. I apologize, I hope I'm not too long in my speech to last a long time. Zhrebchevo Reservoir has powered two or three districts of Nova Zagora, Sliven, Yambol, Elhovo. When the month of August began to dry out the drilling, if there was no drinking water, we had to lose water resources to water the same river Tundja, which has been leaking to Maritsa for 15 years, not Tunja. And when we had to open from Koprinka Dam 5 million to move to Zrebchevo Dam to use them for the citizens for drinking-bit, to dew the Tundzha River, it turned out that 400 million could flow through the overflow. The riverbed is measured at 100 cc's per second. I asked no more than 20 by hanging one, two, three, four, five to 20 and in three days to hold it. But 20 was the maximum size at which we didn't allow it to spill and flood. It's set for 100, and it works with 20. Analog is the situation throughout the country. The mayors say: we have no money, they cut down the big trees, the others are not interested, they are largely dumping junk into the river: So what you see in Svoge now is hardly waste from Svoge. The waste is from Sofia, but no one in Sofia will admit it. None of the mayors in Sofia! So we have a problem with clearing the riverbeds, the conduction, which is, but it is the duty of both the mayor and the district governors. Lawsuits are filed on a case-by-case basis. It's a very bad situation at the moment. Our control functions are to issue acts, to issue prescriptions and to do them, but you must not believe that we are the ones who have to clean the rivers. It's not our job. It's the mayor's, and when you're collecting garbage, be so kind as to make use of it, not throw it in the ravine, take it to the regional landfill, not put it in the old one or dump it in the river again. Everything you're seeing right now in Svoge didn't make it the Ministry of Environment and Water. This is the waste that has gathered from the great overflowing wave in the territory of the whole of Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question to Minister Dimitrov of the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms"? Mr. Chakarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u62	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Dimitrov, the media has started to report weather forecasts of upcoming dangerous rain showers with snow in different places in the country since the middle of last week. By Thursday, meteorologists had already begun to report warnings of expected dangerous amounts of precipitation in places marked with yellow and orange code. Until Sunday last week, there were, unfortunately, no statements from the Ministry, which is the ministry, as well as the negotiators said, with responsibility for the prevention of the flood and should implement policy, steps and actions in this direction. Monday this week, when the media presented the picture of water-sanked half of Bulgaria, flooded roads, houses and so on, the whole picture is known to us, again there was no position from the MoEW. In view of this, my question is: was the MOEW available early enough with weather forecasts and the expected rain and snow showers from January 9th at different locations of the country and with the warning, as meteorologists have already indicated, with different codes of yellow and orange? Was there an analysis of the risks of flooding and were there recommendations sent to the other ministries, as you pointed out, to the mayors, the district managers, to irrigation systems and so on, not to list them all, which are included as obligations of the Ministry of Environment and Water? In what way did the MOEW fulfill its responsibilities for flood prevention? No one is stronger than nature, we all know that, but if they had taken preliminary steps and actions, perhaps the picture we saw in the country on January 11th would not have been so serious with the consequences we see. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, two more sentences. Naturally, I am convinced that knowing the expertise of the Directorate of Waters, of the Basin Directorates, such an analysis has been made, but my question is whether the recommendations to the responsible entities in this case have been moved? And I just want to remind you that three years ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u64	...in the MOEW, flood risk management plans have been adopted, and in this context there should be identified measures, and they are identified, and in what way in this context they are implemented with a view to prevention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u65	Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, are you asking what happened in the last week? I'll give you an example only with Pernik, then with the other dams. Back in Pernik, we met with the manager of the water service at Pernik, with the district manager in Pernik. We read how much water we had at that time had 3.5 million reserves, we could keep it in the reservoir of Studena and then, when the water drained, start a planary discharge. Ask the police, I went there four times from last Friday to yesterday, the "Studena" for this period I mean, with the governor, and alone, and the cameras from Sofia are watching it. In the same way on Thursday, when we received the first weather reports, we came into contact with NEK, with Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, we have assessed what free volumes we have in all the stunts. The goal was to drop them evenly and only when the water drained will it leave. We have sent notes, letters through the Foreign Ministry, as are our agreements with Turkey and Greece and three rivers in Turkey, in Greece also three rivers, and let them know that we expect a high wave. There was a red code for Edirne. For Adrianople, according to the weather conditions, it was a red code, it had to be flooded from everywhere, and we were three rivers passing. Maritsa is where Tunja and Arda are gathered. Edirne wasn't flooded. I saw it with the binoculars yesterday. It went well. Yesterday I was at Ivaylovgrad Dam and we were in constant contact with the energy minister because we are missing dams in each other. In Ivaylovgrad, the three turbines of 270 cc, release over 300. We must inform, and we have notified twice before then Greece in a timely manner. It's not about the event, it's about getting ready not to cause any damage. And there's over 300 cc's of it, and we just overrun it yesterday. Then, of course, you can't run 800 cc on one side of a dam, wait for it to run only 300 cc on the other side. We've got a slightly higher wave, we've notified it in due course, and she's, meanwhile, dropping. We've closed the second dam and we're leveling the levels. That is why I said at the beginning of my speech that we are working well with Energy, exchanging information, whatever problems we are dealing with, but all the stunts that could cause problems, on the contrary, played the role of buffer. All the dams, including the drinking dams, took a huge amount of water so we wouldn't miss it. In Pernik, they said the water was cloudy. What about Vitosha, all of it pours out there, what kind of water would it be? He'll be fine in a day or two, but he played the buffer role so we wouldn't flood Pernik. And that goes for all the dams in the country. We've been notified in due course, we've made an organization. By the way, all district managers with the weather are notified in a timely manner. We've also been notified, including the conduction of riverbeds, but we know where there are problems, not cleared. In the case of the pipeline, which was for Greece, the problem is that there is a nano in the middle of the river and it turns the water right towards the foundation of the pipeline. Well, it had to be cleaned up by the district manager in a timely manner, didn't clean it up. I don't mean guilt or responsibility. I'm telling you what the current situation is. And Mrs. Petkova was worried about the pipeline, and we were worried. Yesterday I was there until the night of the dam Ivaylovgrad people were there, they saw it. We distributed our country by zones and each within their capabilities went and observed a dam given a stunt. We've conducted the waters. No one understands. In the coming days we will bring down the regime of these volumes that the next rain can take, and so we continue, as it was years before Mrs. Petkova and I became ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u68	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question to you, Minister of Environment and Water, is related to the state of rivers and riverbeds. We have witnessed the exit from the troughs of many rivers in Bulgaria, which in recent days have flooded agricultural areas and settlements. You, of course, were quite specific and detailed when you made the initial statement here from the stands, but let's still hear a little bit more about this question of what the reasons that led to it. And what I personally am impressed with is that in many of the settlements in which a disaster has been declared are in Western Bulgaria and are the same places that suffered in the big flood in 2014. So give a little more details about the causes and is there a way and opportunities to avoid reaching such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u69	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bogdanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm gonna have to explain something. There are several active ministers here Mr. Chakarov, you were Minister of Ecology, and Mrs. Vasileva, there are deputy ministers here in the Chamber, ministers of energy who are here in the Chamber, and deputy ministers, and people who deal with this. Since the cameras are on, I have to take this. The question is extremely correct, Mr. Bogdanov. The riverbeds should be cleaned when we have high waves, when the dams have to miss out. When there's a low wave, the dam misses, no one understands. At the moment, Studena dam releases five cc's, no one will know it's leaking them because there's no water, but when it's high water, and when there's trees, and when there's waste dumped, let's not say junk, on the derettas, they collect. Two or three trees have happened to be clogged, and a bridge acts as a threshold, a wall, and floods begin. However, these riverbeds are not always sized. Specifically in the case in Sofia, when you saw huge agricultural areas flooded with water, it was actually an event that aimed to ease the pressure in the river. Irritating systems came and volunteered to spoil one of the dikes, compromise it so that about a million million and two hundred cubic meters of water could flood a whole field of irrigation systems, but ease the level of the river. He relieved him, he could have done more, but he had nowhere to go so much water. So very often, when irrigation systems compromise their dikes, it's so that we can allow the downstream population not to get such a high wave, and in time it drains and then starts reclamation. Rivers don't get cleaned up. People are massively dumping their waste into the derettas, counting on the water to come and take it. When the bridge is blocked in his village, he comes and says, "Where is the state?" When he's in the next one, he doesn't care. I'll set an example with Svoge. I don't know why you keep saying this case, but when we have a stunt of mermaid power plants, each of them cleans their trees and derettas to the previous plant, because they don't come and make them a problem with the facilities. And you know that if you have a series of power plants between them, the trees are clean, but that doesn't apply to the waste that is largely dumped in the deres and in the wrong places, and at one high wave, they all went to Svoge. Those from Svoge will go to Mezdra, those from Mezdra will go to Roman, those from Roman in Pleven, and so everyone says: I have waste, but does not say where it is from. We need to make a notification campaign to keep people from dumping their waste, TVs, refrigerators, who finds what in the derettas, because in one wave they enter the Iskara in the case of the other big rivers, and we have huge problems. Go to any dam there's no dumps, there's only fishermen. Look at the wind on the dam how many bottles, how many waste collects, and no one around the dam. So this is something that we all need to make an effort to dispose of waste in designated sites, not to make illegal landfills. Including we have mayors who, in order to make it cheaper for them, instead of the regional depot for miles, are trying to solve their problem palletally using old dumps or whatever. I specifically want to set an example for Svoge. They have dumps above the railroad. In fact, I'm just trying to figure out how to help them reclamate it. If tomorrow this dump as a result of the rain pours and falls on the railway, does it mean that BDZ becomes the owner of this waste? Because at the moment that they have in the river, all of a sudden everybody's running away and no one knows where it's from, and we're presumably in two scenarios: the aliens have brought this waste or, a second, somewhere in town halls. Since no mayor has confessed, it's the aliens. We know exactly what this is and it's Sofia's waste and it's there. If the dump crashes in Svoge and falls on the railroad, it'll still be in Svoge. We have to take care, but not wait for something to happen then, but a little preventative. Perhaps you should increase the fines for those who dump waste in unregulated places for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the Volya, Mr. Netsov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, Bulgaria has been buried with garbage since yesterday. A bunch of trash came out after yesterday's floods in some parts of the country. As we all know, the problem with waste hasn't been since yesterday. We remember, in 2014, after heavy rainfall due to illegal construction in the Varna district, 13 people lost their lives. Years later, a mass of waste continues to be disposed of in the ravine. We understand that to this day, waste is also being disposed of in the Iskar River. At the start of the project with European funds in 2016 worth 6 million. lv. Iskar River control seems to have failed. In 2014 we learned from a report by the Bulgarian National Television that tons of waste were being poured into Dragalevska River. Due to the floods in recent days, garbage has also been brought from the river to the town of Sredets. Our question to you is: how long will the pouring of junk into unregulated dumps that can lead to a great tragedy, and then who will be guilty and who will take responsibility? You have answered many of the questions in part, and many of them were otherwise intertwined, but thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u73	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u74	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Netsov, you're asking me about the use of water isn't exactly water, but we've figured out the big problem by the water. I always said the state paid three times for the same thing, the result was gone. You don't know how important the question is that you asked me, how much it pains me for what happened right now. In Bulgaria there was in every village, every city dump. Instructions have come, we have entered the European Union and we must meet all the requirements accordingly. The state gave money to shut down all the dumps. For four or five of them, however, we will now be paying huge fines, because since 2009, 2015 we have been convicted. We are constantly explaining that we are making efforts in the end the mayors, as they do not pay out of their pocket the fines, and somewhere there the state pays them, some did not make any effort at all. They made a lot of effort and succeeded, closed down, reclamated the dumps. But we have six or seven dumps that haven't even begun to reclamate them, and we're gonna be paying huge fines for what happened. There are two reasons. In my opinion, there shouldn't have been a number of possibilities for reclamation, but it should have been one. For example, the PDOOS from the beginning to all to reclamate them all. Whether to give the mayors and start some companies, some appeals, or to take one contractor to make them across the country is also some kind of solution. The state once gave money through the PUDOS, including the state budget, I mean there. The second time, let's also be with European money. The Operational Programme "Environment" and hence funds are given. Finally, the result will be a penalty procedure for three or four city halls. I don't think it's fair at all, even because of the efforts of all the other mayors. But the elections are coming, the new mayor doesn't care 20 years before him what happened and we are in the following situation: local dumps are closed, some of the mayors, however, rather than driving them to regionals, which is a lot of money, prefers in the local one he puts, buries, puts, buries, ignites and of this variety of combinations. And we fight them all the time not to use the old and already closed as active. They say that there are only unloading them, overloading for others all the gymnastics, not explaining them, becoming a textbook for the mayor. Regional depots, because it was expensive for them, were found as in the river where they had been thrown out. They have a contract with regionals, they have a place to take them, but it's more expensive. Of course they collect money for the more expensive, but they don't take it there, they throw it in the river and when the water comes, where did these waste come from? So the big problem, the big pain that we said it, it's gonna be another two months next to think about it. But we gave money once to shut down the locals, provided funds and European funds to open regional ones. The funds were provided, it is a long process that continued during Mrs. Vasileva's time, so I look at it, to give shredders, machines to make everything valuable to be removed for recycling and only 10, 20, 25% to be placed in the cells. What's the situation right now? The state gave money, made regional depots with cells that had to last 15 years, some 10, some 7, 15 years. They're full on the sixth year. Why? Because they don't recycle, they don't work the equipment, they hit everything, and at some point they say, "What do you want me to do, it's full, it's supposed to be 15, where is the state to make me another cell, and if I can have another cell?" And the goal is now who gets the Prime Minister to take him to a full dump and say: please help yourselves, then we know it shouldn't be like that, but if you could just make an exception for us. And what was the purpose of the Law when they did it? I wasn't even a deputy then. Regional depots are being created, garbage tax is being made. From this junk charge is made, which collects it is their money, and when the new cell is needed, we give it the money and receive a new cell. Now what did we do? We gave them all the money to spend this year, you made your decision. We don't have any money, give us that money! In two years, what will be the debate in this room? I wish you all could be here, of course, I wish you were MPs. What do we do when half the cells are full and we don't have money for new ones? Where's the country? And the whole mechanism we're building, we're making new ones, we're making additional facilities to reduce the landfill waste, we're collecting fees to make the new depot. It's all forgotten. Then someone will come out and say: do you know how good it would be to change the law, to charge fees and when the time comes for a new cage to build their cage? Yes, this has already been done and has been vitiated by the giving of funds all this year, and for last year. It's their money. It's the municipalities' money. They're having difficulties, I understand them. But when the time comes for the waste cells to be full, two years will be the big rush. In two years, they'll all start because they're scheduled for 15, but the 6th are full, including waste from abroad. Then it'll be the big problem! I'm going back to Mr. Netsov's question. Mayors of the city, some on purpose, others by accident, not knowing that it happens, do unregulated dumps, are most often around rivers or ravines that enter rivers in water. They're not secure, they're trying to bury them with a little bit of land, so they can reclamate them, hide them. With water, everything goes into the river and then we see it in Svoge and not list the whole chain on all the rivers. The problem with the dumps. With the money to be raised by municipalities, it will be extremely sharp in two years, three years, when all cells in the country of the already built, including European money, regional reserves are filled and then it will be: I have no money, what to do, where is the state? Let the next minister think about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I do not see a question from non-members in parliamentary groups. First round of questions to Minister Borisov. From the parliamentary group of GERB? I can't see. From the parliamentary group of BSP Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Dear Mr. Borisov, in 2018, after another devastating flood in panic, the government launched another butaphory, setting up a state-owned company to manage and manage dams. 500 million were granted. Then twice by decrees of the Council of Ministers in August, when the parliament rests and the people are on leave, an additional 13 million more were allocated. BGN, i.e. 550 million lv. Since then, many times the BSP parliamentary group and I have personally asked you questions where this money is? Basically what you say in your answers is that you design. There hasn't been a single dam built in four years. In this regard I will give you an example with socialist Bulgaria. For four years between 1949 and 1953 35 large dams were built in Bulgaria, between which dam is 20 km long and 5 km wide. In Gerbadjii Bulgaria for four years against 550 million you cannot repair a wall. This money, which was granted to "Montajji" there is no way "Montaj" to do any repair of any dam, because this enterprise has 30 people per state and three shovels in its assets. With 30 people and three shovels, dear colleagues, you can divert money, but you can't build dams and dams...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u78	In that regard, I still have ten seconds left. I have two questions for you specifically, Minister. When are you going to give an accurate account of where the 550 million is in front of Parliament and the citizens?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u80	And when will you give information have you fixed the status of all these dams and how many of these dams are actually in the assets of the state enterprise?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u81	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u82	Okay, I get it. I asked for 10 seconds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u83	35 But I ask you, my fellow Members, when you speak from the stand, make a good assessment of how long you will speak in common and how you will ask the questions. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Lord President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, perhaps, going back to the amendment to the Water Act, we should clearly say what is written in it, because you have currently mixed two institutions that are responsible for dealing with these problems. On the one hand, this is the state-owned enterprise "Management and management of dams" which accepts dams from municipalities, and they have actually accepted them from the former TTZS. And the second is the trading company, which is determined by law and by a decision of the Council of Ministers, which must carry out appropriate repairs. So in your question, you mixed these two things. I'll try to make the difference and tell you how what stands. According to the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision in Bulgaria there are 6844 dams. Those designated for repairs by decision of the Council of Ministers are 416. 62 of them are state-owned and are provided for the management and management of other institutions or companies there are NEK, "Zeminvest" and "Irrigation systems" and so on, 29 dams are dedicated to concessions in which they are relevant. For 20 dams were received opinions from the municipalities that they have brought the dams in good operational condition and no repair work is needed at the moment. There are still 305 dams in which the State Consolidated Company has the appropriate commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u85	What are these general answers
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u86	I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u87	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u88	Thank you. Launching renovations on some of the dams is slowing down. Why? Because municipalities stop the process because by law, if they do not transfer them to the state, they remain municipal property, the State consolidation company should charge these funds to the municipalities. But as of January 13th, the State consolidation company has entrusted the survey, the design, the implementation of repair and reconstruction activities to 208 dams. For each dam prior to the preparation of a technical project, an on-site survey shall be carried out, geodetic measurements, geological studies, analysis, technical status, filtration of the wall and many more technical stages since the start of the work. All projects are approved by the Expert Council of six engineers Professor, Associate Professor, Doctor of Industrial and Civil Construction, Hydrotechnical Construction, Hydrology, Engineering Geology and all such specialists. As of January 13th, I have approved projects for 159 dams. The value of the planned repair works is 386,7 million. lv. Their design value is 12.5 million. lv. Of these, with open construction sites. 101 number of dams, i.e. 101 number of open construction sites. The amount of the planned repair works for them amounts to 243,16 million. lv. Their design value is 7,88 million. lv. Here is the entire list of 101 dams under which activity is carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u89	Is there any finished?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u90	There have been completed the fields of 70 dams from the above at the moment. The dams under which repair and reconstruction activities have been carried out are located in the territory of the whole country in more than 40 municipalities. There are 58 dams left, for which no construction site has been found, but the approval procedures of the Expert Council have been completed. In the process of design are 26 other dams. Completely completed at the moment and five dams have been surrendered. Others are fully completed and the documentation for 30 dams is currently being transmitted. Thank you. I have a list. I can give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with the questions to Minister Borisov. Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Borisov, in your presentation you mentioned that given the complicated weather situation, immediately a Crisis Headquarters was formed for the management of dangerous situations and conflict points. In order to minimize the risk of disasters, however, prevention and control are extremely important. The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision is the authority responsible for the supervision of dams and facilities to them, as well as for ensuring safe operation of dams by carrying out reliable and effective control of technical condition and safe operation of dams and facilities thereto. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: how many checks and how many acts have been made by the State Agency for 2020? How many of the dams were found to have been in an emergency or dangerous condition? What measures have been taken to improve their technical status?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u93	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, infringements related to the non-insuring of measures to maintain dams and facilities to them in proper technical condition have been detected for 2020. The owners of dams, and these are 351 acts for the identification of administrative violations and penalties, were issued 189 penal decrees. The total number of self-checks carried out by DAMTHN staff in the last four years is 17 745 pieces. The prescriptions for the checks of dams on the technical documentation for their safe technical operation for that period shall be 20 734. The number of checks carried out together with the Commissions under the Law on Waters of Regional Governors for the same period is 7981 pieces. The number of acts drawn up over the last four years is 1664 pieces. This is for 2020 and the number of penal decrees issued is 1157. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a question for Minister Borisov from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I can't see. From the United Patriarchs? Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u96	Dear Minister, since the subject on which we are asking the questions is narrowed down, there may be some overlap in my question. But I am interested in you specifically telling and explaining to the MPs what is the reason for delaying the process of transferring dams from one kind of property to another kind of property. In addition, I would like to ask: after the dams are transferred, are the municipalities no longer interested and are they still helping you in carrying out the relevant events? As for the fact that in the four years nothing has been done, I would like to express my own opinion that in these years a rather large-scale maintenance work has really started, in correcting what has been done in the four years from 1949 to 1953. But let us not forget, honourable MPs, that in these four years Bulgaria is going to a strict party system and people in the villages are starving. And this huge building that we're in is also built in this period with huge funds, absolutely unnecessary, for an absolutely unnecessary organization then, which will be located in these huge offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u97	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, your question is rather leaning towards the other institution. The reasons for the delay are several. A huge number of dams the enterprise receives from municipalities were built in the period up to the 1970s and their technical situation did not comply with the regulatory requirements. And it turns out that these dams do not have any design documentation, lack of construction projects and documents, which creates the whole process of handing over these dams to the State, which also turns out to be a question of renovation, because when the DKK is renovating, and the dam is municipal, it will have to invoice it and this is one of the risks at the moment. In the beginning the municipalities were more active and so their requests for the supply and transmission of dams for the benefit of the state were for 2812 pieces. In the Ministry, we have information that in respect of 1538 dams there is a decreed refusal by the district governors because the documentation available to the municipalities is not adequate to carry out this transfer. Currently, 415 dams are operated in State-owned enterprises, of which 38 dams are of unclear ownership, but the law says that those with unclear ownership are operated by this enterprise; 377 of these dams have completed a transfer procedure and have been accepted for integrated management by the State-owned enterprises. I have a breakdown by districts: most of them are in Blagoevgrad at least I see they are in Veliko Tarnovo 11. As regards 259 of these transferred dams, expert and technical advice has been carried out, relevant proposals have been made for future operation, including for repair and reconstruction activities. This enterprise is responsible for their maintenance, not for major repairs. But what I can say is that at the moment, construction works have been assigned to 96 dams from those in the state enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are continuing with a question for Minister Terziyski. From the parliamentary group of GERB? I won't. The Bulgarian Socialist Party? Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u100	Dear Minister, dear Mr Chairman, honourable colleagues! On the basis of art. 19th para. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters Guidelines have been created for the development and preparedness for the implementation of disaster protection plans. According to these instructions, regional and municipal councils should be established to reduce the risk of disasters. Since these advices interact with the Ministry of Internal Authorities, my question to you is: how many tips have been created; do they have plans for disaster protection; have you provided methodical guidance regarding your powers? Finally, how many funds have been allocated and spent on disaster prevention? I will mention only three of the most affected areas: Sofia-district, Pernik and Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u101	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my initial presentation, I said that the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection (CSD) was co-ordinated with all district councils for action under the Law on Disasters and Accidents and issued an order to the Prime Minister for the convening of the National Headquarters. With regard to preventive activities, I cannot now give you a full response to the allocation by the Commission, but I can give you an example of the last meeting held in the middle of December 2020. In section "Preventive activities', the Commission has allocated the following funds. Importer of the request is the municipality of Rakovski for emergency cleaning of the Srebra river in a certain section of Plovdiv district. In Sofia region is importer Etropole for correction of the river river river river river. Also in the section "Preventive activities" of Haskovo Haskovo District is the importer of the request for reconstruction of the correction and restoration of the conduction of the Haskovo River. The last funds allocated are for Shumen District at the request of Shumen Municipality to strengthen the banks of the Enchova River Once again, I would like to say that the demands that come into the Commission for the recovery of damage from disasters and accidents are over 300 million. BGN, while at the same time from the defined budget for this commission BGN, we take advantage of preventive activities and distribute funds of not more than 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u103	Thank you, dear Minister. Question to Minister Terziyski of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I can't see. From the United Patriarchs? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Terziyski, the question I am about to ask you is extremely important for the national security of the state and for me personally. My question is related to the possible damage, and are there any on the protective fence facility along our border with Turkey? The reason I asked this question is the extremely aggressive, large-scale and manipulative campaign three years ago, which was conducted by one of the representatives of an opposition party, with falsified photos, with photos from the time of the construction, on the occasion that in several places in the extremely heavy terrain of Strandzha the fence was taken away from the water element, I repeat, three years ago. The reason I asked this question is the coincidence that maybe a random natural coincidence that then the flow rate of precipitation per square meter was 170 liters per square meter. Quite by chance, the flow rate of the fallen precipitation is again 170 liters per square meter in the area of Malko Tarnovo. For all who are not aware of the issue, I just want to remind you that the current rainfall is of the order of 60, 70, 80 liters per square meter on average for the country and in these rainfall bridges were carried away, interurban roads were interrupted, heavy damage to a building fund and agricultural land was caused at nearly twice the rainfall. I want to know if there have been any damage to the security fence along the border with Turkey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u105	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, as of yesterday morning at the order of Prime Minister Kichikov, has been seconded to the region of Svilengrad, and today he is in the area of the GPU. Indeed, the forecasts that the Institute of Metrology gave were such that yesterday and today are expected to increase the waters in these particular areas. I also have photos sent from the site, and at the border crossing yesterday in the area of Svilengrad, there is also an increase in the water level in the respective rivers, but also flooded areas in the area of this border police station, from which floods are affected parts of the partition facility, but we have no compromise of the building facility as a whole. Chief Commissioner Kichikov is today in the area of the GPU.. Malko Tarnovo, and it is found that there is no fall of the partition facility. There is a detection of whirlpools and clasps in the lower part of the partition facility, but immediately action is taken to open, unblock the appropriate discharge shafts in the area of this section of the border. The relevant talks and meetings were held with the district governors of Yambol and Haskovo and Burgas, who have a commitment to the maintenance and repair of the partition facility, so everything is fine. The colleagues of the Border Police are giving timely signals to take action so as not to compromise this facility of ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u107	Are there any drop-outs?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u108	There are two sails that are currently being repaired in the area of the GPU. Just two sails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Second question to Minister Petkova. Procedure? Mr. Petrov, come in. Mr. Boychev, wait for Mr. Petrov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u110	Mr. President, I ask you to intervene, as there is only one MP in the entire Chamber who is without a mask who has passed by you to register just a moment ago when he comes to work and ask for the order to be put in place in this National Assembly. There's a lot of people passing by, and he could be infected right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. I understand this is about Mr. Shopov. Mr. Shopov, please mask or leave the room either. Please follow the rules. You're a lawyer, you know the laws very well, but you have a civil conscience. So please put on a mask. If you don't have a mask, please ask one of the Quaestors to provide Mr. Shopov with a mask. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, given the importance of the Power System Operator for the state power supply and guaranteeing reliable power supply, would you inform us in more detail in which areas there was a power outage in the ESO system? How long has the power supply been cut off, and have there been enough teams on the ground to remove these interruptions? Given the forecast and, in particular, the possibility of falling temperatures, are we prepared to react at such lower temperatures not to cut power again? This applies both to ECO systems and to electricity distribution systems, because it is also important to have prevention of such anomalies that are set in view of low temperatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Now I'll ask Mr. Antonov to put on the mask. Mr. Shopov! Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, as you rightly pointed out, the electric system operator really has a very important role in the electricity system of the country, so everything related to its secure and unattended work is really important for the security of electricity supply as well. What I can give as specific information about the question you have asked is the following data. For the period 10 to 13 January, accidents were detected on the following electricity lines. As I have already mentioned in the summary information, there are a total of six who have been rescued, four of them have already been recovered, but now I will give detailed information according to the developments of the events of days and how long the accidents have been resolved. Power line at 110 kilovolts. The power line was switched off on January 10th, at 17.32 pm to remove the accident and restore the normal operation of the power line was working a group of MER Pleven and two working groups from MER Sofia district. The power line was plugged into the system on January 11th at 11.02 pm. The power line of 110 kilovolts was switched off on January 10, 2021 at 17.57 pm to remove the accident and restore the normal operation of the power line works a working group from the MES Sofia district. The power line was switched on January 11th at 14.52 pm. The power line of 110 kilovolts "Rebrovo" turned off on 10 January, at 19.36 pm to remove the accident and respectively restore the normal operation of the electricity line works a working group from the MES Sofia district. The power line was switched on January 11th at 11:22 p.m. Power supply at 400 kilovolts. The power line was switched off on January 10th at 19.38 pm. Subsequently, two working groups from the MES Sofia district work to remove the accident and restore its normal operation. And as of now, the work on the recovery of the accident continues. Power supply at 110 kilovolts. The power line was switched off on January 11th, at 04.47 pm. A working group from M.M. Montana, one from M.R. Pleven and one from M.R. Vratsa is working to remove the accident. The normal operation of the power line has not been restored. Colleagues work in the field. We hope that within the day everything will be removed. Here I want to open a clamp and say that in terms of these power lines, on which the work continues and at present, a backup power supply has been included, so there are no customers who are without power at this time, but given the nature of the crashes, broken poles, icy power lines, requires more time. They are located in places that are difficult to access. So for this reason, work is still going on, but today, by the end of the day, they will be removed. And the power line of 400 kilovolts "Petrohan" was switched off on 13 January at 09.47 pm. A working group of MES Sofia district was working and the operation of the electricity line was restored. A few minutes ago, my colleagues informed me that the repairs had been completed and the power line was plugged into the system. This is about places where there was a problem with power lines owned by the Power System Operator. The system is stable and everything is being done according to the rules and procedures described in such situations, so there are no risks and any dangers at present. With regard to electricity production and information that temperatures are coming down in the next few days, I would like to assure you that all power plants are in the right condition. We are ready to face this peak of electricity consumption that is expected. At present, just over 35% of electricity is provided by Kozloduy NPP; 28% of thermal power plants; 14% provide hydropower, so the country's electricity system is stable and we are ready to endure this higher consumption, which is expected in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u115	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the BSP parliamentary group? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I never got an answer to the first question: how much water ran out in the field instead of producing electricity from them? Nevertheless, I will try to ask you the second question, which is somewhat related to this question. You know that dams, including in submission to the dams and stunts, are also used as a buffer for the non-forming of high waves in high heavy rainfall and as rechargeable energy that can be produced to cover both peak values and to balance the system when necessary. In this respect, it is surprising that there is no policy in relation to new hydropower facilities, with the exception of the Yadenitsa Dam, in the Strategy you have offered us, for sustainable energy development. I am interested in avoiding in the future such water leakage in the field instead of generating electricity: is the Ministry of Energy any view of exploring the possibilities for building new hydropower facilities? What's going on with the stunt? What are your plans in this area at all, because when we talk about renewables, decarbonization of the economy, what have you written in this same strategy that the potential is from solar, geothermal energy and biomass, there is no hydropower potential? Is this an abdication from him and only a limitation to the "Yaddenitsa" and to the "Gossa Arda" which is missing at all in the Strategy, or do you still intend to take measures so that the hydropower potential of the state can be used both for the benefit of consumers and for the security of the system? Otherwise, we'll keep talking to you about how there's no water in the dams and...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u118	...can't perform the appropriate actions and how sometimes the dams overflow without being...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u119	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u120	...used hydroenergy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u121	Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, as I mentioned in the previous reply, respectively all power plants, all hydropower plants owned by the National Electricity Company, these days, and all the rest of the time work in such a regime to ensure the recovery of water resources in order to produce electricity. So NEK's power outputs worked at full capacity and the large volume of water was absorbed and used to produce electricity. As I have already mentioned in the context of your previous question, the dams are such a type of facility that they have corresponding overflows. These overflows are not accidentally built simply because when there is such a high wave, there has to be a controlled release so there is no other type of problem. What the colleagues of NEK have done is within their powers and competences, according to the rules and instructions of the Ministry of Environment and Water, respectively, have mastered the water resources in a way that is necessary. As far as this is concerned, are the construction of new dams planned, as you mentioned, in the Project of Energy Strategy that we have provided in the National Assembly, and in the Integrated Plan of..................................... and the construction of a new type of hydropower supply and dams is not at stake? Here I would like to open a clamp with regard to renewable energy sources and say that water is not tolerated as this type of resource, as it is an exhausted resource and its priority and purpose is primarily to meet drinking water needs. This is also the concept and policy of the European Union. So everything that we have set as new capacities in the Energy Strategy Project, such as the development of the electricity sector in Bulgaria, is very clearly reflected in the Energy Strategy Project and in the Integrated Plan...................................................................................... It is fully in line with the European priorities and principles for the development of the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u123	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. From the United Patriarchs? I won't. From WALK? I can't see. From the Independents? I can't see. Second question to Minister Dimitrov "GERB parliamentary group."
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Dimitrov, in the last week we have witnessed the large amount of rain falling on the territory of our country. In some areas, a partially dire or dire situation has been declared. In this regard, Minister Dimitrov, I ask you the question: are there still areas in Bulgaria where in 2021 we will have problems with providing the amount of water from the dams and given the amount now achieved at the dams how long it will reach? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Zidarova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zidarova, if you are referring to the drinking water supply, we have 12 dams, from which we give for drinking domestic, and four of which are reserve: One of them will even fail because he does not perform these functions at all. The waterworks have surface water sources from which they supply, which are beyond our range. My concern is that as the water horizons are lowered, more and more of these 52 dams will be subject, for example, to a double and triple purpose, to give for energy, to give for irrigation, to also give for drinking domestic water supply, because these are the large surface water sources. This trend was applied once in the 1970s and 1980s. It is a dam that is agricultural, it is agricultural, it is a dam, it is a dam, and it was a dual-purpose dam, it has now become for drinking and hunting purposes. I wouldn't be surprised if there were any other dams in time. That's why my call was when you're going to put fishing nets, when you're going to do for all other purposes, which will then make it difficult to use the dams for their direct purpose, because you can't put fish in a dam of energy and then say, "Don't let it go," because the oxygen's getting in the way, so this dam is for energy. You can't say, "Let me feed the fish here, and if you need the water, you clean it." We have a problem there too. You can't say for a farmer's dam, we won't give summer water to farmers, because the fish are throwing caviar. Then what is this dam made for? There are 6,000 other dams there to do these exercises, or those of the irrigation that are, but with all the risk, when the water falls, to know that this thing is going to happen. With regard to whether or not there will be water this year, all the dams that are potable are fine. They're all fine. Even for the beginning of the winter season, when it's snowing, they're very good. Surprisingly, three years of drought before that. This is the result of restrictions imposed as a result of improving the system. But the huge losses are in the water from the dam leaving, a very small part reaches the end user. He's entering the city, but there are huge losses on the settlement system, so our efforts should be directed there. We've got water, but we're spreading it. We've got water to protect. The biggest problem was for us Dam Kamchia. He's been a big weight to us since January. With the fall rains in the last month of 45, it became 78 million. Last year, with the restrictions imposed Varna and Burgas... Let me say: the entire Black Sea coast, I am shutting down the dam of Yasna Polyana and of the Devnya springs, but the entire Black Sea coast used 80 million water. We now have 78. This year's water is secure. Grandpa God have mercy. It's raining. But I want the other dams to be the same, so people don't have to worry. All 12 of us wouldn't have a problem this year giving water to anyone, not less than last year's consumption. Some dams have two, some for three years of water, so we're fine with the drinking dams. Energy's good, too. We are starting to use it for quite other purposes to take for irrigation from them, to take for drinking needs, and in some way to make their main activity difficult. The problem which the Prime Minister has assigned to me, in this direction, if we look at the issue, is for three dams:............................................................................................. These are the three dams that we need to fill in order for farmers in Plovdiv to get 100% water for them. We are carrying out channel cleaning events and redirecting water from the "Bellmeken" so that we can also resolve this issue in the summer, which, however, makes energy difficult for us to know. We create a certain subordination that is not good for them, that is, energy will once again help farmers. The other big problem is with the hawkino dam, which was agricultural, was built as an agricultural, huge system after it. I had a chance to say it before. All this must be stopped and said to farmers: this year you will have no water. That means digging drills, and there's no way they're gonna get that much water out. So all our efforts are how to reassign the resource to have, because Antonovo uses 20,000. Cubic monthly. And holding a huge dam for $20,000. Cubic, not used by farmers, so many millions of water is wrong. There's gotta be a drink-boiler. We're gonna do everything we can and we're not gonna hurt anybody. There must be some for farmers. At this point, we are trying to provide them with about 5 million for farmers, in no way affecting the interest of the city of Antonovo, the residents there, even more by law they are of priority. We're trying in every direction. The problem is that the agricultural dams are traditionally empty at this time, not managed well, have no money to support them both the dams and the channels after them. They don't have any money, and that's been going on for years. I hope that some solution will be found with European funding. With regard to the energy and drinking problems, we don't have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the BSP parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! This is the current situation with the waters in Bulgaria because strategically the management of the waters in the last 10 years is upside down, to put it mildly. In 2013 I was welcomed at the Directorate General for Environment in Brussels with the words: Mr. Kostadinov, Bulgaria is a model of all European countries for the worst prepared plans for river basin management and flood river management plans. But then I didn't know that we had two powerful weapons. As you just heard from the Minister, Grandpa God has mercy, it's raining. Praise the sustainable management of the water sector, its real and predictable governance! The childish notion, ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Minister, that, you see, in recent years, rain is suddenly pouring unexpectedly into one place, to be decided by reporting, introducing and implementing the National Programme for Prevention of the necessary measures in the context of drought and adaptation to the climate, which probably has not been heard from in the Ministry of Environment and Water. And the childish idea that, you see, in two dams ten kilometers apart, one has water and the other does not, is decided by the Water Management Framework Directive and the strategic management of water in pools in general. Because, Mr. Minister, I am impressed that you are presenting us with a journalistic story, distanced, how environmental legislation is violated across the country by municipalities, mayors, citizens and farmers, I am asking you the specific questions: how do you implement and implement the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development adopted in 2012 by the GERB government, in its part about the new water industry Prevention against the harmful effects of the water; who are the operators in this new water industry; what budget is set aside for prevention from the harmful effects of water and how the flood management plans have been implemented so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Mr. Bojankov, Mr. Pawnov, please put on masks! [[Heckling]] Please put on masks, Mr. Pawnov, Mr. Bojankov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can insult you the way you insult me, but I won't. I'm just tempted, but I'm not gonna do it. As I've heard, you've done everything, it's not left for us after 2000. As they say, it's all there. What does the Framework Directive mean to explain it to Grandpa God?! But you see that there is no water in the dam. There is no water in the dam. It's nature. In four hours, the water went out in four months. In which Framework Directive was this thing described? Mayors always clean up. Half the mayors are yours. Come on, make a commitment at least the mayors of BSP to clear their riverbeds. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I am also outraged that management plans are not being implemented. I even had a conversation with a representative of an international institution. I won't say a name because the stands are too high. I said, "Okay, we'll give you $30 million for eight classors, but at least do it so we can apply it." That's the truth I've made. I took the liberty of a representative of an international institution, very high, to say: we have put aside money, we have taken you as an artist, we want to work together. Don't make us write it all down, give it to you, translate it and give it back to us. I don't want to give $30 million for eight classmates, but we're forced to do it. At least get this thing done so we can have these programs, these plans. You want me to do everything in one year that's been started since 2002. I suppose you overestimate me. But it's important to me, too, to have these plans. I set an example for a reason with Burgas. They have an early warning system, this system worked. People were able to do a partial evacuation in time, or warn the population that there was a high wave coming, but that's gone all over the country. He's been gone since yesterday. I didn't destroy it. It existed, but I removed it or canceled it. On the contrary, I have appeared at all the meetings I need to attend. I've prayed to all the international institutions. I have even used acquaintances who have contacts with the representatives of these institutions, to say: come rather to Bulgaria, let us understand which part we will do and which part you will do. If you have to, let us and your unit finish up a little bit, but at last these plans will come into force. They're gone. [[Noise and lines.]] The money is provided, even during the reign of Mrs. Vasileva. There are, there are, as soon as the plan is drawn up. But these are international institutions, some of them I can't influence. But I've invited them to the Ministry, I've had 3 calls, we've exchanged information, and so far we've reached the middle of what we're going to do and we're going to give them what they need to do and return us as a final report. Don't think people in the Ministry don't worry. And Iskar's worried about these two plans, the river basins and the floods, but it's a procedure that's been going on for years. Tell me you, as there are two or three companies here you are probably not strangers who if you do not win a given order, immediately start to appeal. Next time he wins, the others appeal against him. I am forced to stand as a minister who, in two of his structures, is suing the other, and if one condemns and takes one side, it turns out that you are taking the side of one or the other. And we always pay them, the Ministry and the fines and the penalties. This year we have a coronavirus. We don't have any money. We had a 40 million state budget, fell to twenty, this year is zero. We don't. You're going to ask me in a month: how does the Agency work, which money, which funds? Because I have to have a budget to give them to take over the current monitoring, air, cleanliness and so on. We set up a center, set up cameras. This whole thing is worth money, and we don't have any. It's just that the whole country is bad this year, and we're all imposing restrictions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I didn't come here to ask for money, I didn't come here to complain. I'm telling you what the current situation is. In terms of air purity. We've taken action, you'll see them soon enough. In terms of river basins and floods. I've done all the meetings, I've changed management, they're constantly on the monitors, because they're in different parts of the world, they're having conversations and appropriate protocols. I aim as quickly as possible and to execute within the deadline, despite the two-year delay, all these plans. I even said, "Money is secure." Come, work if you have to in the ministry. I understand that these two things are gone, but you should become a shadow minister tomorrow if four months later they ask you what happens to the management plans, they will hardly have entered into force. Because it's not up to you, but it's up to the international institutions, the lawsuits, the ruling, the timing, the appeal. It's all outside of you, despite your great desire. It's the same with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I'll allow myself to say that you hardly answered my first question, but essentially to what I would like to ask you right now. As I just said, in December 2016, plans were adopted to manage the flood risk of the four basin water management areas in Bulgaria, which were developed in accordance with the requirements of the Water Act and the Flood Directive. The plans shall cover the period 2016 - 2021 and shall be accompanied by national programmes for their implementation. Those plans shall contain the maps of the threat and risks of flooding, the objectives and the prevention of those risks, as well as the Programme of Measures to reduce them. Under the Water Act, the Water Coordination Council discusses annually the implementation of national programmes of flood risk management plans in different sectors and sets out the necessary measures proposed by the Minister of Environment and Water for adoption by the Council of Ministers. In this regard, my question is: how is the implementation of flood risk management plans going in these years; what measures have been implemented; what measures are envisaged for the previous three years, naturally, and 2020? In this regard, I would like to say that everything is in the context of the fact that water management in our country is in principle responsible activity, but it is also more specific and difficult, given that only a year ago we had a problem with the lack of water, I give an example with Pernik, that in other places, and we see that we are also facing situations like the current one with floods, with all the consequences of this with landslides, with bridges being carried away, flooding of settlements and so on. We expect to hear exactly what implementation is, because this needs to be implemented annually, in the context of maximum prevention. As I said earlier, we cannot face nature, but to take maximum measures to avoid the consequences of such distress situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u133	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I will be very brief. For last year are public read them, for this year we wait for February month to come to bring them March to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I don't see a question, I don't see one. Second question to Minister Borisov of the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Borisov, the policy and concept of water management by the state has an important topic and she made her conceptual change in 2019. It was by the present National Assembly that a change in the Water Act was undertaken to clarify, refine and facilitate the procedure for transferring municipal dams to the state. It is in this regard and in the context of today's hearing that my question to you is: how many dams were transferred from the municipalities of the state in the past 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I partially answered this question in one of my previous answers, but now I will be even more specific. Out of 2812 the number requested for transfer from municipalities initially there are 1538 dams on which there has been a refusal by the district governors due to incomplete documentation and information provided. As of 13 January 2021, the State-owned enterprise of the State-owned enterprises of the Dams is managing or operating an organisation and technical operation of 415 dams, of which 38 are of unclear ownership. The three hundred seventy-seven dams for which the transfer procedure has been completed and are accepted as a complex management by the State enterprise are allocated as follows: Blagoevgrad In one of the previous answers, I also explained some of the reasons why this is happening slower, which actually turns out to be a problem in repairing, because ultimately the emergency repairs that are being made and the dams are not transferred to the state, the municipalities will have to pay the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Prodanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u140	Dear Minister, in response to my previous question, you confirmed two of my basics when asked. And they were precisely: firstly, that four years ago you were designing, researching, and there was almost no one built a dam, when you noticed that four years ago, when this measure was taken and these 500 million were granted, these dams were declared urgent, dangerous and had to be repaired immediately. In four years you design and they flood people's property, courtyards and ruin their lives and destinies. So that was the first conclusion. The second conclusion that you confirmed in your reply is that "Montage" is used only to drain these funds. In order to avoid the Public Procurement Act, by translating the money to Like I said, Mata Hari's gonna steal that money, too. However, I know that you as managers do not have a program and plan in many sectors. But, Minister, especially to this sector, which you are managing for the management of dams and walls, if you have at least any close perspective within a year or two, I want to ask you two specific questions again and I want clear and precise answers. Have you made calculations of the 550 million that have already been allocated, will it be enough to repair and complete the work on these dams and dams? My second question is, how long do you plan on doing this? Because at first, I said they were defined as urgent. Urgent, urgent, how urgent?! Four years, and we haven't done anything yet. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u142	Last one, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, so far from what has been undertaken as repairs, how many companies has Montagey assigned a different type of work? If you have that information, give it to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u143	Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Prodanov, for the second time I have to oppose the misleading information that you put into the question because, first of all, it is not 550 million, but 500 million. Secondly, at first, we confused a state enterprise...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u145	And the additional decree of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u146	For which ministry and for what function? [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u147	Minister, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u148	There's only one translation to the State Consolidated Company. The second thing, you're talking about four years. No four years! We're talking about now I can't make an accurate account, and maybe... [[Reply from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov.]] For a year and a half. That's right. There was no capacity from there. I'm explaining to you right now about the Montecitos. For implementation, because it was said that there were no workers, as well as 200 workers, 70 years of history, involved in the construction of absolutely all sites in the territory of the country and abroad. In recent years, the company has participated in the expansion of the Sofia Metro "Druzba" and thousands of other sites such as "Lufthansa Technician", member of the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, all kinds of certificates What I am informed about is the last part of your question, as the sites are in the territory of the whole country, the equipment is used and rented in places, as the transport costs for the transport of large and heavy excavators are better hired from the specific location, from the specific municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms? The United Patriarchs? PLEASE? Attitudes the parliamentary group of GERB, on issues? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there one from GERB's parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u150	I have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u152	Dear Mr President, since it is accepted when we have such a hearing, we usually have a minister who is in the Chamber and gives an explanation. Then it is customary to have five minutes of attitude from each of the parliamentary groups. But since in today's situation we have four ministers who are listening to the issue is really quite serious, I do not propose four ministers at five minutes, but let's make some compromise and have two by five and the time for attitude to be ten minutes each of the parliamentary groups to be able to take a normal attitude on what we have heard today because the whole parliamentary day has actually passed in a hearing of the ministers. It is only right that we have a little more time so that everyone can speak well enough about today's parliamentary day and hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u153	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. For me, it is not the number of ministers, but the subject. And the subject is one thing, even though we have listened to four ministers. Procedure, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u154	Mr. President, I would also like to remind you and to ask BSP colleagues who are present at the Chairman's Council to inform their parliamentary group properly Mr. Vigenin was at the Chairman's Council that Mrs. Karayancheva said that it would be possible for everyone to take an attitude within as long as he needs to, of course, should not be abused in relation to the fact that we really have a hearing of four ministers. So I ask you to stick to this commitment during the Conference of Presidents and not to strictly comply with the Rules of Procedure in this case, because the procedure is indeed slightly different from the usual ones. I'm really sorry that Mr. Vigenin didn't inform you in due course. I think he created a problem that arose here in the room. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Looks like there's been a break in the information link somewhere. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me start by thanking the ministers heard today who have provided summary and detailed information on the disasters that have occurred on the territory of the country and, above all, for all measures that have been taken to address the consequences of these disasters. Within the framework of this mandate, honourable MPs, we have implemented a large part of the priorities set out in the UN Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction by Sendai, adopted at the end of 2015. The start was given with some extremely serious changes in the Law on Disaster Protection from the end of the last term in the management of the Council of Ministers. These changes in the Law on Protection of Disasters have refined the powers of all competent authorities in the part of the disaster protection. In particular, the focus was placed on preventive activities and planning, because until the adoption of these changes, many of the competent authorities did not recognise their commitments which were entrusted to them by law. At the beginning of this management in 2017 the preparation started and in 2018 the new National Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction 2018 " 2030" was adopted. This strategy is currently being assessed by the World Bank and at present the preliminary assessments Bulgaria received for this new strategy are positive. We at GERB believe that this legal and strategic framework showed its results when certain disasters occur. In this case, we have witnessed floods. We see that the competent authorities are increasingly interacting with each other with a single goal to preserve the life and health of Bulgarian citizens on the one hand. On the other hand, to overcome the consequences of these disasters as far as possible within a reasonable period of time. Over the past few years, the budget of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance has been increased by more than 20% and, accordingly, much more quickly municipalities, after giving their applications, have received the necessary funds for carrying out construction works. We have certainly missed something else useful to do, but we also believe that the direction is right with the adoption of the other legislation by the competent authorities involved in this state policy, and we will continue to work in this direction. First of all, to avoid risking the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, to reduce the risk of these disasters and, of course, where there is a need, in due time, where there is a need, the competent authorities in the face of municipalities, which are the main applicants in cases where there are disasters and they submit a request to the Interdepartmental Commission, for these funds to be provided. I think that this direction is right and the results are visible because despite serious disasters and despite serious climate changes.. this must be taken into account initially, we need to be aware that it is becoming increasingly difficult to have a quick and adequate response, insofar as these Bulgarian citizens who are in need get everything they need. But here is the time to remind that from the previous term there is still hard work in this area, and in the past mandates before that we all remember that we have witnessed serious disasters such as King Kaloyan and Asparuhovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u157	And Bisser.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u158	And these serious disasters were with extremely many casualties.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u159	Both Miziya and Bisser.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u160	In Bisser and in Miziya were during our government. In fact in Miziya was not during our government, but during the service government, really lives were lost there, really suffered and significant damage was done to many Bulgarian citizens. But here today we are clearly showing that we are working hard, working in the right direction, and I am convinced that the next Parliament and the next government must continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. BSP's parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for staying at least at the end to hear the attitude of those to whom you have come to give information. In fact, every Bulgarian citizen who has endured this long and long hearing has realized that it is a complete demonstration of absolute government helplessness on the subject of water. For more than two and a half hours there is a calm and equal tone of talk about things that seem to be normal! It's like it's normal for a country in just a few weeks and months to go from threat of drought to flood, from real drought to flood! From waterlessness to tsunami! It's like it's perfectly normal for people in half of the year to wonder if they're gonna have water coming out of their taps and in the other half of the year wondering if they're gonna flood their living rooms and basements! And here you sit and put the question at first like the weather! But there was rain, you see! There's a lot of rain!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u163	Right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u164	Really?! Oh, yeah?! Mr. Simeonov just tried to humiliate another MP explained that three years ago it was the same. So for you, it's global warming, and then it's raining, and then it's grandpa God! [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Who is not to blame for your absolute incompetence? [[Comments from GERB and OP.]] And now more specifically, because on top of everything, without embarrassing yourself, you're yelling. So the Ministry of Interior comes and tells me about the reaction after the crisis and we thank the police and firemen who do their job. Except you, besides thanking them, should also apologize to these boys and girls, to these men and women, because you put them in the same position every few years. [[Replications from OP.]] Because instead of thanking us for how they did so that there were no lost lives, the minister had to explain what was done so as not to come to this environment. And when my colleagues properly ask him what the Interdepartmental Commission is doing, which has to take care of preventive activities and where tens of millions of levs have gone, he continues to speak his own. The energy management of the dams from NEK was good, emergency measures and subsequent measures are very good, the energy system is stable. I put aside the question of how they sound to those dozens of settlements that are out of power, this stability of the energy system, how they imagine it. And at all that shoulder-lifting, uh, we got away with it! Uh, we got away with it this time, until the next one! [[Relations of the National Representative Petar Petrov.]] When my colleagues correctly ask her how it is obtained that these key to national security and the energy system dams are full, so they are empty, so there is no water, so there is too much water, she responds, but he, Minister Dimitrov, on this topic well explained. [[Noise and lines.]] This is one of the huge problems that you all know, namely that on the subject of water ministries and various authorities pass on to each other their responsibilities constantly, so whether water is poisoned in Haskovo, whether it is drought, whether it is waterlessness or flood, here come four-five ministers and start talking to each other how the other had said better. Well, he didn't say anything good! But it's not so scary, the bad news is he didn't do anything! And Minister Dimitrov, because we mentioned how nice he was, you see, explained about the dams, so, Minister Ivanov... [[Radio, O.P. lines.]] Minister Dimitrov here explained. First of all, I'm putting aside his, his specific ones for the syphons. That was, you see, like, if people put a lot of water in the sink and it would overflow. But unfortunately, he left to explain the difference. If someone enters their own bathroom and drops all the taps at once and the siphon does not take over and flood, they are responsible for their own stupidity. And who's responsible for the stupidity that makes this guy sleep peacefully in his house and water from his dam washes it away? Whose fault is that? Who turned these fountains? [[Replications from OP.]] Who's taking care of these siphons? These are the questions that need to be asked. But worse! Minister Dimitrov made here, before us, a recognition that in itself requires investigations and the highest degree of political responsibility! This confession sounded like this. The dams were full, but no one wants to admit it. That is, he tells us that the responsible authorities knew that the dams were full at a time when a level should be maintained to provide a certain buffer. But no one wants to admit it because, you see, they're worried. Well, it's a direct putting people's health and life at risk! And to ask Minister Dimitrov why, according to him, no one wants to admit it: is it because he himself came here a few weeks ago and accused one another of leaving the citizens without water? Is it because some of these people were constantly loading up here on this stage, he came and accused them one by one, the different officers? It started with Burgas, went through Varna, I don't know where! Is this an environment where no one knows what they're responsible for, where no one knows who they're responsible for and where everyone is afraid that at some point the prosecution will knock on his door? Because of this silence, thank God, there are no casualties, but there could be. The Minister of Economy has remained here and this honors him, but he also talks mainly about the direct actions caused by the current crisis and remains unanswered the dozens of questions related to the way funds are being used in an identified problem for a long time, about the way the state enterprise operates. A brief reference shows that it was last to meet in September 2020 when it granted certain funds for these activities. In its previous meeting, the Governing Council dealt with the selection of stationery. [[Heckling]] That's obvious from his page. Is this enterprise active enough, is this resource that was provided used efficiently enough? The answer is no! Why did the debate have to be today, and what do we have to do to change it? We've been in dire straits. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, well she is in a permanent state of disaster in recent years! If it's not a drought, it's a flood! If the garbage doesn't burn to poison the air, it'll flood the cities! And that too, you see, was normal!? The river passed, and the people of Svoge woke up in the middle of a dump! [[Noise and lines in GERB and OP.]] If the roads are broken before the repairs, they get even more crushed after the repairs. We're in dire straits all the time! Actually, it's not a disaster! It's a disaster! This is the threat to Bulgarian citizens! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And this lift... You have made it so that at the beginning of 2021 a very different meaning has acquired the normal greeting: to be alive and well! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, we're okay, Isn't that the basic base?! [[Replications from OP.]] What insolence did we really hear here in those moments?! By the way, the junk that flooded Svoge and the Iskar Gorge and everyone saw yesterday on the News is a very good metaphor for the political state we are in. They lie invisible in the troughs of the river, and when the water rises, they come out and flood everything. The same thing happens in politics. All these dung are laid in the riverbed, and sooner or later the water will rise and they will come to the surface. And the sooner the better, because then we can start cleaning up. What can I say? Yesterday this was one of the main ones of the declaration read on behalf of a parliamentary group from Cornelia Ninova, who said that this parliament, which can deal with and should deal only with the problem of water for the coming months, because this problem does not tolerate delay and waiting for elections and what needs to be done. We told you yesterday, we told you and the other day, we'll tell you a few things tomorrow. First, the waters should declare themselves a national wealth, an element of national security, and this should have as a consequence clearly borne responsibility by one person, by a deputy prime minister or a minister or whoever you say you say, but one person should already be responsible and coordinate this activity and not be able to reach the chairs for all those who explain what is being done with the waters, and ultimately no one should do anything. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u165	Guide to completion, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u166	Step two, Madam President. We've got four or five and we're done. Irrigation systems related to dams are built, concessions of dams are reserved and outstanding concession holders are sanctioned. A quick and direct responsibility is sought for those who are responsible for what happened in recent days. The necessary means and organisation shall be provided for the cleaning of river troughs and of street shafts. This seems simple to me. And that it hasn't been done so far, there's no excuse. Today you once again on a key topic proved that you are incapable. There's no more time to waste. We want Bulgarian citizens to know one thing: it is not the rain that is guilty and it is not the situation that is disastrous. Disaster situations are inevitable if management is in the hands of incompetent people. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB and OP.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. An attitude from the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u168	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! And after the answers that were not essentially, especially from the Minister of Environment and Water, I would like to say that the Ministry of Environment and Water does not fulfil its commitments to prevent flooding in the current situation. Correctness is supposed to say that after the events of the Ministry of Interior, Energy and the Economy have taken action with a view to overcoming and helping our fellow citizens, but also being in such a situation, there will be no such reactions. However, it is good and it must be taken into account correctly that such action is taking place. And with regard to prevention, why do I say that there is no governance and no prevention? Because it can also be seen from the Ministry's website what is exposed and no one underestimates here the MPs, in particular us who take attitude, what is on the Ministry's websites, what is not.................................................................................... From what we see with regard to the implementation of the programs is that they are not implemented, as Mr. Zarkov said just now. They are not implemented either for land or for floods, because there are settlements in the 21st century that are in a water regime, or settlements, as we see now, flooded. But especially for the first, for water regimes and for waterlessness, the necessary adequate measures, actions and steps can and should be taken so that in the 21st century there is no water regime anywhere in our country. That's absolutely achievable. I would point out as Minister of Environment and Water, if there is a mayor to stand up and say that when he wanted support for water projects, for water supply, to say which project was not approved and was not supported so as to improve the quality and standard of all who live in Bulgaria. The dams, except for a function to be like potables intended for energy, irrigation and so on, have another function and it needs to be expressed today in the context of the current situation. Then, when there are predictions of higher tidal waves, it is appropriate to have orders to release volumes from the respective dams to meet the tidal wave so as to minimize the consequences for the part in the conductivity of rivers, ravines and so on after the dams. At the moment, we hear only and only that they are included to release volumes and to include overflows. There is absolutely no prevention here. This is a natural consequence as a late reaction, stressing the situation that has arisen. At the same time, I would like to be correct and point out that, as a former Minister for the Environment and Water, I will not be modest to say that the teams of the Directorate for Water and Water have done their job and, whenever there have been such situations, to all entities who are responsible and have changed obligations according to our legislation, recommendations have been sent by the Ministry of Environment and Water. Because if we say that for everything to the maximum extent there can be maximum prevention, it is not realistic, but with the actions all of this can be minimized. I am of the opinion that in a more diagnostic environment and with all that we can do as MPs, and especially the executive, they really need to take preventive measures, because when 2005 started the mandate of Mr. Stanishev's government, we had serious floods, we subscribe to the European Metrological Forecast Agency, and far before such events occur, as now, meteorologists have indicated that a large tidal wave of rain is coming, there is a dire situation coming, forecasts are worrying, we need to take such measures and actions further away, so that there is maximum adequacy with regard to the actions that need to be taken, I am already repeating, from all subjects that need to be taken. I thank for the attention and indeed every ministry, every single entity must carry out their duties and present them here from the highest tribune in our country, from the tribune of the National Assembly, what has been done and how it has been done. We hope that this will be the case from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. For attitude on behalf of the United Patriarchs? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u170	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our attitude is exceptional and with gratitude we accept the explanations of people who do their job to people who explain in human words people who are inside matter. Thank God we have ministers who know what they're doing and can explain it. That's the difference between the crises we've had so far. Unfortunately, there were ministers who spoke such a literary language, administratively, to wonder if they were responding to you, or if they were simply reading something memorized, or if they learned something memorized. There will be, as there have been, natural disasters there will be. And I would like to say categorically that it does not matter who rules the country when there is a natural disaster. The natural disaster does not comply with the political konncture, with the government. So any attempt to blame the actions that are the result of which are actions to overcome obstacles is a stupid elementary surface of political campaigning and action. It's nothing else! So I appeal to the Members of the National Assembly from the other parliamentary groups to respect the efforts of people who very often have to work 16 hours or more a day to overcome the unpleasant problems and consequences of these natural disasters. In this case we have adequate action, we have the commitment of the entire administrative, state, technical and professional apparatus and this is seen daily from the breathed negative reports of all television stations, but on the other hand, I must emphasise that the natural disaster is a natural disaster. No one can predict what kind of composition it will be, no one knows what will happen tomorrow. It is natural that there are certain cyclical climate changes that change the climate of the state, but this must be explained, not everything to be in an acquittal regime, everything in mode that we are not guilty of, that we cannot do any more. Someone should finally tell people that when the sewerage, rainy systems of cities were planned, they were simply planned for less water Then there was no such precipitation. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's nothing funny about it. You can laugh all you want. These are engineering activities that you are clearly not familiar with. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's right, and that's why they can't absorb this increased volume of rainwater. When the stunts are planned for example, the dams are also planned for an average annual water flow. It is only natural that this system is now loaded. The good thing, as we can see, is that as a result of the urgent actions that were taken with the amendment of the Water Act in 2018, we do not currently have broken dams, the most critical dams over 400, have already been renovated. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is not an activity that can be completed with one hand removal, and the results are there, thank God. We don't have King Kaloyan, honourable colleagues from BSP and DPS. We don't, do we? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and from DPS.]] Thank God, let's hope we don't, because it's all about rain. And we also have to explain to all the uninformed representatives of our society that when there are excessive rainfall, no dam and no dam stunt can prevent the water from leaking on the riverbeds. The dams take up to a certain point, then when they start overflowing, they must start leaking. Otherwise, the water destroys the wall and that happens in hours. That's what you have to say. Nobody says that. From morning to night, there are these apocalyptic reports: we drown and whatnot. And the old people say yes, that's right, I will now use the words: "We are guilty of what we are guilty of?" Well, we are not guilty, only what to do, given that the house is built in such a place where there is a natural water supply in a large precipitation and what to do when the respected citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria has not paid 100 BGN to insure his house for a whole year? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With this amount, all damages will be covered by an insurance company, not by the State, not by general taxes. Because any citizen who is not suffering can call us to account: why are you covering the damage? So here we have to work towards increasing the overall insurance culture of the Bulgarian society, which is low, unfortunately. These are the truths to be said, to explain, not to turn the natural disaster into a cause for political and political attacks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. An attitude from the Volksh Group? I can't see. Colleagues, the hearing procedure for the Minister of Interior Mr. Hristo Terziyski, Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Emil Dimitrov and Minister of Economy Mr. Lachezar Borisov has been completed. I thank the ministers for today's participation. Half an hour off. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u172	Let's get back to work, guys. Please take your seats. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIRE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. You have the floor for the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act, No 002-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 16 December 2020, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the committee was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Silvia Vasileva, Director of the Department of Animal Economy and Marieta Neykova, Head of Department of the same Directorate. Representatives of branch organizations were also present. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Mrs. Vasileva, who noted that the changes aimed at removing the double registration of the bees, which are registered in the Municipalities Act and in the order of the Law on Veterinary Care in the Regional Food Safety Directorates. In this regard, the Bill is proposed to end the registration of bees and bee families by the mayors of the settlements. It is intended that bee families should be accommodated in bees registered under the Veterinary Activity Act, while the requirement for the presence of a fence and a plate with the registration number of the apiary remains. Where permanent bees are located in regulated land estates, the fence should ensure the safety of the site and prevent the free access of persons and animals, and where they are located in forest areas, the enclosure should not constitute construction within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. An exception to enclosure and signage requirements is made for bees located in protected areas within the meaning of the Law on Protected Areas. The texts relating to the data in the register of bee families of mobile beekeeping, which is held in the town halls, have been revised. A legal definition of the concept of a modern bee is given. The National Beekeeper Union categorically stated that they do not support the proposed changes, that they demand that the Bill be withdrawn and that an interdepartmental working group be formed to prepare a draft of an entirely new law. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, proposed that the National Assembly should not adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the European Economic Area, No 002-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The beekeeping law is one of the few laws that tolerate the slightest changes in each National Assembly because of the fact that there are so many accumulated problems and the likelihood of them being unraveled through change is now minimal. It has therefore been said for a long time that there must be a brand new Beekeeping Act that regulates public relations in a way that enables the industry to develop and be protected. What we are currently being offered is a change of the Law, with importers' ambition being through the proposed changes to reduce the administrative burden of registration of bee families, of bee farms. This thesis is extremely controversial because removing the keeping of a register from the town halls does not mean that the administrative burden is reduced. That the mayor will not know how many bee families there will be in the respective settlement, however, creates extremely many problems. What is proposed in the Law is the registration to be for all beekeepers under art. 137 of the Beekeeping Act. The requirements for those engaged in and registered farmers are severe with requirements for the apiary to be registered in regulated terrain, to have a veterinarian, to have relevant contracts and so on. And for personal holdings, the mayor is committed to gathering sufficient information and accordingly to be a conductor of the possibility for these bees to be registered in the Regional Food Safety Directorate. When taking such a step, absolutely all possibilities must be calculated to make mistakes regarding a serious problem in beekeeping, namely disclosure of information on sprays. The mayor has so far been engaged in this task and all beekeepers in the respective territory, which he had information about, have been notified. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry explained that there will be an electronic platform from which everyone registered in it will automatically receive information about when the sprays are and what measures should be taken. This electronic platform, which I tried to understand exactly how it would work, proved to be extremely unreliable, however, because of 13,000 beekeepers, bee families, and also farms, only 200 have so far been registered. That is, 200 of them will have information on what is coming, the other 12 800, which are not registered because the requirements are significant and, moreover, significant financial support is required in order to achieve this registration, will be completely unaware. That is, we do not resolve this issue in a way in which to create prerequisites to really minimize the mortality of bees due to irregular sprays. Secondly, a new order for registration of breeding associations is proposed. The current order has been written in the Law on livestock production, where there are requirements and they are related to certain documentation, with certain expertise for the people involved, with a specific programme to be approved. What is currently being proposed is for the Minister of Agriculture to approve breeding associations without having those requirements that other breeding associations must comply with. However, bear in mind that there is one huge financial resource for breeding associations that is paid by the State Fund for their activities. Reducing the requirements for what activity is taking place, therefore leads to claims that, after all, we can have many breeding associations, but none of them does not meet the conditions that should follow them. It's written that there will be temporary bees. There is a definition in the Additional Provisions, but there is no order to exercise control over them, which also creates problems, because anyone at any given time can say that there is a temporary apiary that is portable. [[Noise.]] In order not to bore you with the details of the Bill, which is extremely simple, I have to tell you that this bill would have achieved its objectives if it had turned to several fundamental questions that are waiting for its solution. First, representation of branch organizations. It is very interesting that this bill does not give any opinion of a branch organisation in a positive direction. There is only one thing that does not accept the amendments to the Law. In 2009, there were eight branch organizations. Now, according to information from the Ministry of Agriculture, there are 18. But here there are no criteria for who is nationally represented in this sector so that the industry as a whole can make adequate decisions. There's an advisory council on beekeeping, but he's still not listed in the Law. The other major problem is what happens annually in the country, and this is the death of bees as a result of poisoning. Two laws are being fought by the Law for the Protection of Plants and the Law for the Deployment. And when there is one buffer in which no one is responsible and the state does not sanction those who have caused the poisoning in bees, the result is the same. Most of all, I would like to appeal to the understanding that if this bill is adopted as it is, of 13,000 beekeepers in the country who are currently registered, believe me, there will remain no more than 1000 who will be those who have opportunities that have over 150 bee families. Others will neither be able to register nor participate nor be able to be protected under the conditions in which they work. That is why, in the Commission, we did not support the Bill. However, if this bill is adopted in this House, it is my request that it really address the issues which they tolerate and require extreme attention in order to minimize the errors that are at this stage as a result of the Act and also from the point of view of the control which is not effective and this leads to serious losses for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Statements? Both of you? Okay, here you go. Mr. Bogdanov after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are facing another revision of the Beekeeping Act. Following the replacement of the Law on Persons and Families in 2001, the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities created an attempt for permanent work and improvement on the problems in the activities of beekeepers in beekeeping organizations. With the Act on beekeeping adopted in 2003, a dream of generations of Bulgarian beekeepers has been realized, but it also creates an insurmountable obstacle in the organization of Bulgarian beekeeping because of the fact that, I will tell you the main disadvantage of the beekeeping and until now, no regulation has been developed and adopted or any other sub-legal act for the implementation of this law; and until now, the obligation has not been exercised under art. 5 of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests to carry out the overall management of the sector with the help of the National Beekeeper Union; and to this day no rights and obligations of beekeeping organisations have been exchanged since 2001 under the Law on Legal Persons, which correspond to the changing legal and economic situation in the sector. In this sense, the proposed amendments to the Bill amending the Beekeeping Act are another imitation of the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which can be argued by easing the administrative burden on beekeepers. But, on the other hand, no fundamental structural problems are solved in the industry. This is precisely the continuing delay of problem issues for the sector to be resolved, which I pointed out at the beginning, created and will continue to create uncertainty, a sense of organisational instability and even chaos between beekeepers, and, as a consequence, a loss of interest in practicing this important for agriculture and even more about the stability of the country and biodiversity sector of livestock farming with exceptional, significant, export potential. According to the latest report of the European Commission from October last year in 2019, the number of beekeepers in Bulgaria fell by almost a third, and according to the National Beekeeper Union estimates the decline is even greater. There are also many other consequences in economic, legal, moral aspects. This is what beekeepers and managers of different beekeeping associations and structures share. My proposal and the attitude of the Group of Progressive Socialists to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Beekeeping Act is to accept the proposals made in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Beekeeping Act because of their apparent benefit in terms of reducing administrative burden and avoiding ambiguous obligations on registration and sanctions. Second, to be included after rethinking changes regarding the text of art. 5 of the Beekeeping Act and related texts which do not restrict beekeeping organisations. Finally, set out in the Law amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act a deadline for establishing and validating a regulation implementing the Beekeeping Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u178	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. Mr. Pawnov, this is the second time you've broken the order of the court today. And other people are disturbing the order of the Chamber Mr. Petrov. Thank you. And now Mr. Pawnov will wear a mask. No, you're not gonna put it on, are you? Mr. Bogdanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a topic which may definitely be incomprehensible or peripheral to a large part of the Bulgarian society, but it is actually very important, given that there is a problem in both national and worldwide with bees' submorning and the development of beekeeping at all. And this actually reflects both the state of the environment and our planet, and at all the human activity in the last 150 years. What we have witnessed and what impressed us after the beekeepers' protest a few years ago is that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry took this important sector of Bulgarian agriculture more seriously, which, by the way, gives livelihood to many people. I suppose you know yourself in your regions people who are living only and only from this activity and it is very important, it creates a family business, it creates opportunities for parents, children and several other people who can be workers or assistants in this process to actively participate, to make a living and to provide some product which, by the way, is convertible, it is not only quoted on the Bulgarian market. You know that Bulgarian honey has long been very well perceived on a European scale. I can point out several examples of the active position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. You know that an Advisory Council on Beekeeping has been set up, and there by regions, respectively, any member of this Council may expose its position and may have a momentary and feedback-based relationship with the executive that implements the policies in the field of beekeeping. You know that, as of 1 January of this year, a single disclosure system has been introduced in relation to crop sprays, which creates good opportunities to reduce cases, unfortunately, in recent years, of bee poisoning, of poisoning entire bees and bees, which de facto destroys the livelihood of these people, and which I would personally compare to the killing of a domestic animal or poaching, or at all to such activities that I think bees are somehow underestimated as a victim of such human activities. It is no coincidence that, six months ago, I proposed and introduced changes to the National Assembly's Law of the Criminal Code that criminalise the uncontrolled sprays of crops and poisoning of bee families. Unfortunately, for so many months now, this bill has found no time to be submitted to the Commission and the plenary. And I plead from this high tribune to the leadership of the National Assembly to take account of this issue and to finally look at this so important bill. With the bill being offered to us at the moment by the Ministry of Agriculture, I believe that we are also continuing this positive direction of relation of the executive power to beekeeping, given that a clearer regulation is introduced with the creation of indicative signs and registration numbers of the bees concerned, with the possibilities for their protection through fences, by reducing the administrative burden of registration of bees, by dropping one instance to which they must also register with the definition of the concept of mobile beekeeping, which was not mentioned in the Law at this time. Many, especially of the larger, beekeepers carry out exactly this type of beekeeping, seasonally related to the relevant copper crops, and we had to give some direction to their activities as well. However, unfortunately, the Bill does not solve important fundamental issues of beekeeping. And here I can say that one of the major problems is unlimited or uncontrolled imports from third countries. In this case, some of the biggest importers in Bulgaria are Ukraine, China, recently Poland, which is undercutting the prices on the Bulgarian market and on the Bulgarian producers. On the other hand, I think it is no secret to anyone that there is a very serious monopoly in trade and in the processing of honey and bee products, which also creates an impossibility for a market principle and for the setting of a buying-in price that will be worthy and that will make sense of the work of beekeepers. I don't know if you are aware, but when you produce such a product and it wholesalely costs three or four levs, and you put in immense effort, labor, funds too, it is an absolutely reduced price that we all need to make so that we can give the beekeepers a breath of air and a chance to have better income and to be able to develop this activity. This determines the low price of honey. These two factors are very important and it has been quoted here for a reason that the people who are engaged in beekeeping are decreasing and bee families have decreased in recent years. It is precisely the inability to make revenue that gives you a chance to reinvest, to expand your production that is a serious factor. And go back to the unauthorized sprays. We must be much more demanding of the control bodies to the executive in terms of carrying out checks. Many signals have been given and information has been reached to me, I suppose, also to you, and when an on-the-spot check is carried out for unauthorised sprays or hiding the preparations, pesticides themselves, or hiding agricultural equipment, or openly misleading the relevant control bodies. And here is created a very unpleasant situation that despairs people of the ability to develop this sector at all and to carry out this production due to the lack of sufficient government control. In general, I can conclude that the changes to the Beekeeping Act, which have been proposed to us by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, are a good step in the right direction. But what is required of us, as people who protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens, specifically in the case of beekeepers, is to make a much bigger and more serious effort to have a much wider opportunity to develop this important sector, which gives the livelihood to many people. And God willing, to reach a stage in which the purchased prices will be as they are in Europe, and people will be able to develop their business. On behalf of the United patriots, I can actually say that we will support this proposal for a bill and hope that in the coming weeks, we will also consider the changes that we have submitted to the Penal Code on Unregulated Sprays and on poisoning bee families by the end of the mandate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u180	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Professor Bachvarova said that BSP will not support this bill. First, I would like to read to you in the last Agricultural Report on page 48 on beekeeping what is written as a policy: Long-term traditions, appropriate natural climate and environmental conditions in Bulgaria favour the development of beekeeping. Given the irreplaceable medicinal properties of honey and bee products, there is an increased interest and demand by consumers, and the good quality parameters of Bulgarian honey make it largely export-oriented. Beekeeping represents an alternative employment for the population in the underdeveloped rural areas providing additional income. Regarding the bill itself, the following is written in the motives of the Council of Ministers: The proposed bill aims to reduce the administrative burden by dropping the registration of bee families in the town halls. The existence of two registrations of establishments where bee families are kept in the town halls under the Beekeeping Act and the Regional Food Safety Directorates under the Animal Health Act create an additional administrative burden for bee owners. This is contrary to the principles laid down in the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business and now note the aim of which is to encourage and facilitate the conduct of business. Purpose: to encourage and facilitate business?! So far, so good, but let's see what is the opinion of the administration of the Council of Ministers on Section IV. There is a very significant remark here on Measure 147 for registration of bee owners and bee families provided by municipal administrations. But notice, Service 1101 "Registration of tribal and reproductive bees for the production of elite and tribal mothers and poisons and swarms" is not included. One remark, in practice, is the registration regime which has not been examined in this bill. Regarding the negative impacts there are also remarks from the Directorate of the Council of Ministers. Regarding Section X "Investigation on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises', see what is recorded: Here's a remark! As early as December, when we were looking at the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, I told you that the partial assessment that was made with the comments from the same administration of the Council of Ministers when it was submitted here for consideration was not a second partial assessment. Here, too, we see that there is no new partial impact assessment to reflect these remarks by the Council of Ministers. With regard to the partial assessment itself. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3. "Identifying stakeholders, owners of the families..... 13 771 pieces, and the town halls in the territory of the country... 3146 pieces. In point 5 "Negatives', see what is recorded in the partial assessment: "No negative effects' will be taken into account. In point 8.1: The administrative burden for natural and legal persons will be reduced to beekeeping owners, the administrative burden will be reduced by dropping the mandatory registration of bees in the town hall. Since the registration at the town hall is free, time will be saved to carry out it against the town halls on the territory of the country. Let's look now, however, at the opinion of the National Beekeeper Union, what they write in their opinion: The proposed bill has not been discussed with the National Beekeeper Union and has not been prepared by an interdepartmental working group, but has been prepared by employees of the specialized Directorate of Life Holding without consulting the stakeholders, as required by art. Art. 20, Art. 26 of the Law on Legislative Acts and Decree No 838 on its implementation. There is also a lack of opinion of the Advisory Council on Beekeeping, established by order of the Minister of Agriculture. It is particularly worrying that not even an opinion was taken by the National Association of Municipalities regarding the proposal for annulment of art. 8, para. 1 of the Law on the?...?....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a serious violation of art. 27, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts. It should also be noted that, frankly, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is misleading in the reasons for the need for the proposed changes by referring to Council Decision No 704 without providing evidence in this direction in the Report and in the reasons I have read you some of the reasons. Owners who are not establishments will not be deprived of the administrative burden, but the opposite will be aggravated. Since the registration of property under the Beekeeping Act is free and according to what is currently available under the Animal Health Act, fees will have to be paid. On the one hand, we are talking that the administrative burden will be reduced, that the beekeepers will not be financially aggravated, but that they will have to go to the territorial directorates of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is an extremely aggravating factor for them, as they are small and it makes no sense with this bill to burden them financially, except administratively with these proposals. For this reason, we at BSP will not support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u182	Thank you. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Beekeeping Act, No 002-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 130 MPs: 99 against 6, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DISCLOSURE BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE COUNTERPARTY'S COSTS AND THE PREVENTATION OF THE DISCLOSURE AND THE RECOGNITION OF DANISHING. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Ilieva, please present it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of evasion and circumvention of taxation, No 002-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. At its meeting on 9 December 2020, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. On 14 September 2020 in Sofia was signed an Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of evasion and circumvention of taxation. The agreements for the avoidance of double taxation (CCD) are an important element of the interstate contractual base, as they lead to the promotion of business and investment activities between countries. The Netherlands is one of the traditional and important trade and economic partners of Bulgaria. The trade is constantly increasing and in 2019 amounts to 1964,7 million. Euros. The Netherlands ranks tenth in exports and ninth in imports among the trade partners of Bulgaria. At present between Bulgaria and the Netherlands there is an effective Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of income tax evasion, signed in Sofia on 6 July 1990. The intensive economic relations and the increased movement of services, people and capital between Bulgaria and the Netherlands require, however, an update of the legal basis between the two countries. The main reasons that require the signing of a new BCCI are due to the substantial changes in the economic conditions and in the Bulgarian legislation after 1990. Moreover, some of its provisions do not correspond to the amendments to the Model Tax Agreement of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which Bulgaria follows in its contractual practice. In view of the above and on the basis of negotiations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands, a new Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of evasion and circumvention of taxation has been signed. The ratification and entry into force of the Agreement will create real prerequisites and better incentives for promoting and deepening bilateral economic cooperation. When negotiating the provisions of the Agreement, current standards and concepts in the field of international taxation are taken into account. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 12 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstention and without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of evasion and circumvention of taxation, No 002-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Procedure Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u185	Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure to extend the time until the final acceptance of this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u186	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 119 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Report from the Foreign Policy Committee, Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u187	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Draft Law on the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income tax for the prevention and circumvention of taxation, No 002-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. At its regular meeting on 9 December 2020, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Desislava Kaludova, Director of the Directorate of Double Taxation in the NRA. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted on 13 MPs, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and prevention, evasion and circumvention of taxation, No 002-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 November 2020. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u188	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of diversion and circumvention of taxation, No 002-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be reviewed and put to the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u190	I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please provide the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u191	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of diversion and circumvention of taxation A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of evasion and circumvention of taxation, signed on 14 September 2020 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-01-14.u192	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law as well as the content of a single member. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The texts have been adopted. I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication on 15 January 2021: 1. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer seven questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; Dora Yankova, Lubomir Bonev, Theodora Halacheva and Evdociya Asenova; Alexander Matsurev; Valentina Naydenova; Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; Milen Mihov; and Yavor Bozhankov. 2. Justice Minister Desislava Ahladova will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova. 4. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MP Yavor Bojankov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Emil Dimitrov will answer two questions from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov to five questions from the MPs Maria Tsvetkova; Krasimir Yankov and Nikolai Ivanov; Georgi Mihailov two questions; and Lalo Kirilov; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Nikolay Penev and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Lallo Kirilov. For lack of respectable reasons, Members of the National Assembly shall postpone the responses to: - one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and Minister of Tourism Mariana Nikolova; - a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Violeta Zheleva to the Minister of Health Kostadin Angelov; - a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 on 15 January 2021 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
