ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, in connection with yesterday's vote on the bills amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act, after I got acquainted with the transcripts, I listened to the audio recordings and reviewed the results of the vote, it was found that in the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on National Security by Mr. Hadjigenov there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[(Voices from GERB-SDS:]] First, less than 30 seconds have been voted, second, no result has been announced. At the second revoting, there is a lack of quorum and, in the absence of a quorum established by the President of Parliament, the meeting has not been suspended or a verification of the quorum has been requested. From then on, there are no valid decisions, and I believe that all votes are insignificant. [[Applause from IHN.]] Therefore, I propose that on today's agenda it be included as a point "Vote the bills for amendment and supplement of the National Security Service Act with importer Nikolay Hadzhigenov and importers Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. A counteroffer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Everyone we were in the room because you, Madam President, were not... [[And you weren't!]] It was me. You can check both the transcripts and my involvement. [[Reply from the National Representative Victoria Vasileva: "What is the procedure? "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u3	Mrs. Atanasova, I'm asking for the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u4	My procedure is a reverse proposal because I believe that a vote was taken yesterday and the two bills have not been adopted. [[crowd cheering]] Both bills weren't even passed at the re-voting! You, Madam President and your parliamentary group yesterday proposed extending the time for Parliament's legislative work until the end of the discussion and voting on the two draft laws for the National Security Service. Despite our comments and arguments from the group of GERB-SDS and from the group of BSP for Bulgaria to be examined today this bill, the majority rejected our proposals. Now we're in a situation where you're all trying to rewrite the rules and come up with new rules of the Constitution. This item was examined in yesterday's plenary session, on this point there have been several votes and there is no reason, Madam President, to again propose that this item be on the agenda for today's plenary session. Please follow the rules, follow the Constitution. I do not assume that you, of all people, have not read the rules governing the holding of a meeting, the voting and the adoption of bills, and you are making such a proposal. Therefore, colleagues, I object even to the President making such a proposal because, Madam President, you are first among equals. In addition, yesterday, if you claim that the point is not over, you have taken part in the debate, you are an importer of the Bill and you should not be in this place where you are. [[Applause from GERB-SDS, lines from ITN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Atanasova, the debate on the point is over. That's why I'm suggesting he joins the agenda today, and I'm not continuing with the point. This was my proposal to vote with a deliberate decision of parliament, as there is no valid solution. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] When there is no quorum, you cannot continue to vote on the bills, whatever they may be. Either the sitting shall be suspended or suspended or continued only with discussion. There's a violation of art. 62 of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 65 of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 46 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am putting the procedural motion to the vote. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u6	Madam President, if for a minute we assume that you are right today, then this means that the entire debate on the bill is insignificant and we must return not only to the vote, but to the holding of the entire debate, because the vote on the extension of working time itself was taken by less than 121 and by your logic is also negligible. And don't develop my thesis that there was a prior registration. [[Shouting from ICN: "Eee! "]] because I will read you your statement from this tribune, from there, and from August 4th: The problem here, colleagues, is not the Constitution or what we voted on. The problem is that, in the Rules of Procedure, it is understood and it is still understood, while we adopt these Rules, as I myself have proposed that this concept should be dropped in the Rules, precisely in order not to have these confusions, that the number of Members of the National Assembly who have been registered before the start of the vote is clearly stated, and that is why it must be 183. 92.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because it's the problem of our current rules, which defines it that way. [[Applause from IHN]] , and that, colleagues, you have applied it for so many years. However, we are now proposing that this thing be abolished and indeed the quorum be as it is and the majority as it is. If we accept what I have already proposed, yes, the proposal would be accepted. This, ma'am, is you, on August 4th of this year, watching these rules... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u7	Yes, thank you, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u8	...on August 4th. August 4th!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u9	That's the old rule book.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u10	Yes, and according to exactly the old rules, Mrs. Iva Miteva's proposal is accepted and the registration is no longer valid. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u11	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u12	Because if you did, tell me, which member is the one who was present for the previous period?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u13	This text does not apply, but it does apply art. 46, para. 3, which tells you: a check of the quorum in relation to the vote. In connection with the vote, the quorum was checked, 140 MPs were established, immediately after that there was a vote. Thank you. [[(Comments from GERB-SDS: There is no such! What was that?]] That was the way it was led. I have the right to respond in accordance with the rules, Mr. Ivanov. For 12 or 15 years in parliament, you should have learned that. [[Shouting from GERB-SDS: "Eee! "]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman... [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u15	Mrs. Alexandrova, no insults and no calls! I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u16	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u17	Here you go, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u18	Thank you. First of all, that you are in violation of the Rules above on the stands after you have participated in the debate on this bill. You don't have a seat upstairs on the stands. It's written in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u19	The debate is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u20	It's written in the Rules. Read it! That's where I start. Then how did you find that there was no quorum of the first vote on the first bill? You know very well what a quorum means on a Constitution. "Accomplishees" in the Chamber, not "voteers in the Chamber." That was your thesis when we accepted this point to be examined. And I am inclined to agree with you because you said: 113 votes, but there were MPs in this House who did not vote... [[Reply from MP Maria Kapon.]] What's accepted? It's accepted, of course it's accepted. We were looking at the Bill yesterday. Of course it's accepted, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u21	All right, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u22	...but how did you establish that there is no quorum in this House, which you now claim, when voting on the first bill? There was no roll call check, and the quorum, as you well know in the Constitution, can be established in any way, by all means. That is to say, you should now show us your ways of establishing that there is no quorum during the vote on the first bill, as there were people in this House who did not vote. From now on, you're ruined and this thesis. Please stop violating the Rules of Procedure because it doesn't suit you. You're the chairman of parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u23	Mr. Glauchev, the lack of quorum has been established by the President of Parliament. It explicitly says that there is no quorum, interrupts the sitting and, having returned after the second vote on the first bill, should have asked for a quorum check already. She doesn't. Once again, he says: "There is no opinion. " And although he finds that there is no quorum, rather than closing the meeting, he continues the meeting and the votes. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I have one suggestion that I think will put some sense into this whole situation. Before what Mr. Gajev has also put forward, given the arguments that you have put forward, Mrs. Miteva, if we apply your arguments only for the vote, the debate will prove to be insignificant and illegal. That is why my proposal is from the high platform to include on the agenda for Wednesday the New Review Bill, the two bills for a new examination, new debates and a new vote on Wednesday. Thank you. [[Shouting from ISN: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I am not going to do this because when discussing the laws, the quorum is not required and this is a amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u26	Madam President, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u27	The requirement is for a vote. A discussion can be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u28	It's an extension of time!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u29	The extension of time. There was a quorum check just before the vote. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] There was a check of the quorum and the quorum found that there was 121. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u30	Madam President, colleagues! I'd rather explain what's really the problem, what happened yesterday? Yesterday Mr. Vigenin warned you that it is better to vote on this law today and to discuss it, we too. Mrs. Atanasova came out and said, "Let's watch it Friday." There were statements: no, absolutely not. You all knew that BSP colleagues had a National Council and would not be in the Chamber. You started acting first and then you started thinking about what was going to happen next. Now you have thought that what you did yesterday, from a political point of view, was nonsense. First you acted, then you thought, as happens in this Parliament about almost every law. First you do something and then you realize you're in some kind of trouble. The procedure is this: think about it! [[Speaks and exclaims: "Eee! "]] Yesterday, if you had a simple sense of what was going to happen in an hour, you could have prevented this whole mess from happening here, and now the whole parliament is starting to clean up the crap that you did yesterday. So I'm going to tell you, I suggest tomorrow, at nine o'clock, we get back together and one more time we watch the NSO Law, and the next day we watch it one more time, and that way we can watch it another week. It is a parliament to follow the rules, to follow the political logic. Don't think about it! Next time you'll have more experience and think before you do anything. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. In this case, the Rules are violated by the President of Parliament in voting on the bills. Here you go, Mrs. Kirova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I held yesterday's meeting and a large part of the MPs who were not present in the Chamber, perhaps they did not get acquainted with the transcript, but after the first vote was passed and announced that the bill was not adopted, I did the same in a second vote, I think you are all aware that the electronic system showed the number of MPs who were present in the Chamber and participated in the vote, showed them and did not have the necessary majority to vote on the relevant bill. [[Laughter]] [[Shouting from ICN: "Eee! "]] So I suggest that we do not speculate with the Rules of Procedure and with the Rules, and when the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are drawn up, something that we did in the 45th National Assembly, and that we did in the 46th National Assembly, should not leave loopholes to allow for any kind of interpretations. The Quickly Made Rules led us to this. [[(IN lines: "We are waiting for an apology from you. Shame on you!]] No reason!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u33	Mrs. Kirova, at the moment you admitted that there was no quorum after the first vote, that is to say that the votes should not have continued. [[Reply from the People's Representative Maria Kapon.]] No, I'm just listening to what Mrs. Kirova says. Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u34	There's a transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u35	There's a transcript, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday during the procedure I took, I explained to you that the first vote did not actually take place and it was clear to everyone that there was no quorum. So whether anyone's going to Buzludja's pilgrimage or Bankya's his problem. When the National Assembly works, it works. And we were absolutely aware here in this Chamber that there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President, and we raised this question several times. So please, Madam President, let's proceed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Alexander Ivanov wanted the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! I allow myself to take the procedure in the manner of conduct, because you have made a proposal which I will challenge under the Rules of Procedure because yesterday I was in the Chamber of All Votings. [[Noise and lines.]] In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]] Whoever says it's not true, let's have a look at their records and your transcripts. Thank you. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 because one of your arguments for a re-voting, that is to say a beating of the vote on the bills yesterday, is based on the fact that no vote has been allowed for more than 30 seconds. As present in this House, I will share the following: it was over 30 and it is based on the Rules of Procedure: Before the vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u39	It's twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u40	...the President invites the MPs to take their seats. The voting time per article. 60, para. 2, p. 1 is up to a minute, but not less than 30 seconds. Colleagues, in the vote yesterday, all the votes simply did not have the necessary number to pass the bills. Therefore, I cannot really understand, Madam President, what procedure do you propose that we examine the bill or vote it a third time, which is also contrary to our rules and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u41	Mr. Ivanov, I have announced that there are no valid solutions. So you don't have a vote the first time. And what you're saying at the very first vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u42	No, no, no. You, Madam President, are saying that the time it was is under.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u43	Mr. Ivanov, for the first bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u44	And for the people we've been in this room, by the rules and by the dashboard...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u45	On the dashboard. Here it is on the dashboard 20 seconds. 20 seconds, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u46	No, no, no. It was canceled and re-released. That's not true, Madam President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry you weren't in the gym, and you had important others...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u47	I'm looking at the printouts and I've seen them...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u48	With your bill we were looking at, not being in the gym wasn't respect for the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u49	Mr. Ivanov, I've reviewed the video and listened to the audio. Here you are, Mr. Hadjigenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be very short. Wicked actions do not cause legal consequences. Simply in 20 seconds, there is no vote. We're done here. The hearing should have been closed by then. So all these actions have been corrupted. Henceforth, the only thing we can and must do when there is an open... [[Heckling]] So, this conversation, if you're holding, we can pick it up later in the hallway. [[Heckling]] Yeah, not here! [[Heckling]] The only thing we can do with an open day item on the agenda is to move on. Everything else is a free interpretation. I'm putting aside the fact that there were a bunch of parliamentary groups like Matrosov on the ambrazor here, you see, we're gonna protect the NSO. Is someone seriously going to kill Boyko Borisov? Please! Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u51	Thank you, Mr. Hadjigenov. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in fact yesterday's incident is proof of why this Parliament cannot produce anything meaningful. Colleagues, this was the first bill we have seen in this National Assembly, and look where we are.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u53	He's not the first.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u54	Madam President, yesterday I was really willing, after the first voting situation to extend the working hours, to congratulate you, because you actually took your principled position, which you defended in the previous Parliament. After that, however, I don't want to use such a strong word now, but still the chairman of your group Mr. Yordanov humiliated you publicly from this tribune, and you changed your mind very quickly. We're not blind. Then, at the very vote of the laws of NSO, you were gone, and you are the importer of one of the bills. It's not a coincidence, is it, Madam President, or am I making a mistake?! So I ask you to please still have a few more days to live in this Parliament! You defended a position, it was principled. We had disputes with you in the previous Parliament, and at the beginning of this on the Staff Regulations, what a quorum is, how much should be present and how this must be established in the Chamber. You had the principled position, you had your right, we were in the other position, because in the years back in another way, in another tradition Parliament worked, in fact you turned this way of voting upside down. Please, at least in the last days of the National Assembly, to defend this principled position, because we are not blind and actually saw what happened yesterday. For a reason, Madam President, you weren't in the Chamber, were you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u55	Mr. Nenkov, I was in an official meeting planned for a week and I couldn't stop it. Including the meeting was attended by MPs, which I think was quite shocking for the official guests. Secondly, I haven't changed my position at all. My position is solid and is the same, and is consistent with the Bulgarian Constitution. The change in the registration rules is from 2007. We just returned the old practice from before 2007, including constitutional practice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u56	A few things. First of all, I apologize for yesterday's tone with Madam President, but not for what I did, because I still think I was right, but I had to do it in a softer tone. Secondly, in our group we are free people and we talk as free people, as equal people and not as political hypocrites as you are in GERB, to the superiors.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u57	Come on, knock it off!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u58	Thirdly, yesterday and today we are debating and talking on this topic because the replacement chairman from your group Mrs. Rositsa Kirova showed total incompetence, incompetence, which led the National Assembly to this toupik. [[Applause from IHN.]] Fourth, now that this point is voted, it will be seen who in this room support Boyko Borisov to remain with security and who support Tsveta Karayancheva to remain with security. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u59	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u60	Madam President, don't let this tribune offend the Vice-President of the National Assembly! Yesterday you allowed Mr. Toshko Tsvetanov to insult the President of the National Assembly again, today you allow Mr. Tsvetanov to insult the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr. Toshko Tsvetanov is already a criminal in this direction. Shame on you, Mr. Toshko Tsvetanov! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u61	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Cholakov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u62	It seems to me, Madam President and honourable Members, that before we vote already, whatever is in this House, we must first review once again the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Colleagues and honourable President, I find it uncomfortable and I find it an absolute scandal in this Parliament that, in fact, for two Parliaments already, it is impossible to understand how to vote and what the rules of procedure are. I do not believe in the history of Bulgarian parliamentaryism that there has been such a situation, colleagues, in which the national representation does not know how to vote, does not know when there is a quorum, does not know when the voters are equal to those present and what we do here at all. So these are axiomatic situations in the textbooks, and we're constantly interpreting. I do not know whether you are uncomfortable that we interpret how the National Assembly works, something that should be unapproachably clear?! And all this, colleagues, is due to your incompetence, the incompetence of the minority. Can't you see that anything you touch doesn't work?! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] How many times do you have to see that whatever you touch fails and it started with your Election Code in the previous parliament?! And we warned you: you can't! [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u63	Mr. Cholakov. Mr. Delchev, in the manner of conduct! [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall! Mr. Delchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! Yes, indeed there is a problem with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the problem is that the management of the National Assembly interprets the Rules in a completely different way when Mrs. Miteva is on the stand, the Rules are interpreted correctly and the National Assembly's meeting is going. [[Applause from IHN.]] When Mrs Kirova is on the stand, the rules are interpreted as the devil's gospel. For example, Mr. Nenkov, we are not blind and we are not stupid to forget that Mrs. Kirova left the stands of the National Assembly yesterday, disappeared somewhere without a break, and without complying with the Rules to go to consult whether or not a bill was adopted. [[Applause from IHN.]] Given that we have been adopting decisions, bills and any other acts for the last two months, [[(a line from the MP Desislava Atanasova: When did you accept something?]] She didn't have the Rules next to her and had to go to consult, apparently with someone from GERB's group. In the same way, Mrs. Kirova held a vote after it was clear that there was no quorum, only then she thought to cancel the vote and ask for a check of the quorum was checked the quorum, there was a So, colleagues, let us be clear about one thing: the GERB are here, in the Chamber, with only one purpose, namely: not to accept anything until the end of this National Assembly, including the update of the budget. Let's not fall into their heads and work as the Rules command! Thank you. [[Applause from ICN and IBBNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Kirova, come in, even though you have no right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u66	You mentioned me a few times, so I take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u67	It is in speech, not in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u68	Yes, I left the stands and went to Mrs. Iva Miteva's office and tried to contact her because I have attended the National Assembly meetings and I know how she interprets the Rules. That's the reason... I rested and this is the reason why I declared the bills not applicable, because I know what the practice is and I tried to stick to it. [[Reply.]] [[noise and lines]] And if that's a sin, maybe I was wrong?! But I think it's a sin to want to vote to the core until you get the result you have in mind, provided you don't have the necessary majority, because it corrupts everything the meaning of being here, being different and thinking differently. When you want to pass a bill and it passes, you try to talk to other groups and explain your point of view and position, you don't rush, you don't do it in two days, you don't do it in 24 hours, you discuss it with everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kirova. Mrs. Manolova, you wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u70	Honourable Members, Madam President! I think all views have been heard and all interpretations of the Rules have been presented several times by some GERB MPs from the parliamentary platform. We have understood your thesis, we have also seen the inadequate behaviour of your Vice-President yesterday during the vote on this bill. It is clear that you will do everything possible to prevent the Law on the privileges of persons holding high public positions from being adopted. You will protect the privileges of both the MPs and the ministers and the prosecutors. [[Noise and lines.]] It is clear that you will protect them, but this debate, in which all points of view have already been heard, must end and vote. You have the opportunity to attack the Law before the Constitutional Court and you can do so, and until then stop sabotaging the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u72	This vote will confirm that you will keep the privileges, keep them to the fullest, both your personal and your superiors, but the matter must be resolved by voting. Please, at least for a procedure in the manner of conduct, do not give the word to the same person several times, to the same MP. This is distorting the spirit of the Rules of Procedure at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u74	We've heard the points of view, let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u75	Mrs. Doncheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u76	Dear colleagues, I take the word with great inconvenience, after half an hour waiting for it with my hand raised and straight in the back. When we have brought parliament to each group to land its vice-president and to say that only her vice-president leads properly, unlike everyone else, we have gone wrong. In fact, there is only one point of order, not all of which have been listed, because such details can be found in any shorthand protocol under any little nervous law on which there are few different opinions. The argument is about the following: what is the meaning of the present and what is the meaning of the words of the voice? Were there more than 121 people in the room? Did more than 121 vote? What marks the verification of the quorum before the second ICN law, before its vote, and what marks the previous vote for the draft of my colleague Hadjigenov, where no verification of the quorum was carried out? Yes, people came in and out of the hall, but one part of GERB came in and out immediately to be marked for the inspection. I'm very sorry, colleagues, it's very nice, when you decide that you're going to ruin the quorum, to do it all the way, and not a couple of smart guys fighting for their 50 levs to go inside. But this is just for fun. The principle question is: do we accept that there is a quorum when there are people in this House, even though they do not participate in the vote, but there are obviously fewer than 120 people in the vote itself? This was also regarding the draft of colleague Hadjigenov, who also gathered about 100 votes as they participated in the vote. Maybe there were more people in the gym. This was also the problem with the IHN Bill. There's no broken procedure in this thing. There is only one thing, Madam President, or you apply the Rules as we agreed in the 45th and 46th National Assembly that in order to restore parliamentaryism, the law, whoever the law, will be voted by at least 121 people, and we will not accept... [[Noise and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB-SDS.]] Please don't interrupt me. ...and we won't pass laws with 61! On the procedural issues of extending the agenda, entering points, drawing points may have something else, because in the Constitution it is not affected, and we will interpret the Rules as it is written, with the queue. Unless otherwise provided in the Constitution. However, when we have said so, let us do so if we are going to restore parliamentaryism. If we are not going to restore parliamentaryism, because when we are ruling, we may have the same problem that we have before us, then we will be driving as it is, and with 61 votes we will accept them, we will be talking about the electronic system, and all will be six. Now you only have two exits.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Doncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u78	Now you only have two exits. And I offer you the following, so that Mrs. Manolova will not say that all funds are exhausted. Sign yesterday's decision as you see fit and as your conscience and professional knowledge dictate to you. If you believe that the bills have been adopted, because in the Chamber in the electronic system it has been noted that there are 140, 125 or as many people respectively, i.e. accept that there is a quorum, accept them as accepted. You sign this act and put them on second reading. You, on your conscience. We do not need to twist the House's hands to vote for the tenth time, because we are not in a better and more favourable situation. And as far as propaganda interpretations are concerned, everyone can interpret them as they please. And say that it is a privilege for the chief prosecutor of the state to be with security, because I accept that the chief prosecutor will not only be called Ivan Geshev, it will not be life-saving until the end of the world Ivan Geshev and that by having to remove Ivan Geshev, we will remove him, but we will not leave the chief prosecutor of the state without security because someone has gone somewhere and he does not know where. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] So I suggest you sign the bill of acceptance, not run procedures for us. It's like taking one game back 30 minutes and telling me that 40 minutes ago it happened like that, so, the side judge made a mistake and the other. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u79	Mrs. Doncheva, thank you. This could be... [[The National Representative Alexander Ivanov wants the floor.]] Mr. Ivanov, I've already given you the floor. Mrs. Doncheva, this may be true if there is no inspection of the quorum before the vote. When an inspection of the quorum is carried out immediately prior to the vote and voted, then you do not need to have 121 people voted, as the Constitutional Court accepts that the verification has established 121 and they are located in the Chamber but have not participated in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u80	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u81	How is that not true? With regard to Mr. Hadjigenov's bills, we do not have valid votes. There it was established at the first bill that there was no quorum and the meeting had to be terminated or the vote stopped. It goes on with the votes. I'm voting on my procedural proposal. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. National Representative Alexander Ivanov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Mr. Ivanov, I gave you the manner of conduct. I don't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u82	Madam President... [[The President Eva Miteva turns off the speaker's microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u83	I don't give you my word. Several times you take the word in the manner of conduct! I won't give you the floor. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS. The orator continues to speak with microphones off. National Representative Alexander Ivanov points his phone to President Iva Miteva.]] Let someone else ask me. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Mr. Ivanov, you went out on the stand, you went out twice. [[Reply by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] You're using... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u84	Madam President, thank you. It's the way it's supposed to be. Since you quoted, you must have met the transcript from yesterday, because you really did for reasons you said you were not present, I came to a very interesting moment, because I was also in the Chamber then, and I remember it, and it is very important that the National Assembly receive the answer to what I am going to ask. Mr. Stanislav Balabanov from ISN, reading the shorthand, colleagues, from yesterday: As President of the National Assembly Iva Miteva is at an important meeting in her office, she has just authorized Mrs. Victoria Vasileva to lead the meeting. ............................................... [[Applause from IHN.]] And now, Madam President, it is very important that I ask: when you were at the important meeting, did you personally authorize Mr. Balabanov to authorise him another MP to chair the National Assembly, or did he make it up, or in some other form? Because it is very important that if we are going to return the spirit of parliamentaryism to the MPs of this tribune, they should use your name as the first among equals so that they can... [[Replication by MP Nikolai Hadzhigenov.]] No, this is very important. We want to restore the spirit of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u85	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u86	And my question is personal to you in the manner of conduct, because you have been familiar with the shorthand: at what point did you interrupt the meeting or whom did you authorize so that another MP could go out and say who to lead the National Assembly? It is very important, colleagues, when we want to see the truth, to see it to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u87	A temporary committee to investigate the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u88	So please tell me! During the meeting to come out a Member of the National Assembly, to use your name to change the composition of the management of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[Noise and lines from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are going to vote on the procedural proposal. [[Loud noise and lines. MPs from GERB-SDS are in front of the banks.]] Please, fellow MPs, take your seats! We are going to vote on the procedural proposal made by me to include the two voting bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u90	Madam President, procedure! A declaration on behalf of a group!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u91	All right, come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Madam President! I'd like to introduce you to the content of art. 65 of our Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u93	Is that a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u94	No, procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u95	You said a group statement, ma'am...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u96	Sorry, lapsus.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u97	Then I don't give you my word. You've already had your way. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u98	It's important, that's all we have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u99	Please! [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u100	Madam President, it is important to clarify art. 65 of our regulations. Colleagues, it is important for the entire Chamber to continue this sitting as well. Alinea 2 states: "When the revoting procedure or its outcome is challenged immediately after its completion, the President shall order it to be repeated. The result of the re-vote is final. Dear colleagues, all of you who were in this House yesterday, how many times did we vote on the two bills? Vote, re-vote, vote, re-vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. [[The President Eva Miteva turns off the speaker's microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mrs. Atanasova, I explained to you that there is no valid first vote, so you can't have a revoting when you don't have a announced result. And violation of the Rules of Procedure, vote in less than 30 seconds. [[Applause from IHN.]] So you don't have a valid first vote to have... [[Reply: "Not true! "]] Well, how is that not true? [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. MPs from GERB-SDS are in front of the banks.]] I ask the MPs to take their seats. Please take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u102	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u103	Madam President, please follow the rules. There can be no third vote on the same bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u104	There is no first vote to have a third vote, Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u105	The Constitutional Court has made its decision to have... [[The President Eva Miteva turns off the speaker's microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u106	Mrs. Atanasova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u107	I'm asking you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u108	I think you went out a few times, we heard your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u109	I didn't get out of the procedure in the manner of conduct. Madam President, please. Mrs. Doncheva has more parliamentary experience. [[Radio.]] Please listen to her arguments as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u110	We didn't accept it! Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u111	I understand you're in a difficult situation right now, Madam President. On the one hand, you should do the will of your parliamentary group. But, Madam President, first of all, you are the President of the Bulgarian Parliament. I was uncomfortable when you were asked to leave the House for the vote of your Prime Minister's candidacy and refused it for personal reasons, but now, please, act as President of this National Assembly and follow the Rules and Constitution! You're not doing the right thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u112	Mrs. Atanasova, I respect the Constitution and the Rules and I have pointed to several violations of the Rules. There are no valid votes!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u113	I want procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u114	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! There were people sitting on your chair like... [[beeping loudly]] Zahari Stoyanov, like Stefan Stambolov, like Todor Ikonomov, like Petko Slaveykov. Your chair obliges! Right now what you're doing is a farce. You were, Madam President, one of the few decent faces of the 45th and 46th National Assembly. [[Chattering on banks and shouting: "Eee!"]] You were a man who looked decent, who looked like a good lawyer, who looked like a man who wanted to restore parliamentaryism. Right now you're about to become exactly what you claim to want to fight. You're trying to impose some dictatorship here, a dictatorship against rules, a dictatorship against common sense. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] We are not talking essentially about what your proposals are to remove the guards of a former prime minister and of an acting chief prosecutor who are absurd throughout the world. We're talking about how procedurally you violate absolutely everything common sense dictates. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Just because I respect the Rules and the Constitution, I think there are no valid votes. I've said it a few times. You cannot go to revotes when you do not have a first valid vote and when you have found a lack of quorum by the President of the National Assembly. How are you going to vote when you say you don't have a quorum? The constitution is clear, as are the Rules of the National Assembly. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u117	Procedure in the manner of conduct! You can't stop me from procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u118	Mr. Manev, what is your procedure again in the manner of conduct?! Come on in and we'll move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u119	Dear colleagues, let's stop this hysteria. Let's stop this hysteria here because things are getting very rural! The Quaestors of the National Assembly are placed in a situation to pull MPs who want the floor. Madam President is in an uncomfortable situation... [[Noise and lines. Crashing banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u120	Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u121	...my time until this stops! [[Noise and lines. Crashing banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u122	Quiet, please! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u123	I didn't give you any reason to bang, but you can keep going. In fact, my procedure is as follows: save the chairman from what is happening to her. Put Mrs. Tatiana Doncheva on a calm and normal person. [[(Voices from ISN:]] And one more thing, Mr. Balabanov, come out and answer the question they asked the chairman because she doesn't want to. [[Reply by MP Stanislav Balabanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u124	Don't call me that, man. Yesterday I explained to you and to another colleague that this language and I know it, but it's for the street, it's not for here, and when you say it was, you have to say it, and it hurts. Thank you. [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u125	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Please take your seats, we're going to vote on the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u126	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u127	I'm interrupting the meeting for half an hour. Presidential Council. [[After the break.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u128	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. After the call for Presidential Council and its violent debates, I must make the following decision: I proposed a procedure to return the vote on both bills. Here in plenary, I have heard that the Rules have not been violated and that the decisions taken are valid. The President of the National Assembly has not suspended the meeting after having established a quorum, the sitting continued. At the request of the National Representative Maya Manolova, the quorum was checked before the revision of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act submitted by Iva Miteva and MPs. A vote on which 101 Members of the National Assembly voted shall be established immediately thereafter. As a result, I hereby declare the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Security Service Act submitted by Iva Miteva and a group of MPs. [[Loud applause. National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants a procedure.]] We continue with the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE EXECUTIVE AGENCY OF THE GORE ALEXANDER DUNCHEV 110 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HUNTING STOCKS, HUNTING BASES AND THE AGREEMENTS ON THE MANAGEMENT OF HUNTING TERRITORIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is Borislav Sandov, 17 August 2021. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I hope that you are aware clearly of what you have just done, in the sense of the following: more than an hour ago, you have argued that the procedure has not been followed, and that is why you have proposed that the re-voting of the two bills should be the first item on the agenda once again. Now you are doing the exact opposite with the argument that the procedure has been followed and that is why the Law of the "There is such a people" to amend and supplement the Law of the National Assembly yesterday has been adopted, although the meeting has been closed, although there is a announced result and this result is from a vote without the necessary votes to adopt the Law, and these are the necessary 121 MPs. There's no question about that! I'm sorry you're a doctor of constitutional law and you claim to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. You may challenge this decision before the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u131	Mrs. Miteva, I believe that there is still time to change your position for the third time and you should do so because otherwise not only in this legislation, but in each of the following, any future president of the Bulgarian Parliament would benefit from your wicked parliamentary practice. [[Applause from GERB-SDS]] Please, if you need any more rest, reconsider. I'm prepared on behalf of our parliamentary group even to provide it for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u133	Don't do that! This is against the rules and the Constitution!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I hope you will attack the Constitutional Court Act and the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u135	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making the following proposal and I would ask you to put it to the vote with this argument. The truth is, colleagues, there were very few MPs in the Chamber yesterday. [[Noise and lines.]] No, no, I mean not enough to get a serious discussion of the bills essentially. One of the major parliamentary groups here, namely the BSP group, was absent entirely, the DPS group was gone and I felt that all views could not be heard at all. We're stuck in some procedural rules. You know that when a procedure is used to push through one or another solution, it is not good because it interferes with the debate on the substance, and the House has to debate on the substance. Therefore, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal that the two bills be re-entered, that we no longer become entangled in these procedural bats, for discussion, to hear all possible points of view, to be present all the groups in this House, so that we can vote as people and not become more entangled in this batak. That's the second time I've said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u136	Mr. Cholakov, the debate has been closed. I think you all claimed that the votes were closed, too. That is why, after the Presidency Council, I have now taken this decision, as you have all accepted that the actions of the President of Parliament have been sanitized with the verification of a quorum which was made before the re-voting of the second bill. So this was in view of the situation that has been created, the only correct solution at the moment to announce that the second bill has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I truly sympathize with you, Madam President, because under the dictation not of the plenary, not of some presidential council, but under the dictation of your parliamentary group, you are placed in a situation where you are once again changing your opinion. The sad thing really is that from now on it will be used by each other's chairman when he wants to push through in some way, so that he can use precisely that day, which you have corrupted today, because you have changed your mind several times and have not defended your thesis that you have been defending for so many weeks. Since we have known each other for a long time, I know that you are a capable lawyer, and I am convinced that you are very well aware of what you are doing, but under the dictatorship and under the press of your chairman, your parliamentary group, you tend to swallow your opinions in the name of this simply to please. If you really wanted both bills passed yesterday, you would have entered the room the moment you saw them. Even if you had a meeting, you could have walked into the room right at the moment when the big questions came up, but you deliberately didn't. You deliberately didn't do it! And I'm asking you a rhetorical question: okay, if we're looking at two NTAC bills now, then I'm just scared of what's going to happen, which we're going to take to the second vote on the state budget. That is the problem, Madam President, and honourable Members, when you do not have a majority, when there is no clear majority, these cataclysms occur. Imagine what will happen when we start to look at a second vote text on the state budget text, without a clear majority of each proposed anything. Tough and woe to this country! [[Private applause by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u138	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I am consistent with what I say about the quorum and those present. I think I have repeatedly cited the Constitutional Court's practice and said that we have returned to it before 2007. Here you go, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u139	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! To return the subject to where it belongs in the mermaid of compliance with procedures. Your autonomous decision will be subject to challenge if it is taken as you have declared, in another order. However, our rules are laid down in the Rules of Procedure and you have, according to the same, at the beginning of the sitting, made a proposal to include the two draft laws on the agenda. We're still in this procedure. We didn't vote on it. We went on a break and, starting the meeting after the break, we have to go back to this stage, that is, we have to run out of procedure. If we don't, we're gonna start tying up the rules so we can end up at some weedurma, so I'm sorry about the strangers. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u140	Mr. Zhelyazkov, I made the procedure very clear this morning. No one supported my procedure. You can see what the hall was like. I called upon the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Presidents to take this decision with the majority of the votes. [[(Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova: This is not true!]] Not unanimously, I don't say unanimously, but I say with the majority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u141	Honourable Members, Madam President! Those of you who know me well know that I rarely leave my sphere of competence and influence. I come from the local authorities. [[(Sighs:) From ICN.)]] And I believe, and I still believe that this is a good foundation and a good building school. Dear colleagues, local, small parliaments have always had the National Assembly as a model of conduct. Believe me, the National Assembly is not a good example at the moment. A severe crisis of meaning has settled in the National Assembly. The only difference between the 45th and 46th National Assembly is that we were still able to issue our Rules in a book body, but not to learn it. I dare say that even the smallest, deeply provincial municipal council seems more meaningful and meaningful than this National Assembly. And the sooner we finish our work, the easier it will be to sanitize the damage from the mischief we'll do for the rest of our lives. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u142	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For an hour and a half we've wasted parliamentary time, I'm not going to go into populism about how much this cost the taxpayers, arguing about a crazy procedure that you proposed at the very beginning. How did you get to the whole thing? Well, from a high self-confidence without lining up yesterday afternoon, when the meeting was held with a clear awareness that it would come to this point. But I do have one specific question to make it clear. Let us accept your thesis that you will take responsibility for signing the Bill, that it has passed at first reading, it is your responsibility. But between the two votes, i.e. in the procedure for re-voting the Law submitted by the "There is such a people" from this tribune, one MP came out and said that you authorized him to change the lead, that is, that is, that you said that the host should be Mrs. Victoria Vasileva. Let's get this straight now, because that means that the host at the time wasn't authorized, you authorized someone else. Is that true or a lie? Because assuming yours that the Law has been passed, that means that this MP has lied from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u144	Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u145	Please respond to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u146	Mr. Gazhev, in my office came, yes, Mr. Balabanov and I told him Mrs. Vasileva to start the meeting and take the chair. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] That was my answer because I was in an official meeting and I would like to tell you that the guest was shocked by what is happening in plenary and in the National Assembly. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't understand the case with Mr. Balabanov, how does he relate to the legality of the act we are discussing? Come on, do you want to insult Mr. Balabanov and plow? You're a pitcher, aren't you, like this. [[Applause from IBBNI.]] Let us end this because it has nothing to do with the adoption of this legislation. I also hear things as enough, very little and more in terms of those present in the Chamber and the debate. The Law hasn't shown enough, it doesn't say enough anywhere. There are some numbers and quantities that are clearly indicated. So please, you are lawyers, I am not a lawyer, enough, much and little is written either in the Rules or in the Constitution. Please stick to the clear agenda! The desire obviously of the political party GERB and the remnants of the SDS are not to have a job in parliament. Obviously, the desire is not to have a job in parliament, the chaos to be generated and from there to wait with bright eyes for order in chaos. We won't wait for him, don't worry. Let the National Assembly work, do not enjoy the comments that parliament is no good for nothing, because, first of all, you were no good for anything or you wouldn't be so much. Don't practice on Mrs. Miteva. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] Ms. Miteva is President of the National Assembly, who is trying to do her job despite your persistent desire to sabotage the work of the National Assembly. This is what you did during your favorite partner Oresharski and his sponsor and left the National Assembly so there would be no quorum. We all remember that very well. Now you're doing the same thing, taking advantage of the procedure to make sure everyone doesn't work. On the contrary, everyone else on the left and on the right is working, and you are practicing on the Rules. Do you want to move on, or do you want to have fun with the Rules? [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u148	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! It's like the role of the National Assembly is to make decisions. The role of neighborhood pubs and rural megdani is to comment on these solutions. We've made a decision, you've announced that the point is closed, and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u150	No decision has been made.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u151	That we continue to comment on this decision, which has already been made, makes us nothing more than a rural pub, a rural megdan or a market, or whatever you call it. But please, let's move on, because this thing, like Mr. Nenkov just said, is going to fall on our heads during the budget update. GERB are very clear in what they plan to continue to do during the budget update, and if we are merciful and yielding this update will last for half a year. So please, let's continue with the procedure. There's a next item on the agenda and we've already done as the village megdan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u152	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u153	Madam President, two things. One is that we already have a changed situation here. Since it turns out that from one moment on yesterday the sitting was conducted illegitimately by Mrs. Rositsa Kirova, since you authorized another, he came, and she has not returned, means that we should probably look at these laws again, if so? And you can decide that now. We've made a decision here. No, we haven't made any decision, Mrs. Miteva has decided. Has anyone made a decision here in this room? Mrs. Miteva has decided! [[Laughter and lines in IHN.]] I'll tell you why this is happening because you can't count to 240. You are in a situation where you are currently facing reality. You were going to make government with 65 MPs? Now you think you have a majority, but you can't formulate yourself what this majority is. Who are you? Because you're yelling at us. Who are you? Are you the ruling majority, the opposition? Who are you? Are you an offerer, who are you? You're pitchers, nothing more than that. You don't have a majority and it will really happen next week, I'm extremely scared, it's not GERB's fault. Yes, we are opposition from the first day of the 45th and 46th National Assembly. It is your commitment to make a majority, not ours, and when you update the budget next week, and we all update here, you will see what will happen because you have no experience with such a thing. We know very well what it is to organise a majority, to stand up for certain texts, to coordinate with each other. You're absurd to do this. And this case, which you are turning now, will bring you even bigger problems next week, as your unwise decision not to look at the NTAC Act today has brought you problems, but is seen yesterday at 3 pm. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u154	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u155	In fact, colleagues, I disagree with a very large part of my fellow Members who are speaking here. It's not a result of ignorance, of not being able to count, of not knowing the Rules. All that is happening is a well-planned act, a well-planned act, to continue yesterday when there are no BSPs, and we all know that they will be gone for a week. A well-planned act that all this mess, the circus, whatever you want, I insult the circus, and I apologize to everyone who's connected to this art. A well-planned act, not by accident. We do not want to delay anything in this National Assembly. You pawned it. You pawned it on purpose. You pawned it knowing why you were doing it. I'm not gonna tell you what your ideas were. You, if you have dignity, will say them. Who do you want to punish by dragging out the work of the National Assembly, which is so important, but it is so crucial at the moment that the Law on the National Assembly gives out personal punishments through it, that there is nothing more important in the work of the National Assembly, and there is nothing more important for you than to play hysterics here, catching up, showing who can speak than this tribune, who can point a finger. A tragedy at all! And you're doing this on purpose, you're doing it on purpose!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u156	It shows a finger.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u157	I've told you where to put it. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u158	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u159	Madam President, honourable Members! Procedure in the manner of conduct. I ask you very much to pay attention to Mr. Babikan and other colleagues who have the habit of coming out here and insulting parties, insulting entire parties, stop doing so, because this is diverting us from good tone and hindering us from a fruitful discussion. I said it earlier, and now I'm going to say it again, no, I'm actually going to quote Mr. Bikov, who paid attention to you. So the task of whoever wants to pass a bill is to make a majority, and before passing a bill his task is to make a government. If he can't make a government and can't make a majority, he can't pass laws, and that has to be crystal clear. You can't, you can't, you can't pass laws, you're not, and it's all agony and some childish racketeering. Only there's no negotiating with racketeers, especially small-time racketeers.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u160	Is that why you're not negotiating with us?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u161	I repeat my proposal, Mrs. Miteva, that we put both of you back on the debate because, apart from procedure, you will see that you cannot and, in essence, you are not reformers. What has been proposed as bills, colleagues, and I would like to discuss it once again, it does not provide for a reform of the NSO, you do not even know how it is done.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u162	We're not reforming.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u163	Come and ask, no, no, come ask us to explain how reform is being made. Because what you want to achieve, in fact, you will not achieve it and only waste time, colleagues, in procedure and in bankruptcy, and in procedure and content. I'm very sorry for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u164	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u165	There is no government in this Parliament just because there are free parties this time. [[Noise and lines from GERB-SDS.]] The free parties did not agree because they had their own opinion. The last regular government that this country had was a totalitarian party with two adjoining bells. In principle, I do not pretend to be a prophet, but I keep thinking that in the next parliament there will be a regular government and GERB will not participate in it. [[Applause from IHN.]] And now because you said someone was insulting parties, there was no such thing. Now there will be. I will insult the GERB party and say that this is a mafia structure. [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u166	Mr. Yordanov, I'm making a note. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam Chairman, where did Mr. Yordanov go? What you're doing, you know what they say? It's frustration when you're powerless, when you're untenable, when you don't know how to do something, you start with those insulting qualifications. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Please, Madam President, I truly feel sorry for you once again, for the third time today I feel sorry for you. I can see the state you're in right now. Keep your dignity, at least don't let people who are wearing some T-shirts and come here like they're in a gym, give me the qualifications of my party, because we're neither mobsters nor goons or anything. [[Applause from GERB-SDS and laughter in ITN.]] And I don't know what's so funny to you guys, people are gonna punish you right now in the next election, so don't get too excited. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u168	Mr. Nenkov, I punished Mr. Yordanov. [[Relations between the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and the Chairman.]] I made an observation. No, I didn't. I made a remark on his microphone before you left. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u169	Madam President, my procedure is on the same occasion. I do not sympathize with you, because you, with your absence, with the neglect of the parliamentary process and debate, by authorising someone after someone, have led the National Assembly to this toupik. But my procedure is the way it is. Just because Toshko is your party boss doesn't mean you have to let him insult parliamentary groups or individuals. Yesterday our parliamentary group left the meeting after the words of this same Tusko, who lacks simple, simple knowledge not only of the Rules but also of the culture of each person. Yesterday, Mr. Toshko called our parliamentary group the most disgusting. Today he called our party a mafia structure. Mr. Toshko, behind this party and behind this group are more than 600,000 Bulgarian citizens. [[ITN lines and lines]] Is that what you want? [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u171	Okay, if that's what it is. [[IHN lines]] Don't do what you've been doing for months. Behind each parliamentary group are Bulgarian citizens who have chosen it through their trust and vote. We'll see how long they stay behind in the early parliamentary elections. But your behavior is dangerous! Madam President, I very much ask you not only to punish or make a remark to Mr. Yordanov, but to punish him in accordance with the rules of our Rules by removing him from plenary. Thank you. [[Extreme applause and cheering by GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mrs. Atanasova. [[(Applause from GERB-SDS, the group gets up on its feet, shouts: "Toshko out! " (Applause from IHN, shouts: "Bravo! ")]] Mrs. Atanasova, first of all, Tosko Yordanov is not my party boss because I am not a party member. [[Noise and lines.]] Second of all, I imposed on him. [[noise and lines]] In second place, in second place, I imposed on him for the first time before Mr. Nenkov came out to speak. According to the Rules of Procedure and the ethical rules, there is nothing else I can do, as you read art. 159 when I can remove him up to three meetings and when I can remove him from one meeting. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u173	Defiles the National Assembly is not enough?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u174	I'm the one who put him up to what I thought he had done in terms of what he said. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u175	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My procedure in the manner of conduct, Madam President, is with you. You, making such a decision to downplay the debate yesterday, which was held and today in the Chamber, too, which we are debating................................................................................ Total chaos, total chaos, caused by the forty-fiveth and transferred to the forty-sixth National Assembly. But it makes one other impression on me. The colleagues from the Democratic Republic of Bulgaria, seeing as they support your bills, however, seeing the frustration you are experiencing in the situation in which you are going, supporting your bills, to say: do they, according to the Rules, what you are doing at the moment, accepting these laws, your personal volition, is it correct? Regarding Mr. Yordanov, who took an attitude, although I like the band with his shirt, really in the hall, reminding him and interrupting him that this is not his party television and cannot afford to insult MPs, as in his television shows, insulting Bulgarian doctors insulting Bulgarian journalists, even threatening them. Please put in order in the National Assembly, although you are missing it for two days in a row, I think it is not too late to revise your way of conducting and your decision and to make the right decision, which under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly must reject these two bills. Even we, trying to help from our group, propose that you put this debate to a vote for next week so that we will no longer fall into this weightlessness, to which the group of "There is such a people" and the other parties in this part of the House have forced you to drop out and continue to humiliate yourself and the members of the Forty-sixth National Assembly, thus openly violating the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There are decisions, there are votes in the National Assembly, I announced them and announced why I am taking this decision. Mr. Stanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Do you know what the big difference is from a working parliament and a non-working parliament? An example can be given with specific figures in this Parliament: one is Mrs. Rositsa Kirova and the other is Mrs. Iva Miteva. The difference is this: in competence, in ability, in knowledge. Mrs. Miteva told you, if you do not agree with her decision, there is a Constitutional Court, let him rule. Now we keep doing circuses. Here I am emotional, and I'm getting out of my nerves. What are you gentlemen doing? Are you practicing your male self-esteem on a top-jurist? Is that what you're doing? [[Applause from IHN.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u178	Thank you, Mr. Stanev. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u179	Madam President, first Mr. Yordanov is your head of the parliamentary group, that is a clarification. Secondly, yesterday, when we were called the most disgusting party, or there was some insult to us, we were in the Chamber. At that moment we left the room and it turns out that you have no quorum. I want you to know that we do not owe you anything, nor do we owe you a quorum, nor do we owe you any support, nor do we owe you any understanding, even though we do not rarely. Be careful what you say. Every word you say has a price. The price for your words yesterday we pay it today with this mess. It would not have happened if we had been in the Chamber and had voted against the Law or the Law. Then there wouldn't be a case. At the moment, the entire parliament is paying the price for your yesterday's words. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]] Next week you will pay the price for your words today for being a mafia structure. We owe something only to the Bulgarian voters and to our voters who sent us here, and these people are neither part of the mafia structure and you have no reason to insult them in any way. They are the sovereign, they are part of the sovereign, and when you speak in praise of the sovereign, keep it in mind. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u180	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. To clarify, Mrs. Atanasova said party boss, not parliamentary chief. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u181	...he's not your parliamentary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u182	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, we are in a situation from which we must come up with a decision that will protect the principles of the Constitution and protect the spirit of our parliamentary regulations. Out of doubt is the competence of Parliament Speaker Miteva in matters of constitutional law. That's what I'm saying as her colleague and constitutionalist. From this point of view, the proposed decision following the Conference of Presidents for me is the only constitutional solution possible and I will tell you why? Because the Constitutional Court, in its final practice, which was quoted by Mrs Miteva, has repeatedly said what is the standard of assessment for constitutionality of the votes in the Assembly. First of all, were there enough MPs in the Chamber present, and they were present, as yesterday was established with a deliberate inspection of the quorum, immediately before the vote, and did they vote more than the so-called ordinary majority, which is at least 61 MPs under the Constitution? In yesterday's vote, which is the last one, they voted on how many were there - a hundred and a few... [[Heckling]] So our opinion of yesterday is that there is a valid vote on the second bill of colleagues from IHN, this bill has been adopted and only the valid decision, a reasonable decision that we can make, is that this bill is to go according to the parliamentary procedure for second reading. And everything else will get us into even more serious, not just parliamentary, but probably constitutional dramas. I say again: there is a practice of the Constitutional Court, there are Rules, there is verification of the quorum, let us go forward and not cause any more disputes in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from DB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u183	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. We'll start with parliamentary control. [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] It's eleven o'clock, there's no procedure, parliamentary control is starting. Parliamentary control begins, Mrs. Atanasova. Come on in and we'll move on to parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u184	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, as you have not taken any other disciplinary measure after my previous procedure with regard to the person Yordanov. Madam President, according to our Rules and its Articles. 159, and I give you the basis, the President may suspend for more than one sitting, but no more than three, the MP who...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u185	You don't even know the lyrics, Mrs. Atanasova, do you want me to tell you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u186	...insulted the National Assembly. Mrs. Miteva, you're not interrupting me, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Yordanov insulted the National Assembly, calling for two days in a row a parliamentary group with different adjectives. Please, Madam President, impose a more severe disciplinary penalty than for the claim under art. 153, which we did not hear categorically imposed by you. Madam President, otherwise a precedent is followed, which does not in any way lead to trust in this institution, to trust in the MPs and in parliamentaryism. I will not go back in time when another parliamentary group took the liberty of calling members of the GERB parliamentary group members from the National Assembly from the stands. Please, Madam President, do not allow such precedents and impose a penalty under the Rules on grave insults to our parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB-SDS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. I've imposed the punishment I felt necessary. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers to questions and questions received for the period from 27 August to 2 September 2021 from: - Minister Andrey Zhivkov to a question from Mincho Hristov; to a question from Nikolina Angelkova and to three questions from Stella Nikolova; - Minister Andrey Kuzmanov to two questions from Bonka Vasileva; to a question from Ivaylo Valchev, Zlatomira Karageorgieva-Mostrova and Christian Todorova; - Minister Asen Vassilev on a question from Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Asen Lichev to two questions from Zornitsa Stratieva; to a question from Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from Nikolina Angelkova; to a question from Rositsa Kirova; to two questions from Stella Nikolova; - Deputy Prime Minister Atanas Pekanov on a question from Petar Chobanov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Boyko Rashkov on two questions from Stella Nikolova; on a question from Gunay Heusmen; on two questions from Ivaylo Mirchev; on a question from Hristo Terziyski and Mladen Marinov; - Minister Velislav Minekov to two questions from Velizar Shalamanov; to a question from Stella Nikolova; - Minister Violeta Komitova to a question from Bonka Vasileva; to four questions from Velislav Panev; to a question from Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from Krum Zarkov; to a question from Petar Chobanov; to two questions from Rositsa Kirova; to a question from Stoyan Mihalev; - Minister Georgi Todorov to two questions from Stella Nikolova; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Galab Donev on a question from Veska Nencheva and Petya Tsankova; - Minister Kiril Petkov to a question from Vasil Georgiev; to a question from Ivaylo Mirchev; - Minister Nikolay Denkov on a question from Elizabeth Belobradova; - Prime Minister Stefan Yanev on a question from Petar Chobanov; - Minister Stoycho Katsarov to a question from Daniela Daritkova; to a question from Elisaveta Belobradova; to a question from Mincho Hristov; - Minister Hristo Bosukov to a question from Ivaylo Mirchev; to a question from Plamen Abrovski and Plamen Nikolov; - Minister Stella Baltova on a question from Nikolina Angelkova. We are continuing with a question for Stefan Yanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u188	Dear Bulgarian citizens, we regret what the Forty-Sixth National Assembly is doing to you, especially yesterday and today. The ugly scenes, personal insults and the imprecise statements of colleagues are humiliating to Bulgarian parliamentaryism. We from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria have tried to bring stability, calmness and reason. There is such a people, a democratic Bulgaria and a stand up BG! We're coming!...to talk about a majority of policies and a regular government, a majority for changing the model. Part of this change was the argument from yesterday and today. A change in the judiciary's judicial reform. Dear colleagues from the so-called parties of the protest, you refused to make a majority to replace Chief Prosecutor Ivan Gheshev, and now you are looking for a majority to change his security. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now, that's what you call a Protestant reform. Is this how you meet the expectations of the people who have been in the squares for tens of days with two demands of Borisov's resignation and resignation of the Prosecutor General. We see that in the last few days, many Jesuits are trying to transfer responsibility for their own frustration to BSP. We can't let you do that. I open a clamp for Bulgarian citizens. We from the BSP for Bulgaria and the National Assembly voted for the laws to overthrow the security and the NSO from management figures, so to call them in the judiciary, in the presidential institution, in the executive power. We voted for it, and we're gonna keep doing it. So don't try to transfer responsibility to BSP. Dear Bulgarian citizens, I appeal to you to tell the truth once again, and you decide. One month we from the BSP for Bulgaria are responsible to you. We are therefore patient, reasonable, arguing and thinking stately. I assure you, this has been a great test of character. The new parties proudly rejected our hand. That's how they made the formation of a government impossible. For two days, they have been praying that we should hold the mandate to resolve important issues, supposedly for you. You saw yesterday and today what is happening and how important questions have been discussed. Our important questions are: the price of electricity, bread, milk, the increase in the price of gas, your low wages and pensions, the overflowing hospitals, the lack of medicines, companies facing bankruptcy, rising unemployment and inflation. All of this can be concluded in three words - an update of the budget. Have you heard anything about these issues in the last few days, other than ministers' hearings? Words, words, words, and false concern, and deeds are nothing. Yesterday and today, colleagues from GERB and the so-called parties of the protest gave many arguments why the mandate should return. I'm sorry to say we have tried everything reasonably and in our power, but this National Assembly is exhausted from content. Dear colleagues, you have four days until Tuesday. Four days for a final attempt at reason and responsibility to the state and to the people. I don't believe these four days will wipe out the shame and make up for the 44 lost since we took an oath. However, we remain with the last hope that by Tuesday we will try to change the situation and at least in the finals the National Assembly will look responsible to the Bulgarian citizens. I remember the end of the forty-fiveth, almost deja vu this situation. This is also where we addressed you and called on you: let us vote at second reading the recalculation of pensions so that the forty-fifth National Assembly will remain with something good in history. Then you refused. This is the last time I ask you to reason, calmness and responsibility for four days. Let us update the budget so that we can leave at least a little in the minds of the people that the Forty-Sixth National Assembly in the final has been responsible to them. We are asking you to avoid what we have been looking at in this House for two days to happen during the budget update. Let's face it: there is a risk for this, there is a risk of continuing with confrontation, with insults, with attacks, with opposition. The result will be fatal for the parties, but mostly for the people. If we don't get to a reasonable budget update, we've got a tough month ahead of us. And the responsibility that you are all trying to transfer to each other will be to all of us, especially the National Assembly institution. The collapse of the National Assembly institution must stop. And that's up to all of us. If we are responsible, if we hold on to the oaths we make in this room, think about it. Four days! Thought, reason and action for stability of Bulgaria and for calmness of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. For a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group, please come in, Mr. Babikan.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group relates to the fact that we were at talks with Ms. Ninova and the representatives of the Socialist Party. That we haven't discussed a mandate, I think it's obvious why. We can't and we don't want this tribune to tell lies. We were constructive enough and polite enough to attend these conversations. These talks discussed a budget and its update. We have made our proposals hard and honest and brought them in. Those who do not wish to bear the responsibility and burden of the mandate, which has been given to them by the Head of State, are called BSP. It is possible to prevent the adoption of the Law on Specialized Courts and Prosecutor's Offices, both for the Bureau of Protection and so on. And I think that's clear. The responsibility of the BSP is transferred to the Head of State. Maybe that's the more respectable kind of political behavior. It's nice to tell the truth from this tribune. I am not seeking a conflict, and our parliamentary group insists, when an example is given of what happened in the Chamber yesterday and today, it is good to be present, rather than some party meeting to place itself above the National Assembly as an institution and to believe that this is principled political behaviour. Thank you. [[Single applause from IBGNI.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u191	Thank you, Mr. Babikan. Mr. Angelov, you?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u192	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u194	Dear Madam President, procedure in the manner of conduct. I use the case that Prime Minister Yanev is in the Chamber. Yesterday from this tribune he said that Bulgarian doctors should be sacrificed by referring to the Hippocratic oath. In the Hippocratic oath, Mr. Prime Minister, it says quite other things. [[Replys from ICN and BSP for Bulgaria "This is not a procedure!"]] I'll explain what my procedure is. I take this opportunity, Madam President, to give the floor to Prime Minister Yanev, who, out of this tribune, apologize to all the Bulgarian doctors whom he insulted and mocked the memory of all the Bulgarian doctors who died who threw them into the fight and called them to be victims of the policy that is being conducted. Please give Yanev an opportunity to apologize to the Bulgarian medics.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u195	Mr. Angelov, under the rules, if the Prime Minister wants the floor, he'll always get it. Until he asks for it, I can't force him to take the floor in any matter. Thank you. We're going to the questions from parliamentary control. The first question is to Stefan Yanev "Office Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria." Question from MPs Petar Chobanov and Jayhan Ibryamov on the measures of the government regarding a sharp increase in prices of basic goods, food and services. Mr. Ibryamov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question really relates to the government's measures in terms of a sharp increase in basic goods, food and services. I'm not going to put in ultimatums or tell lies, but my wish is to have an adequate answer. This year, and most of all since April, we have seen a sharp rise in the prices of basic goods and services in our country. Inflation index of gaseous fuels reached 47%, fuels rose to 25%, oil by 53%. Other basic foods such as flour, cow cheese, some seasonal fruits have also increased dramatically. The price of bread rose close to 2 BGN. The inflation indicated by the National Statistical Institute is about 3%, but life in Bulgaria continues to increase more and more. Shocking entry is observed in a number of commodity groups in May, June and July, as, of course, mostly in August, during which the office manages. The example, as I pointed out, is gaseous fuels, which rose by 5.2% in May, in June.8.3%, and also by 5.2% in July. Fruits rose in May by 8.3%. Tourist services are trying to compensate for the lack of adequate policy for attracting foreign tourists by raising their prices by 13%, which is at the expense of Bulgarian citizens. We are facing a crisis with many unknowns. The Bulgarian people will suffer from it because Bulgaria still remains the poorest country in the European Union. Gas, gasoline, electricity, water, bread, oil and so on are basic goods and foods that have increased and that affect the pricing of everyone else. Dear Prime Minister, in relation to the above, please answer: what is the Bulgarian government planning in terms of inflation and are you even considering conducting an anti-inflation policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u197	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Mr. Yanev, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, Dear Mr. Chobanov, unfortunately yesterday part of the answer I gave to the blitzcontrol and to a large extent I will repeat some of the facts and data that we have at the moment, both from the analysis of the development of the world markets and the main raw materials of the industry, as well as with regard to some of the measures and what our statistics and European statistics reflect. At the heart of what is happening, and the inflation pressure that we are currently feeling all, including Bulgarian citizens on a purely domestic level, is demand and supply, which in the framework of the pandemic in the last year and a half has had sharp declines and bounces. Currently, the economies are recovering, including the Bulgarian economy. The Bulgarian economy is also developing well on this occasion the direct treatment of these raw materials "energy carriers and fuels" and their prices on the world markets are reflected directly or indirectly in the final prices of the essential goods and services. Unfortunately, the numbers are such that compared to last year crude oil has an increase of 68%, natural gas above 200%, total energy goods by 85%. This is a comparison of demand and supply, let's say, based on July of last year's July of this year. In this situation, the overall increase and overall coverage of all prices, including inflation, both within the European Union, which is comparable with Bulgaria and Bulgaria itself, according to the data of the National Statistical Institute is currently an average of around 3%, and if possible to remove the direct impact of fuel prices and energy carriers, this inflation would be within the normal annual level of 0.7%, according to data from the National Statistical Institute. By saying all this, these circumstances, we must also say what is possible in our country, as it is obvious that we are in an open market. At the same time, the financial instruments of the state know that we are on the so-called currency board, which means that the possibilities of the policy of the National Bank and the Bulgarian government to directly influence prices and the markets are quite limited. In this regard it is necessary, so to speak, a prudent fiscal policy above all. Therefore, the update of the budget provided for provides for certain reductions in planned expenditure and provides for a reduction in the initially planned budget deficit of 0,3%, which will further result in the overall budgetary burden being absorbed. At the same time, a functional review of all state expenditure is being carried out to ensure that this budget, which is really limited, is within reasonable limits so that public expenditure does not lead to an increase in inflationary pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Yanev. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u200	I want to respond to the MP Kostadin Angelov now or after?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u201	If you'd like, but I don't see him in the gym, so... Here you are, Mr. Chobanov, for a line. At any time you can take the floor, Mr. Yanev, so don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Indeed, unfortunately, the dividing lines in our society and in parliament continue to increase and this will burden a next office with responsibility, regardless of what composition it will be in. You answered the question, but in a way. Of course, it is good that the experts who prepare the answer to pay attention to the longer-term processes and the fact that inflation will continue to grow and that this increase in inflation is due to purely internal factors, to the structure of the Bulgarian economy, to the lack of sufficient competition, due to the labour market, in which we do not have enough labour and continuous wage pressure, therefore the issue of anti-inflation policy is adequate. The budget, as we see it, indeed the update provides for some reduction in deficits, but also the cost profile is important. At the end of the year you will again, as well as the previous GERB governments, bring down in the economy an additional budgetary impulse of more than 5 billion. BGN, which will bring inflation in any case. The other thing that can be said is that inflation helps revenue, but up to time. At the moment, some worrying business situations and wage re-negotiation and lower levels are beginning to be observed so that the real income of the population can be guaranteed, i.e. not to be provided at 3000 BGN, but at 2000 BGN, from which taxes and social security are lost. Inflation, if it continues to grow, will prevent economic growth even if we now have some signs of revival of the economy. That is, the other thing that is important and the reason why the question is asked to you is that inflation has a definite attitude towards national security. Inflation is about financial security, and one of the factors for inflation, such as energy, is the development of energy prices and is directly related to national security. Do you think there to take measures and how you see the overall attitude of this sector towards increasing inflation in Bulgaria? So my complementary question is: how will you manage these risks that we have exposed, and how will you compensate businesses, of course, and people, for this increase in energy prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chobanov. Here you are, Mr. Prime Minister. You have two minutes for the duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chobanov, the really complementary question is very legitimate. I would like to be able to answer in depth, but this is about a long-term policy. From the point of view of what we have found as a caretaker government and are trying within these 3 months to sustain the situation, we are hardly able to offer long-term measures, as they also require the corresponding support from the parliamentary parties. In other words, there must be a broad consensus in society. I agree with the thesis that energy prices and, in fact, what the Bulgarian energy industry currently provides, including the volatility of recent weeks in terms of prices and exports, are very important and they have a direct bearing on the economy, including inflation. Unfortunately, this is also about long-term solutions, about a comprehensive strategy for the development of the sector. The short-term decisions that are possible at this point, we prepare them and literally next week, when we are fully aware, we will announce them. It will be a mix of solutions related to the activities of electricity companies, the activities of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange, within the framework of, of course, the law agreed with the regulatory authorities, and what it is possible to give opportunities for calming the market and in particular not as much on the market as on the business, the enterprises that are the so-called large energy-economic activities they carry out. These measures are envisaged, i.e. they are being prepared and next week will be announced and commented on both business and society and stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u206	I'd like to give one answer to...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u207	Yes, come in, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u208	Maybe I can move on, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u209	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u210	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take the opportunity of the reply made by the National Representative Angelov about the need to apologize for a conversation which began with the word "war" introduced by him in yesterday's blitz control, explaining that the Bulgarian doctors... [[The National Representative Kostadin Angelov enters the hall.]] Yes, Mr. Angelov, I answer your question, explaining that Bulgarian doctors are at war, which I agree to accept it. Any activity that is in the interests of people in terms of their health, in terms of their lives, I can accept that it is war. However, when entering this terminology and mixing vows, I do not need to be educated what exactly the Hippocratic oath contains. But starting from the military terminology, I want to tell you one thing, Mr. Angelov. If you have studied medicine and know in detail what the Hippocratic oath contains, I can tell you what the study and importance of the use of the word war is. Every war is won when those involved in it are convinced that war is just. If you now want to suggest that doctors are involved in an unjust war, that is probably an insult to them. And if you think that my words that I said yesterday are some kind of insult to them, I'm willing to apologize to those who feel affected. But I think my respect, and I have repeatedly told all doctors, medical professionals, all those in the chain who are fighting for human life: deep gratitude. If it offends you that someone is mixing money with your presence in this fair operation, not to call it war, if you think my words were such, I apologize. But with regard to the fact that the words are mixed, the concepts are mixed and some short-term political dividends are sought, Mr. Angelov, I do not apologize to you. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u211	Thank you, Prime Minister. We continue with parliamentary control with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Galab Donev. There is a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Ganev about helping self-insuring individuals in the conditions of the continuing pandemic. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! There are a lot of questions about what assistance is provided for self-insuring people, who are about 11% of the workforce in Bulgaria. It is a very appropriate time to discuss the subject now, because you will see, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that in the budget my colleagues have proposed for these individuals to have a fixed amount to be paid, whether they have a decline in revenue, or not a drop in revenue, which as an approach seems strange. It is therefore important to clarify that even in the modified programme 60/40, self-employed persons can apply for the application under other conditions. It is also important to clarify: what actions can they take if their business needs to be terminated, where can they seek compensation? The clarification of these issues will be extremely useful, as we are constantly getting questions about whether these people have remained outside the programmes to assist the business and the workforce. No, they have not remained outside these programs, although, I am giving you an example, Minister Baltova at a hearing specifically explained that the tour guides who are a group of self-employed persons will not be able to participate in these programmes given their specifics. That was her concern. Thus, I use the occasion and the situation that we are at the beginning of the budgetary procedure and these measures are to be finally adopted in order to clarify the possibilities for self-employed people to apply for these programmes in both situations. First, when there is a decline in revenue, what can they do under measure 60/40? Secondly, if some of them have to shut down the business, what actions can they take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u213	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, we are actually on the threshold of the fourth wave of the horse epidemic and in an extended epidemic situation. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy makes every effort to support the various working groups that will not be able to carry out their activities. The government is prepared to extend to the end of the year the largest measure for the preservation of employment. The measure 60/40 immediately after the adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Budget Act by the National Assembly. The changes in the state budget will provide 430 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. to support the business of maintaining employment, including employees employed by self-insured persons. The measure is expected to save employment by the end of the year for about 80 thousand people on an average monthly basis. Self-insured persons, self-insured persons may also receive support to maintain employment for employees and under the measure BGN, and we plan to preserve the employment of about 60 thousand people. Under this measure, self-insuring persons whose activity is limited will also be able to apply as a result of an order of a state authority which has ceased to operate in certain economic sectors, either to the Minister of Health or to the Director of the Regional Health Inspectorate respectively. So employers and self-insuring workers and employees in self-insuring persons can be sure that they will receive support to maintain employment for their business. Indeed, self-insuring persons can also benefit from the 60/40 measure in the design in which it is currently applied when they have employees with them. In the event of a drop in turnover, 30% will be supported by the State for their employees 50% of the insurance income for the month in question. With a decrease of 40%, they will receive 40% replacement of the insurance income for their insured persons. So the measures we plan to implement by the end of the year include self-insuring individuals who can benefit from these instruments. I can also point out, as additional information, that self-insuring persons can apply under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" for support between 3 and 10 thousand. lv. for micro- and small enterprises. The Fund may also apply for start-ups. They can receive interest-free loans for individuals on unpaid leave and self-insuring persons from the Bulgarian Development Bank. From the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy we also propose that self-insured persons receive up to one minimum wage for those who have children up to 14 years of age and schools, kindergartens, nurseries are closed and can not be visited through this measure for the parents of children up to 14 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u216	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for your reply, but I would like to propose together that we make a very key reform. Measure 60/40 is the most sensitive for the Bulgarian business. There are the greatest expectations, the most money, the most people are affected. You know that during the past government, not within your mandate, there were huge scandals which were financed, which were not funded, letters were written to Parliament and the government. Let us introduce here a civil control that will not be expensive but will be extremely effective. Those registers which have them but are not public shall have a register of all applications to the Employment Agency and it shall be public; a register of approved applications and it shall be public; and there shall already be a third register of the NSIs of the applications paid. Then even at the stage of approval you will be able to see who has been approved, who has been refused, and if there are inaccuracies, if there are scandalous things, they will become clear immediately, and not when it has already been paid. The shortage of the current system is that the scandals occurred when the payment was already made, then this information became widely available and people wondered what to do and how to correct these actions. That is, to make the system much more accountable and much more transparent, to introduce this civil control that happens before payment with these registers to be public. Note that there can be no argument as to whether this data can be public. They eventually become public on the NSI website when payment is made you know that there is detailed information. In this situation, in the same way, the same level of publicity can also be given to the Employment Agency and thus bring this system into public control. Understand one thing, there is no way for you as Minister and your alternates to control everything, we need to build such systems where from the very beginning there is effective civil control and it is for these people to ask the key questions, and already at executive level, the parliament to assess which claim is justified and which one is not. So I recommend that you make this very meaningful reform, which will cost almost nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u217	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Minister, would you like to use your coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, really civil control plays an extremely important role in the development of a democratic society, which I hope is also the Bulgarian society. Indeed, the information that passes after the submission of the application by the relevant employers who apply for the various measures is the largest measure 60/40 which is being processed at the Employment Agency, after which the data are submitted to the National Insurance Institute for Approval and Disapproval, subsequent control and verification are being carried out there, and the registers of the National Revenue Agency are also checked and the payment is carried out after those checks. Indeed, the register of persons who have received approval and payment is public and it is on the website of the National Insurance Institute, but we could also commit to checking and making this whole process from applying to approval, rejection, corresponding payment to be public and visible to Bulgarian citizens. This will also benefit those workers whose employers apply for aid under the measure in question for what funds they have received, what funds the employer pays to them accordingly. Because I would like to stress here that both measures, when business is closed and when we have a reduction in turnover, responsibility and participation of the employer in these measures are mandatory. In one case it is 50%, in the case of the measure 60/40 with a 30% reduction in turnover, in the next case the employer's 40% reduction in turnover respectively the employer's participation in this measure and employment support is 40%, to the measure 75/0 for the businesses that are closed, there the employer's participation in the workers employed there is 25%, and thus the control by both the citizens and those who are interested in the actions taken by the executive, the Employment Agency, respectively the National Insurance Institute will be more transparent and visible to all those who are interested in doing things in the right and correct manner, legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This has run out of questions for you, thank you for your presence. We're moving on to... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u220	Mrs. Chairman! It's the way it's supposed to be. You remember that we had a long debate here about whether questions and questions could be asked on Tuesdays. At the end of this debate, you somehow convinced us that it was okay, not you specifically, but in the Chamber we came to the conclusion, okay, let them be, by Monday, so we can get 100% answers on Friday. I've asked a few questions and I want a written answer from the Ministry of Culture on Monday. Some of them I've asked as oral answers, but I've reformed them into written ones because obviously it doesn't reach the Culture Parliamentary Control as early as last Monday. Today these questions have not been received, which means that the Ministry of Culture is currently violating the Rules of the National Assembly, which has the power of law. These questions are extremely uncomfortable for this team of the Ministry of Culture and, I am absolutely convinced that they do not give answers because they are ashamed of this answer. For example, did one of the questions give away their DMS to the political cabinet for a month and a half of work? And now I'm saying this so that the journalists can go and ask them, did they get the DMS for a month and a half of work in July?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u221	Mr. Bikov, this goes beyond your procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u222	Please do... No, I'm asking you to check why these people are breaking the law right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u223	Take your time with the conclusions, let's check your written answers, especially your questions, and we will clarify the case, Mr. Bikov, without nerves. We are continuing with the questions to Boyko Rashkov, Deputy Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of the Interior. Question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov concerning the establishment of a branch of the Regional Service of Fire Safety and the protection of the population in the municipality of Satovcha. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Blagoevgrad region is extremely heterogeneous as both geographical and climatic characteristics, including the municipality of Satovcha, which is characterized by extremely variable terrain, huge quantities of forest areas and a really difficult transport connection with larger regional centres. The regional fire guard of the municipality of Satovcha is served by the fire guard of the town of Gotse Delchev with the help of voluntary formation and technique, which is morally and practically outdated. My question is practically to you as a MP from Blagoevgrad region: what is the possibility of revealing a subsidiary of the fire guard in Satovcha municipality? We have witnessed extremely heavy paintings this summer, including in the Republic of Bulgaria of forest fires that can happen, of course, not only in summer, but in all seasons of the year. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u225	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihaylov, the issue of the Office of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population in the town of Gotse Delchev, respectively in Blagoevgrad, stands as follows: as of 28 August this year the state number in the town of Gotse Delchev of this office is 36 employees. In addition, on this date in the relevant service again "Fire safety and protection of the population" in Blagoevgrad is of 37 employees. The municipality of Satovcha, as well as many other municipalities in the country, is actually located at a remote distance from the structural units of the Fire Protection and under the Law, art. 41, para. 2 in municipalities with population of up to 20 thousand residents are necessarily established voluntary formations under the same law. Within the scope of this law, the municipality of Satovcha also falls into these norms. Voluntary formations are created on a territorial basis, use budgetary resources, be determined by the relevant municipal council and the tasks they perform are related to rescue operations, limitation and eradication of fires, search and rescue operations, emergency recovery work, first aid to victims of fires, disasters, emergencies, other security operations. As I stressed, the maintenance of these voluntary formations is provided by means of the budget held. The voluntary formation of Satovcha Municipality has been established since December 2013. To date it consists of 16 volunteers. We should bear in mind that the standards for these voluntary formations allow them to increase their numbers to 25 volunteers. They all have personal protective equipment that meet the requirements. This voluntary structure has four cars for clarity, which are located in Satovcha and, as far as I know, the area in the villages around Satovcha, Valkocel, Slasten, Kochan, and also have one transport car. One of these vehicles was provided free of charge by the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population (MI) under the State Property Act and the Rules for its Implementation. So by evaluating this picture, which I have just described, I think that this voluntary formation in Satovcha municipality to a very large extent ensures security from the point of view of possible fires and other cataclysms, if I may say so in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I was sure that your answer would be in the letter and spirit of the Law. In practice, the main point in this problem is the so-called transport car that you spoke about and which is provided free of charge. It is practically of such technological qualities that it cannot be used, let alone the definition that you have given here? upheavals. Since you have said quite precisely that the fire department is supplied with budget funds, the request of the municipality, and my personal request to you is to do everything possible to at least replace this transport vehicle with one that is functional and able to perform its functions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u229	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, a doppelganger, if you will.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u230	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mihailov, frankly, I did not know the technical parameters of the vehicle and I thought it was working. But what I'm hearing from you is that I'm required to perform an inspection in the first working days of next week. If it really turns out that this vehicle is not suited to the tasks it needs to carry out, I make the commitment that this issue will be resolved. As long as this is the problem of the volunteer squad he has in Satovcha and he can cope with the tasks assigned under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We've run out of questions for you. Thank you for coming. We move on to questions to Hristo Bosukov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Question from the MP Radoslav Nikolov Boychev on the activities of the North-Eastern state enterprise Shumen, in particular the territorial units in Targovishte district. Another question from the National Representative Radoslav Boychev about the activities of the North-Eastern State Enterprise Shumen, in particular the territorial units of the district of Targovishte. You're welcome to develop both questions. You have four minutes to develop a double for each of the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Parliamentary control last Friday did not reach to develop the two issues, but I had the opportunity in a private conversation to provide you with the analysis that I did on the basis of the annual reports of the forest farms in Targovishte District Prosecutor's Office's report in Omurtag, the growing application material in the Ministry of Interior Regional Management in the town of Omurtag. I was also familiar with reports of checks carried out on the Hunting Farm in the town of Popovo. I have also been contacted by many representatives of the logging industry, citizens, hunters. Personally, I find it disturbing some of the things and the way forest farms are managed. My two questions are conditionally separated because the signs of the good work of a holding are the achieved financial result based on submitted accounts to you, reports, reasons that led to this. In this regard, I have also asked you for your objective analysis of their activities, how they manage, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u233	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, under the Forests Act, art. 168, p. 8, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as principal and body of management of state enterprises under art. 163 of the Law approves the annual financial statements and the annual activity reports of the enterprise. These financial statements are based on the annual financial statements drawn up by the territorial divisions of state-owned enterprises which, in accordance with the Forest Act, are presented in the enterprise's central management. The Governing Council of the State Enterprise shall also adopt the annual financial plans of the territorial divisions. The Management Board shall be assisted by an Economic Council consisting of the directors of the territorial units of the State undertaking concerned. For its part, the Business Council is discussing proposals for the distribution of profits and covering the loss of the State enterprise, as well as discussing the annual Activity Report and the annual financial statement of the State enterprise. The Director of the State Enterprise shall direct the overall activity of the enterprise, taking into account its activities of the Governing Council. The analysis of the activities of the territorial divisions as well as the adoption of their annual financial statements shall be carried out by the Central Government of the State Enterprise and the Governing Council, as well as by the Business Council of the enterprise. In relation to the analyses carried out to implement the financial plans of state-owned enterprises during the period considered, it should be noted that the COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed on its management have inevitably affected state-owned enterprises. As a result of the emergency situation and the general economic crisis due to the pandemic, a total decrease in wood sales has been reported for all state-owned enterprises of over half a million cubic metres of wood, or by more than 10% compared to 2019. The largest decrease compared to the previous year is reported precisely in the North-East State Enterprise.. 132 thousand cubic meters, or 17% less at the same time when the average price of wood sold with reduced production costs of BGN 5,59. per cubic meter, or 11%. For this reason, the company is the only one that ended 2020 with a negative financial result of 2 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. I note separately that the accounts for this year are not final and cover only its first half, which, due to the worse weather conditions and the specific nature of forest activities, is traditionally less. The main revenue of the enterprises from the implementation of wood is generated in the second half of the year and the expectations for 2021 are to achieve better results than the previous year. In this regard, I will inform you of the analysis by the management of the North-Eastern State Enterprise of the city of Shumen, an analysis of the activities of the territorial departments of the state-owned holding of Omurtag and the State-owned hunting holding of Black Loms, for the last three years, and in particular for the period 2018 to 31 August 2021 on operational and accounting data for August 2021, the territorial division of the State-owned State-owned holding of Omurtag, is entitled to rank among the divisions of the North-Eastern State Enterprise of Shumen, with the best economic and financial indicators. The reports on the implementation of the established annual financial plans for 2018, 2019 and 2020 as well as on 31 August this year indicate implementation of the natural and value indicators for all activities of the Plan. The financial results are positive's of between 150 and 220 thousand. BGN, and are over-executed to the financial plan. The only exception is observed in 2020, for which there are objective reasons. Reduced demand and hence a decline in the extraction and implementation of wood as a result of the measures introduced and the economic crisis caused by the horse mackerel pandemic. At the end of August this year a current financial result of 77 thousand is reported. lv. for a year of 150 thousand. lv. The main revenues of the territorial unit are from the use of wood. The largest share of the total expenditure reported is those for staff salaries and social security between 39 and 49% over the period considered with a tendency to increase. The cost of external services constitutes about one third of the total costs, their share directly dependent on the prevailing method of sale of wood as standing on a root or as cut off from storage. The annual planned use of wood for the period considered is sustainable '31 thousand cubic metres. The reported implementation is generally higher than the planned quantity, by the end of August is 20 thousand cubic tons. The following activities have been carried out in the forest areas held in the period 2018 - August 2021: the preparation of the forest land, 60 acres; the support of the natural renewal, which takes place with the removal of the logging area of about 1200 acres; the conservation of the forest areas and the spending of 15 thousand. lv.; funds for fire depots and costs for fire escapes - 1000 BGN The liquidity and cost-efficiency indicators show that the total financial economic situation of the holding is very good, with over the undertaking's average solvency and realised unit revenue. The territorial unit of the State Hunting Industry.. Cherni Lom.. the city of Popovo, in the period 2018.. 31 August 2021 is in difficulty in implementing the indicators for individual activities and overall to achieve the financial results laid down in the approved annual financial plans. However, the results reported for 2018 "201' are positive. Therefore, 210 thousand. lv. And 253 thousand. lv. For the above-mentioned objective reasons, in 2020, the State Hunting Farm "Cherni Lom" reported a negative financial result of 60 thousand. lv. As of August 31, the current financial result of the holding has a profit of 32 thousand. lv. The share of revenue from the sale of wood is between 70 and 79% of total revenues, and those from hunting activities have decreased from 12% to 4% in 2020, with a negative impact on African swine fever in the last two years. Significant impact on the financial result and on the hunting activity, which generated losses over the period considered: for 2018 Most of these losses are mainly due to the implementation of the two joint agreements currently in force under the Game Hunting and Conservation Act, which the Hunting Farm concluded in 2007 and 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u235	Mr. Minister, the weather. Do you have much time left? In the frame of the back, you can finish something if you have to say. Mr. Boychev, straight to the line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, yes, that's the way it is for the forest farm in Omurtag. A really positive result has been reported, but there are other problems. You know from the reports that have been provided to you that the activities of the Forest are focused mainly... For 2020, they have 36 administrative violations for a total of 16 ccs. They roam around people's houses and realize illegal wood from 0.4 to 4 ccs, mostly elderly citizens. At the same time, police patrols stop on the Republican network of trucks with 30 cc's of wood on them, while transport tickets are for different wood, different destination. The last example is from August 5th in the land of the village of Kiteno, Omurtag municipality disappeared 15 acres of forest. You can imagine what the situation is there. Perhaps my analysis shows that the positive financial result of the forestry sector on timber logging and sale is achieved mainly through tender procedures, while in the hunting farm in the town of Popovo is bypassed by my own data, I do not know if it is so, and the direct negotiation is used, as said by representatives of the forestry industry of specific companies. You're right about working together with the Hunting Farm. Between 2014 and 2018, the financial result is negative over a million and something. We note that this is the Hunting Farm with the largest population of a noble deer in Bulgaria, with trophy qualities. I'm sorry to hear that 4% of his income is precisely from hunting activities, provided that his purpose is such. It also remained without a hunting home and with a primary game and trophies treatment point.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u237	Time. Finish your sentence if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u238	Yeah, I'm finishing my sentence. I would like to welcome, however, Mr. Minister, the first steps you have taken in taking this position, the release of the Director and the Board of Directors and the appointment of a new board with a new director. I consider them right and it is appropriate to continue them. There is indeed a need for a comprehensive audit of these holdings. For the farm in Targovishte, there are no specific signals, as if things were better. My appeal to you is to continue your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u239	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? You have double time because they are two questions with a common answer, which means that your back is double.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u240	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Boychev, as you noted, all members of the Managing Board of the Northeastern State Enterprise in Shumen, including the Director, were released on 1 June 2021. New persons with the same date were appointed to the vacant places, respectively. There is currently a competition for the selection of the director of the enterprise. As regards the alleged circumvention of the bidding procedures in the territory of the State Hunting Farm, I would like to inform you that the wood included in the annual plan for 2021 of the State Hunting Farm "Black Lom" for the state forest territories is offered for sale at six auctions, of which two are electronic. The total quantity is 8755 cubic metres, with three auctions suspended due to lack of participants. Only one electronic auction for the sale of wood to the root has a bidding of 32% compared to the initial prices announced. The auction, which refers to a 55% increase compared to the initial prices, is with a clear bidding bid for the sale of root-based wood from municipal and forestry territories, which are operated and managed by the State Hunting Industry. Initial prices for this wood are voted by the Municipal Council. By 31 August 2021, by price write-off, 10 thousand were sold. 173 cc's of basic wood and technological wood, subject to regulations. I don't know what that means. Whatever. On your question about the sale of the Hunting House in Cherni Lom. The sale of Elenovo at one point with the primary trophy or game meat treatment points was carried out in April 2020 by the previous management of the State Hunting Farm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the next questions. A question from MP Maria Kapon about hail, a ban order for the launch of anti-urban missiles, damage and necessary compensation for the losses of farmers. Here you go, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in the last week, as the situation is from last Saturday, you have given explanations, I think the Ministry of Defence, but indeed for the people of the region of Plovdiv, this was an unforgettable area of 40 years of hail, as the adults say, in the field of Thrace. The ability of the anti-city missiles to break the cloud, as usual from the three sites, was the only option to save the region from the hail of a peach-sized region. It really destroyed the labor of hundreds of people, wiped out the vegetable crop in our most fertile land. These were over 15 villages that were affected. Why did the territory remain unprotected, I think everyone understood, but it's good to hear it from this tribune?! I know it's possible there's coordination. Perhaps it is naive to believe that in some way this coordination could have predicted, even if it was worth a little more, that the plane would land somewhere or whatever it might not be possible, I would also be waiting for the Minister of Defense to answer that question. The facts are facts and the conditions under which fruits and vegetables are grown in this region are one of the best, and the production was very good. What we are witnessing today, however, is that, in spite of the speed with which you reacted as a Ministry, a large part of the owners of the land committees were visited, it became clear that they submitted applications, but some of them have already given up the applications, because the only compensation they can receive is if it is 100% damage. And the damage, especially with fruit like apples, like melons, is not always 100%, it is 70.. 80%, as you can see. So my current question, Mr. Minister, is, of course, who issued the order and what personal responsibility is, but how and when, which is the important issue, will be covered these losses of farmers, and is the situation only true for the hundred percent damage and how can these producers, where there are 70 or 80% damage, be compensated, and what are the measures you have taken? We are in a budget procedure, Mr. Minister, and perhaps it is good to know, in order to provide for at least this short period of time for them to be able to receive their funds quickly and adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. I will also ask the People's Representative Mincho Hristov to develop his question, as it is on the same subject and the Minister has stated a common answer to the two questions concerning the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to combat hails.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In a way, it affected what I would ask the Minister. A few days ago in Plovdiv, a hailstorm caused severe damage. I think it's been said. The big question is: who will compensate the producers and how? The other question is, in order not to repeat what happened: who had the nerve, I know that the reason is a military plane from Ramstein base to here, a Bulgarian base, which, notice, Minister, after it had taken off, could not change its route? As if there was no radio contact, as if they couldn't tell him: gentlemen, land at Sofia Airport, which is a hundred kilometers from the airport where he went. I mean, this, Mr. Minister, this insolence and outrage shouldn't happen, because these dozens of million damages have been done because of negligence, because of insolence, because of some military exercise. So my specific question to you is: what measures will you take, first, to compensate people? Secondly, if you ask me, colleagues, the compensation must be requested by, I don't know, was it the American plane, was it NATO, but either NATO or the Americans. The $10 million, if you ask me, should be sought by them because they are guilty. Who will compensate the people for these enormous losses? And the second question I ask you: are you secured as a hail control service with the necessary missiles, means, if you will, I know that people are already using drones, extremely efficient in this regard. What do you do as the Ministry and, above all, tell us what you need here, from the MPs? There's an update on the budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u245	Thank you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u246	Do you need any money to offer it? I don't think a single parliamentary group would mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u247	Thank you, too. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, I think that things are already clear what is the reason, what happened and how it happened. The D.A.'s office is seizing itself and asking the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Ministry of Transport to look into the case and find out if he is guilty and provide the prosecution with the information. More importantly, however, how will we get out of this situation to compensate farmers? The very next day, I ordered the municipal agricultural services to form committees that, from Monday, would accept requests for State aid to compensate for the damage caused by adverse climatic conditions. About 12 o'clock on September 2, yesterday, 106 applications were filed for nearly 15,000 acres of damage from the hails. That's 199 plots at the moment. The applications are for 9980 acres of rice, 340 acres of permanent crops, including vineyards, and 4550 acres of vegetables. 31 of the applications submitted have been investigated, or this is 12% of the requested areas, of which 640 acres are 100% of fallen crops and 110 acres are less than 80% of the fallen crops. In view of the rapid management of the difficult situations in the sector of Agriculture and the protection of farmers in extreme situations, a State aid scheme to compensate for damage to crops caused by adverse climatic events is applied in accordance with European Union legislation on State aid. Support shall consist of direct aid. The aid amounts to up to 80% of the actual costs of growing the crop in the relevant business year. Actual costs shall be calculated on the basis of technological maps. In order to provide support to farmers for damage caused by adverse climatic events, it is necessary to declare it by order of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry within the year in which it arose. The condition for receiving support shall be that the farmer holds a constant protocol for 100% falling areas issued by an expert committee. The allocation of the financial resources for 2020 under State aid shall take place following the notification of natural disasters for 2021 and the establishment of a register of farmers affected. At present, given the event, it is ordered the employees of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and the State Fund of Agriculture to carry out the relevant surveys of the affected areas in an urgent order that I have announced. Also for farmers whose areas have suffered from hail, de minimis support for recovery after the natural disaster and preparation for the betting of the next harvest shall be considered. To this end, it is necessary to identify all the producers concerned in order to make the relevant calculations. In this 2021, the maximum national limit set for the Republic of Bulgaria has been reached in practice, given the need to present exceptional de minimis aid for the protection of emergency support for farmers in vulnerable sectors in 2020 in relation to the situation surrounding the restrictive measures introduced against COVID-19. In this regard, there is a shortage of funds, and with the rest available somewhere around 2.. 3 million we will not be able to cover. The actual needs are approximately 15 million that we need to cover the damage. Direct payments may also be paid to those affected. The recognition of a force majeure shall be carried out by the applicant for assistance or his successor to the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As I said, payments are made in the case of 100% affected areas and 80% of the costs are paid. That's the condition at the moment. We're counting on de minimis funds. Our aim is to provide some funds by the end of the year for the farmers concerned so that their families do not feel the losses and another part can be given in the form of a de minimis, on which this year the limit is exhausted, will remain for the following year, but a notification of these aids may be made this year, which will be paid at the beginning of next year, so that farmers can place their crops next year. In the estimate that we have submitted to update the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, as you already know, we have offered 110,5 million. BGN, of which compensatory measures for natural disasters are needed 15 million. lv. These are the necessary means to cover and pay back the damage to the farmers affected by hail.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Straight to the line, Mrs. Capon.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u250	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Of the 110 million that the Ministry of Agriculture has offered within the Committee on Agriculture and in the parliamentary groups, 70 million are at the Fund of Agriculture and of the other 40 million 15 million are for hails, that is, they are extremely important. I think that on the part of our parliamentary group and myself, as the Committee on Budget and Finance, you can count on this support. More important, however, is the case which I have already found out that 100% damage will result in the owners getting 80%. The question is: what do those who have 80% damage do? So what is the option for large and small producers where the damage is 80% or 70%? That's not clear to me, Mr. Minister. Are there any other options for them in a short, foreseeable order, because of a person whose 80% of production has perished from a hailstorm, there is no way you can explain to him that it should be 100% and then there is a chance that he will get 80% of the damage he is? I think this is important because in this region these are some of the most working people in the country. Watching vegetables and fruits is not as easy as just looking at grain. So it is important to be supported and understand what are the other options in which they are compensated. Even if you can't answer me today, I'm going to write a question so that we can think about what the options are. We have a few days on the budget, and if there's a chance of that, we just need to know now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Capon. Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u252	I would also ask, Minister, the first and most important question is about benefits. These people must be compensated, I say to you again: ask the culprits for the money because, according to my information, when the building cloud was formed, the launch sites had been banned from firing missiles at this cloud, and they fired at its periphery. My information is absolutely accurate. So these people should probably be compensated by NATO. I think ten or fifteen million isn't much money for such a serious organization. I would also like to ask you this, because for me, prevention of these events is the most important, as fire prevention is the most important, and I have had a question here for the Prime Minister on this subject, what do you need, Minister, now that the budget is updated? Do you need rockets, do you need to buy drones that aren't that expensive to disperse silver iodite? This is particularly important for cities. In cities, for example, there is no way to launch missiles, that is, we are practically unprotected, and if tomorrow it hits a hailstorm, every citizen or citizen who will eventually suffer must pull out of their own pocket because very few people have a car accident. Here are the specific questions: what do you need, what should be done, and what can we help as a parliament? Yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and I proposed to my colleagues, let us gather, make a joint proposal, non-party and look for solutions to problems such as prevention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u253	Mr. Christov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u254	Otherwise, when the car turns around, it's a lot of roads.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u255	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get some dots on both lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u256	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Capon, Mr. Hristov, I must inform you that the mechanisms of the European Union do not give us much opportunity for compensation. I assure you of the intentions of the Ministry of Agriculture to find opportunities to compensate the victims of hail, but we must comply with the European mechanisms, laws and regulations, otherwise Bulgaria will be sanctioned, we will return money, but I think we will be able to cope with the situation thanks to your help. Yes, we will check the possibility of those who are not 100%.. they will not be able to receive such State aid, but I suppose they will receive de minimis, so they will receive some help, but they will not be able in this year, because the de minimis funds are for a three-year period, they are exhausted from this year and this year we do not have the right to de minimis. We will bet the request for next year and eventually the compensation will receive them next year. Mr. Hristov, I do not think that any international court could condemn NATO for paying for this damage. I'm sorry, but the situation is such that issuing a ban on shooting or stopping the shooting is regulated in art. 9, para. 2 of Instruction No 4 for anti-city protection of the Republic of Bulgaria. Maybe if there's something to change, that's where it needs to change. In this regard, we had a trilateral meeting on 31 August with the Minister of Transport, with the Head of the Air Traffic. They are assigned within a 10-day period to propose measures to reduce the risk of repeating this tragedy. About prevention. These are indeed the missiles that are being used, or the planes. You know that by plane we have three planes operating in Northwestern Bulgaria, the rest have rocket launches. At the moment it is almost the end of the building season and the danger of hails is diminishing, but we still need to be ready and we need about 500 thousand. lv. for the purchase of rockets, which may remain, possibly next year, a smaller budget may be used, as normally for the Urban Executive Agency, the budget is established annually only for the Fund of Work salary and for the purchase of rockets is already requested permission from the Interdepartmental Commission for Disasters and Accidents. As for the purchase of airplanes and drones, we, in the now drawn up National Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, have envisaged the new common agricultural policy, the new period, the purchase of 10 planes, but not from the grant, but from the low-interest loan mechanism. Personally, I already think that whether it is more necessary to buy airplanes or the already more advanced technology of drones are drones and require less money and the costs for them are less. In other words, the purchase of such funds is also envisaged in the National Development and Sustainability Plan, possibly if possible. These are the measures we take. We are, as I have already said, limited by the legal mechanisms of the European Union and ours which are. We're dealing with them, but we're also looking for options. I think we'll be able to find one so we can deal with this critical situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Hristo Gazhev about administrative arbitrariness at the State Hunting Department. Here you are, Mr. Gadget, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first, I will appeal through you and President Miteva, if possible, for the next parliamentary control meeting to be until the questions asked are exhausted. I think it would be of interest to all the MPs who have asked questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question I am asking you is related to a meeting of the Audit Committee that we had at the beginning of August. There we looked at various signals, and one of them was for administrative arbitrariness at the State Hunting Department. Unfortunately, at this Commission meeting, almost nothing came up as a result. There were promises of appointments by the Executive Forest Agency, but if they happened, we wouldn't know. It is about the following: family holdings in the region in question complain of a severe administrative arbitrariness by officials from the Forest Executive Agency, or in particular from the Director of the State Hunting Department. Notice, from the beginning of this month to the present date, they have roughly a check and a half per day to be carried out. After the audit committee meeting we had in Parliament, the next day, welcome back to their hometown received six checks. This makes it clear that there is a trendy attitude by the administration in the hunting industry to the people in question. I have applied to my question their signal, which has been sent to the Commission, for the various infringements and complaints they have had. I just want to clarify one development in the last week. It even turned out that the officials in question were sending letters on behalf of the structures they run to their private companies, their counterparties accusing them of a crime. I, as I recall, the Penal Code, if anyone has a criminal alert, informs not private companies, but the Ministry of Interior or the prosecution. So it's very strange why an approach is chosen to signal counterparties or rather it's some way to crush an average business in a small municipality in Bulgaria, which is totally wrong. I hope that you have carried out inspections on the case and I would really like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u259	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u260	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, I will, of course, check the last signal you gave me about the threats made to the firm. Directly to your question. At the meeting of the Temporary Commission, the revision for the identification of abuses and violations in the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers, ministries, state bodies, state and municipal enterprises, companies with more than 50 per cent of state and municipal participation and local authorities in the last 5 years of August 12 was discussed the case between the management of the territorial branch of the State Hunting Department and the sender of the signal as a representative of legal persons engaged in timber mining, transport and processing activities. The same alert dates back to 2020, where the allegations set out in it have been checked repeatedly by various competent administrations and institutions: SANS, the Executive Agency for Forests, the Regional Directorate of Forests, Veliko Tarnovo, an independent certification body, a North Central State enterprise. In cases where infringements or non-compliance with the regulations have been detected, the necessary administrative measures have been taken and penalties have been imposed on the persons concerned under the Forests Act, the Labour Code and the Management Treaty between the director of the division and the director of the North Central State enterprise as his employer. In the last two years several alerts have been received from the same sender as legal persons operating on the territory of the branch and directed mainly against actions by the director of the holding. In essence, the alerts concern specific contractual relationships between the legal person and the Hunting Farm, infringements committed in the forestry territory, detained vehicles and/or wood in connection with detected inference and transport of wood, checks carried out by authorised control authorities, administrations and others. In connection with these signals, numerous checks have been carried out by the state enterprise, the Forest Executive Agency and the Regional Forest Directorate in Veliko Tarnovo. At the beginning of the year, a total of 88 inspections were carried out by employees of the State Hunting Farm. This year we are talking about a discipline of use of wood and only 4 of them concern the activities of the complainants. During the period from 3rd to 26 August 2021 by the State Hunting Farm, a check was carried out on 3 August 2021. A construction protocol was drawn up for the legal person of the sender indicated in the alert. As regards the allegations of unlawful checks by the employees of the units in the clearings with an area of more than 2 hectares, it refers to a single case where, by establishing the existence of heavy construction equipment on a property, non-state forest areas operating in the construction of temporary forest roads, an employee of the State Hunting Farm, Rossitsa, carried out an on-the-spot inspection and established a constructive protocol. According to the information presented for the period 3 August 26, 2021 by employees of the Regional Forest Directorate of Veliko Tarnovo, a total of 10 inspections were carried out on companies represented by the sender of the signal carrying out wood mining, transport and processing activities. In addition, five inspections have been carried out on two wood processing sites, two inspections have been carried out on sites where wood is extracted with the finding of violations of the Forest Act and regulations, which are composed of five acts and have been notified to the District Prosecution of the City of Gabrovo, and three inspections have been carried out on vehicles transporting wood where no violations have been detected. The certified wood processing plant in the question referred by you, which claims to have ceased, is a registered establishment under art. 206 of the Forest Law, located in the town of Sevlievo. After verification by employees of the Executive Forest Agency on 15 July 2021, the activity of the site has ceased for a period of 3 days on the basis of art. 8, para. 3 of Ordinance No 1 of 30 January 2012 on the control and conservation of forest areas, as several infringements have been identified. The three-fold verification at this site is dictated by the fact that, after its cessation for a period of three days, it continued an illegal activity established through the IAG Information System. At present, 61 complaints have been received to the Administrative Court of Gabrovo and the Supreme Administrative Court, 17 of which have been lodged by the sender of the signal and the rest by another legal person whose authorised representatives are the sender of the signal and his wife, with all complaints directed against procedures for giving wood. The data on the proceedings initiated and the relevant decision by the competent authority so far indicate that the complaints are unfounded and aim only at making the work of the branch difficult. For a symbolic amount for a guarantee of 5 BGN. The person concerned shall be the subject of the alert and shall appeal the ranking orders or pre-execution orders.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gazhev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u262	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, thank you for the reference you provided, apparently cooked by the same people mentioned in the signal. My request from now on is, if you could at least listen to the other side as a principal. Here we have an administrative answer, which is obviously cooked clerical. But I want to hear the ruling decision and the things that, as a minister, as a principal, you would take to make it clear exactly what the position is. So if you can hear the applicants, hear their arguments, see their documents and decide who is more correct and more crooked. And by the way, here to quote from memory from the very meeting and the director of the Executive Forest Agency Mr. Dunchev, who mentioned that in the hunting farm in question there was a violation of the type that the hunting home was initially dedicated to 300 thousand. lv. Rented, then by decision of the Governing Council was reduced to 10 thousand. BGN, which he thinks is wrong. Here as a follow-up question or a follow-up check: have any measures been taken to remedy this and to impose administrative penalties on the people who did it?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u263	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u264	Dear Mr. Gazhev, I will, of course, meet with the defendant to hear their opinion and opinion on the matter in order to draw my conclusions about the situation. But so the things that are presented are objective.. Once the court is involved, it must solve these problems, not us. I'm still going to meet people and discuss these things. As for your question about the hunting house, I just don't have any information about it, maybe there's a Mr. Dunchev. But I'm gonna check this thing out if you want, you can give a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u265	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This has exhausted the questions for you in today's parliamentary control. Thank you for coming. We are moving on to the questions of the Minister of Energy Andrei Zhivkov. A question from the MP Martin Dimitrov concerning the delay in the construction of the gas connection with Greece. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u266	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The construction of the gas connection with Greece or the interconnector is an extremely important issue on which there has been no final solution for 12 years. Since 2009, the construction in question began. I'd like to give you some quotes, Mr. Secretary. In 2016, Temenuzhka Petkova, your predecessor, says that then the construction of the interconnector will begin. Then in 2019 again Temenuzhka Petkova says that this interconnector is expected to be ready by 2020. Then on 24 June 2020 again Temenuzhka Petkova says that the interconnector to Greece should be ready by the end of the year. But he's not ready! Mr. Minister, already given the importance of the matter, because in order to be able to buy in the easiest and most effective way Azerbaijani and other alternative gas, we need this interconnector. And now people are asking, "Why is the heating going up?" ▪ Well, because we don't have the easy access to this gas. That's one of the reasons. Not that there are no others, but there are other reasons. People ask, "Why is electricity rising?" This is a way of producing through steam plants of cheaper electricity. I now understand from your statement that some parts were missing for the construction of the interconnector with Greece, and I am very urging you to exercise all the powers to complete this interconnector. Under contract it should be ready by the end of the year, but I pay attention to you that many years have passed, in which it should be ready by the end of the year and never ready by the end of the year. I'm beginning to, to tell you the truth, to worry that there's some intention in this job..........that so many years have passed. Mr. Minister, notice that when it came to talking, we called it the Russian-Turkish Stream, in one year they did it and the money was provided, and the construction happened, everything was ready in one year. And here, where we have a huge public interest in cheaper gas, cheaper steam, cheaper electricity, diversification, we have a huge public interest, the delay is already 12 years, which is absolutely unacceptable. All of us here in this room are aware that this is not you. You have been a minister for two months, we are all aware. But this does not mean that you cannot exercise the maximum control so that the contract can be executed and if there is a delay, because we know again that there is a delay, which is already another delay, I do not know which delay, as soon as possible to build this relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u267	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u268	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I will read the answer I have prepared, then I will insert further information on the questions you asked me. On the question you have asked, according to the information of the Bulgarian and Greek authorities, the measures related to the COVID-19 pandemic, a request from the contractor of the construction of the gas connection and the implementation of additional procedures under the Environmental Protection Act on 18 March 2021 was signed Agreement No 2 amending the Treaty on the design, supply and construction of the gas interconnection Greece from 10.10.2019, which changed the deadline for completion of the work from 18 to 26 months. In the event of an extension of the contract period, "Avaks' has submitted an updated timetable for the completion of construction and commissioning, which provides for the finalisation of those activities until 31.12.2021. The implementation of the work on the presented schedule of "Avaks" is inspected and monitored by the consultant engineer, who regularly presents reports on the progress of the construction work. On the basis of information from the consultant engineer and the experience of the engineering team, it should be noted that the submitted schedule is difficult to achieve with regard to the final date for completion of construction, conducting the gas tests, putting the facility into operation and transmitting the facility in full technical readiness for commercial operation. The process of putting the gas pipeline in commercial operation implies additional accompanying actions both during construction and after completion of its technical operation. In addition, I would like to tell you that since the caretaker government has been at these posts, one of the focuss of our government has been precisely speeding up the process of building the gas connection. We have made meetings with absolutely all the necessary entities with the performer, with the owners of the project company, we are constantly in touch. For the missing parts you mentioned, they are not missing, these are parts that the contractor has told different companies and are waiting for their delivery. Since we had information that the delivery would be delayed, we also came into contact with the companies that are suppliers of these parts so that we could show them the importance of this construction through a higher level. So, on our part, we are doing everything possible to carry out the construction works, which is by the end of this year to be respected. Two main moments have been made by the Project. The passage under the river Maritsa and the passage under the dam. Those were two crucial moments that took a long time, and now they're a fact. We are doing our best, and we have stated in writing to the contractor that there will be no extension of the deadline and after 31 December he will take the sanctions, which are 90 thousand a day. That's what I can tell you. We're doing our best, and as long as we're here, we're not gonna stop laying them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u269	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u270	Madam President! Mr. Minister, I am pleased with the spirit of your response. Keep in mind that as things turn out, the next attempt to create a regular government is expected to be in December. That is, it is likely that a next office, as is the situation, will answer this question. So the exercise of exclusive control is very important so that there are no grounds for greater delay from now on At the end of this year, the relationship with Greece must at least technically be built, putting into service will cost another month or two, but the matter will be resolved. Tell me: what part of the agreed Azerbaijani gas has been imported so far, what part has actually been imported from those quantities that we had negotiated because a position of the Bulgarian Energy Holding has emerged that they could not renegotiate the points? You saw that. That is to say, what appears to be the previous management slowed down by 12 years the Greek connection, for which there are no excuses, by the way, and now much of the more profitable Azerbaijani gas cannot be imported, which immediately cost people higher steam bills, electricity bills, for these most sensitive things. The logical question comes because this cannot go on like this: tell from the agreed quantities so far how really have they been imported to get an idea of people, what is it about? Secondly, it is indeed commendable that you are making maximum control efforts, that you have spoken to the suppliers of the parts in question that are missing, that you have told the contractor that the execution period will no longer be extended. That question really needs to be put at an end. Look, there was also a Kovid about the Russian-Turkish Stream during its construction, there was an international crisis, but this did not lead to a delay in the deadlines, because apparently in the previous government there was the exceptional motivation for this project to be completed. Now it is time for you and we, to have the exceptional motivation that is in favor of Bulgaria and not other countries, because the Greek connection is the real diversification that is the real benefit for Bulgaria, it must be ready as soon as possible. So, Minister, if you succeed, as they say, your mandate may be remembered by this.. something that some people have not done for 12 years, but happened within your office. So, really, everything that's possible has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u271	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Secretary, would you like to use the backrest? No. In this case, we are going to ask the MP Plamen Danailov about the possibility of producing electricity. Here you are, Mr. Danailov, to develop the questioning, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u272	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ten years, in fact, even 11 years, the carefree management of the "Topplofication" by GERB has led to its difficult financial situation. During these 10 years, "Topplofication" failed to allocate sufficient funds for investments and therefore could not meet the environmental requirements imposed on it. However, this results in quite a lot of damage. This damage is reflected in the fact that, with a change of the complex work permit of the "Toplofication" it cannot do its work properly, as it has done so far. In this respect, the losses to be accumulated are significant. At present, its situation is extremely severe. It has over 700 million liabilities to the Bulgarian Energy Holding and more than 100 million due obligations to the Bulgarian Energy Holding. If the cap is limited and the cap will be limited in its activities, what is the possibility to compensate for this on the electricity grid? My second question is: in fact, with the additional losses that will accumulate the Bulgarian Energy Holding and in particular the Bulgarian Energy Holding, how will they cope and what will happen to the financial situation of the company? You're still the principal of these companies. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u273	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. Mr. Minister, come in. You have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Topplofication Sofia" EAD produces electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration and sells electricity produced by it on the free market. The company receives compensation for the amount of electricity produced by the Fund in the form of a premium. In this connection, the forced removal of generating power generation capacities of Sofia's Toplofication will cause a reduction in the supply of electricity on the market, which could also reflect on the price of electricity on the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. The question of the heat supply of Sofia during the winter season remains essential if the thermal power generation in TPP is forced to be stopped at the TPP Sofia, TPP Sofia East, and hence the Central "Lyulin" and OC "Zemlyane", if the prescribed measures by RIEW Sofia are not implemented, for the reduction of nitrogen oxides. When the centralized heat supply in the capital is stopped, it will be impossible to replace heat with electricity and with solid fuels. This would lead to accidents in the electricity infrastructure of the capital as well as serious air pollution of Sofia. As the Sofia Municipality is a 100% municipal company, I believe that its principal, Sofia Municipality, should take the necessary measures to ensure the heat supply of the capital during the winter season. About the duties of the Toplofication Sofia...... As of 10 August 2021, the liabilities amounted to 113 million. BGN, of which the overdue obligations for supplied natural gas in the period March "July 2021" amounted to 92 million. $800,000. lv. The consumption of Toplofication Sofia is about 30% of the total consumption of clients of Bulgargaz. In the country and the delay in payments by the thermal company has a serious impact on the financial stability of Bulgargaz. In this regard, the public supplier has taken judicial action against the Sofia Popplofication for the sum of nearly 71 million. lv. for overdue liabilities for the period from March to May 2021 the liabilities of the Bulgarian Energy Holding for the period from March to May 2021 amounted to more than 713 million by August 2021, of which more than 164 million were overdue. The Ministry of Energy believes that the management of the Sofia Topplofication, as well as the principal of the company Sofia Municipality, should take urgent measures for the financial recovery of the company in order to cover the debts to Bulgargaz. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u275	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhivkov. You have the floor for supplementary questions, Mr. Danailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. It became clear enough where with the model of the heat pump company was brought. However, these obligations will finally have to be paid for by all of us, because they can certainly not pay them through their activities. Separately, as far as I know, if it stops producing this highly efficient energy, the heat company will accumulate another 170 million. lv. loss for every year. That is, even if you look for an option through Sofia Municipality, it does not in itself have the means to take on these obligations and will have to look for another option either by borrowing or by increasing the price, which means that we can stay either without steam in Sofia during the winter season and for the future, or the price to be so high that it cannot be used again. In this regard, the court cases which have been brought and if won, and they will most likely be won, because it is undeniable that these amounts are due, I think, too, that the heat efficiencys themselves do not dispute them, but simply seek any options for an out-of-court agreement if it does not come to an out-of-court agreement: what is the option of this company to continue or some kind of, we can say, to some kind of nationalisation?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Danailov. You have the floor for a line. More like an answer to the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danailov. The way in which heating is managed and the way in which it will come out of the situation with accumulated liabilities is still a matter of the management of the Heat Efficiency. From the point of view of the Bulgarian Energy Holding and the Bulgarian Energy Holding and Bulgargas, which have been approached for a long enough time, so to say, noblely to the Sofia Topplofication, from the point of view of them, they must seek their obligations in one way or another. That's what happens in court. The responsibility for the state of Sofia's Toplofication and for what will follow in one or another decision of the court is entirely the management of Sofia's Toplofication. So from this point of view, I cannot tell you what they would have done as rescue measures for the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u279	Thank you, Mr. Zhivkov. Would you like to be treated, Mr. Danailov? Here you go. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u280	Yes, I fully agree that this is in the part of the management of the Sofia Topplofication, but the problem is extremely big. You yourself mentioned that they are one of the largest natural gas consumers, yet it is about the capital and perhaps over one million consumers who benefit from steam and hot water. If it comes to this negative scenario, it will be extremely difficult. Of course, it always remains the possibility to pay fines that the RIEW would have, and not to have to seal or close the boilers not to work, but ultimately this is a common problem, because, as far as the KEWRC and the CEZ have opinions that the system, if the thermal system does not produce current, cannot absorb such electricity to the capital, is looking for such a source for the heating of Sofians. The point is, if it comes to this point, the system should still be prepared, because the winter season comes in no more than a month, maybe a month and a half tops.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u281	Thank you, Mr. Danailov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Kiril Ananiev about the up-to-date information on the territorial plan for a fair transition of Pernik region. You have the floor, Mr. Ananiev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u282	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The Fair Transition Fund is one of the three main pillars of the so-called fair transition mechanism. The objective of the Fair Transition Fund is to mitigate the adverse effects of the climate transition by supporting the most affected territories, workers. To this end, the Fund will finance basic measures to diversify and modernise the local economy and reduce the negative impact on employment. On 18 May 2021, the European Parliament finally adopted the Fair Transition Fund Regulation. It will have 17.5 billion. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. EUR from the multiannual financial framework and 10 billion EUR from the coronavirus recovery funds Next Only the Member States that are committed to meeting the objective of achieving a neutral climate will receive the full amount of funds from the Fund by 2050. Only 50% of the funding will be available for Member States that would not commit to such an objective. Thus Bulgaria will receive a total of 1 billion. 178 million. EUR to support the transition to a climate neutral economy, which represents 6.7% of the Fund's budget and respectively the fifth highest amount. Funds will be provided on the basis of territorial plans for a fair transition, which should be in line with national energy and climate plans and will be a condition for obtaining funding from the Fund. In April 2020, the European Commission approved a request for technical assistance by Bulgaria of 550 thousand. EUR on the line of the Structural Reform Assistance Programme to prepare territorial plans for a fair transition of the regions of Stara Zagora, Kyustendil and Pernik. In December 2020, it was announced who is the consultant who will develop the territorial plans for a fair transition of the three most affected by the transition to a low-carbon economy in Bulgaria, one of which is Pernik. In the process of preparing the Territorial Plan for a fair transition, the selected consultant should hold meetings with all interested parties, the requesting authorities, the non-governmental sector, business and citizens, also take into account their interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u283	The question, Mr. Ananiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u284	Okay, I'll get right to the point then.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u285	Yeah, 'cause it's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u286	Given that territorial plans must be ready by the end of September this year, and by the end of November, they must be agreed with the Ministry of Energy and then approved by the European Commission, please inform us in detail about the progress in preparing the Territorial Plan for a fair transition of the Pernik region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u287	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the preparation of the territorial plans for a fair transition by the Council of Ministers and the Directorate-General for Reforms of the European Commission, a request for support under the European Union Structural Reform Support Programme was approved. Approved technical assistance, as you said, at the rate of 500 thousand. EUR, will cover the preparation of territorial plans for a fair transition for the districts of Stara Zagora, Kyustendil and Pernik, as well as an assessment of the districts of Haskovo, Sliven and Yambol. The project's executive technical assistance for the preparation of territorial plans is Prysawterhouse Coopers Bulgaria. The consulting services contract was signed on 18 November 2020. According to the Project schedule, the activities related to the territorial plans for a fair transition of the three areas must be completed by the consultant in September. The project is implemented in five successive stages, which include the development of a mechanism for managing and engaging stakeholders, a description of the transition process to a climate neutral economy, an assessment of challenges and needs, as well as proposals for types of investment and their expected contribution to mitigate the negative effects of the transition. On 14 January 2021 and 22 April 2021 were held meetings of the Managing Committee, consisting of representatives of the European Commission, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the consultant. By order of 28 May 2021 of the Minister of Energy, members of the Ministry of Energy in the Managing Committee of the Project have been appointed. The members of the Managing Committee have assisted the consultant in implementing the Project, with the process of collecting the necessary information under way. The consultant has developed and proposed a mechanism for managing the project, which covers central and local administration from the three regions, identified all stakeholders at central and local level. A number of information and technical meetings have also been held with stakeholders from the three regions. At present, the consultant has submitted and approved: the introductory Report In March, the report on the transition to the climate neutral economy was also submitted. In May, the consultant reflected the comments and comments received by the members of the managing committee, after which the report was sent for review by the Directorate General............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On 3 August 2021, the two Directorates-General sent their comments, which will also be reflected by the consultant as soon as possible. On 30 July, the Primerhouse Coopers sent the draft report on the challenges, needs and plans for the most affected territories to the Ministry of Energy and the European Commission. The report was distributed to the members of the Steering Committee for comments and comments. Meanwhile, the third product is not yet fully accepted by talking with the European Commission about not committing its acceptance to the scenarios to be drawn up, as these were not originally included in the scope of the consultant's activities, but the outcome of the scenarios to be taken into account in the implementation of the fourth product, the report on the challenges, needs and action plans of the most affected territories. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. It is also of great importance for us to hold meetings and inform the stakeholders of the residents in the areas, local businesses, employers' organizations and to take account of their interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u289	Thank you, Mr. Zhivkov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all I want to thank you for answering my question. I, as a Member of the National Assembly of 14, am constantly meeting with the people of the region and those who are most affected or will be affected. Their concern is related to the process of transformation of the economy of Pernik region, as well as the problems related to the preservation of jobs and the re-qualification of staff. I hope, within these deadlines that have been set, that we will complete the work on building this plan, that we will finally protect it in the European Commission, so that people can rely on the concrete actions that will lead to this transformation. I hope that we will really work very actively in the little time we have left to complete the work on the Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u291	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Would you like a coat, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, there is really little time left, but at the expense of this a lot of time has been missed in the development of the scenarios for which we are talking, and they are the most important part of the final report of the consultants from So for the little time we have left, we won't be able to make up for the many times that are lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u293	Thank you, Mr. Zhivkov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Ivanov on open production by the Ministry of Energy in order to provide permission for the search and exploration of metal minerals in the area of the municipality of Elhovo and Bolyarovo, Yambol district. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! An extremely important issue for the municipalities of Elhovo and Bolyarovo. Mr. Minister, it is granted by the Ministry of Energy permission to search and study metal minerals in the land of the territories of Elhovo and Bolyarovo, in the area of Mamarchevo, without coordination from the two municipalities and without consultation of the population. Is it true, Minister, that the Ministry of Energy is considering continuing these unwelcome actions by the residents of the municipality of Bolyarovo in terms of providing a new survey in the area of Kraynovo? One extremely important and painful topic especially for the residents of the municipality of Bolyarovo and they themselves understand about this process and procedure, undertaken by you as a minister and by the Ministry of Energy from a publication in the Official Journal of 20 July 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u295	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u296	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The production of a permit for the search and exploration of metal minerals in the area of Mamarchevo "in the territory of the municipalities of Elhovo and Bolyarovo," Yambol District has started as a result of an application submitted by a candidate prepared according to the requirements of the Underground Treasures Act. It should be noted that, at present, the authorisation procedure has not been completed. The preliminary provisions under Article 3 (1) (b) of this Agreement shall be adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council. 26 of the Law on Natural Resources co-ordination with the competent ministers responsible for protecting the national security and defence of the country for protected areas, objects, cultural values. The opinions received by the ministries are positive and some requirements and conditions are set out to be provided for, such as performance obligations by the owner in the search and survey contract. In the course of the coordination procedure, no opinions have been received from the listed competent authorities on the basis of which to refuse the granting of the requested permit for the search and exploration of natural resources in area. This is the place to emphasise that at this stage the conditions of the Underground Treasures Act do not require prior coordination of requested sites for the search and exploration of metal minerals with local authorities. Opinions by the local municipal authorities, whose territory is covered by areas of requested investment interest in underground riches, are only required in case of applications for research on construction and rock mining materials. Currently, in compliance with the requirements of art. 39, para. 1 t. 3 of the Law on Natural Resources, a one-time announcement for the opening of proceedings for granting permission for the search and exploration of metal minerals in the area of Mamarchevo. Depending on whether investment interest will be claimed within the statutory one-month period by other applicants for the same area, the granting procedure will continue by right of the original candidate or by competition procedure. In the finalisation of the production of the area of Mamarchevo, according to the requirements of art. 41, para. 1 of the Law on Natural Treasures, the municipalities of Elhovo and Bolyarovo will be informed of the permission granted. Currently and under a contract concluded in 2017 with the Ministry, on the territory of the municipalities of Elhovo and Bolyarovo are conducted search-and-search works of metal minerals in the area of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The search and survey permit in the area was issued after strict implementation of the requirements of the Law, and the geological research activities are implemented after agreed by the Ministry comprehensive and annual work projects. In the event of obtaining positive results from the geological research work carried out, the holder shall be entitled to declare a commercial discovery of metal minerals in an area of area of.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The country's environmental legislation provides for the preparation of a report on environmental impact assessment of the possible future land development project. The environmental procedure also includes a process of public consultation of the project in which the local population can express its views. The above-mentioned factual situation is confirmed by the thesis that the procedures for granting permission to search and explore underground riches in Bulgaria are carried out in absolute compliance with the legislation of the country and the protection of the interests of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u297	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for the answer you gave me. Surely this will not appeal to the inhabitants of the border municipalities. One information to you: at the beginning of 2021 a signature was initiated by the local authorities in the municipality of Bolyarovo and an initiative committee and more than 2000 signatures were collected from the municipality itself against these actions of the Ministry of Energy under the given and initiated procedures under the Law on Underground Treasures. Mr. Minister, I sincerely hope that what you have taken as actions of 20 July 2021 will also take into account the concerns of the residents of the border municipality with the signature they have collected and that you will acquaint the local population with the actions taken, with the overall procedure that has started in the Ministry of Energy. And in the end, when a ministry, an agency launches a procedure on the territory of a municipality, it must also comply with the opinion of the residents of this municipality. I sincerely hope that you will answer my question: if you take action and undertake to introduce local residents to the actions that are from the Ministry of Energy because the fears are great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If there are protests by the residents, they should not be directed to the Ministry of Energy, but to the Law, because what we do is strictly to comply with the requirements of the Law. Regarding whether we would inform the local population of the actions, I assure you, there are other concessions that cause the same negative reactions in the population. So far, I've had many meetings with similar organizations of residents, so they're always welcome at the Ministry to comment on the case. Once again, the provision of concessions is carried out under the Law in strict compliance with all the requirements of the Law, so if there are any weaknesses there, it should be governed rather by the legislative authority. We are available for opinions and for ideas what can happen. The Ministry of Energy is the last stage of the conclusion of the contract in the concession. Before that, a long coordination procedure is passed, which is exactly according to the legal requirements. I'm available to the residents for comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u301	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhivkov. Before I tell Mrs. Vassileva to tell you and the others who are coming, we will not allow you to poison Strandja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u302	Thank you. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Maya Manolova on the costs that households must make for the compulsory purchase of private distribution appliances and water meters for hot water with a remote report. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova. [[Reply by National Representative Maya Manolova.]] I should have informed you that Mr. Krasimir Valchev's question has been transformed in writing. That's why he's dropping out of oral exposure, so you're following.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u303	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the forty-fourth Parliament adopted amendments to the Energy Act, which obliged Bulgarian citizens to take into account the thermal energy necessarily with instruments of remote reporting, as well as water meters of distance reports on the hot water used by them. The law was passed by the forty-fourth National Assembly, promulgated in March and entered into force. It is evident from the debates in the hall and from the documents on the submission of this bill by the Council of Ministers, from the government of Boyko Borisov 3, that there is no assessment of the impact of this on the Bulgarian households.. the passage of the heat from devices for private distribution of visual control, respectively of such heat meters, of those on a remote report. Of course, we have made the appropriate estimates and the civil platform. We have repeatedly appealed to the former Minister Mrs. Petkova to take the necessary action so as to support the Bulgarian households with this unwarranted extraordinary expenditure, which is charged by hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian families, but anyway no action by the former management of the Energy Ministry has been taken, nor by the forty-fourth parliament. In fact, it is also not true that the 2018 European Directive requires the introduction of instruments on a remote report because there are provided exceptions, which Bulgaria obviously did not take into account, considering that the Bulgarian population, however much you load it with additional overtime, is able to pay. This issue is particularly relevant now on the eve of severe crises, which will hit Bulgarian households in autumn and winter, including related to increasing the price of electricity, heating, the main food products, but also this extraordinary expenditure will have a negative impact, especially on the most sensitive of pensioners and people living below the poverty line. My question to you is: do you have an estimate of how many Bulgarian households will be hit by this extraordinary expenditure introduced by the government of Boyko Borisov and how much this will cost the Bulgarian people?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u305	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, on the first question in Directive 2018/2002, transposed into the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Energy Efficiency, promulgated on 12 March 2021, provided for in art. 9c, paragraph 2, a measure favours consumers as it creates prerequisites for increasing consumer rights for reliable, clear and timely information on their energy consumption. The introduction of the remote reporting requirement ensures frequent and cost-effective submission of consumption information. Remote sensing devices shall not require access to individual housings or premises to be reported. With the provision of art. 140, para. 4 of the Energy Act provides for the possibility that the funds for private distribution for heating and individual water meters are owned by the client or the person under art. 139b, para. 1, that is, companies that perform the service can rent them out. It should be borne in mind that certain electronic distribution models of individual heat meters and individual water meters without remote reporting can be redesigned so as to provide remote reporting capabilities by installing a remote reporting module. Information about the prices of the appliances of customers can be found on the websites of the companies that perform the service. The obligation of Bulgarian households to refurbish their properties with remote reporting appliances is necessary for seven years, i.e. 2027. During this and the following year, the heat consumers will have to purchase as much private distribution apparatus with remote readings as are the properties of all newly introduced buildings and as are those for which the metrology fitness has expired and the same are damaged. Usually, the operating life of an individual distributor battery is about 10 years. In Appendix 7a of this Annex, Annex 7a is replaced by the following: 2 of the Directive describes the minimum frequency for the provision of information on invoicing or consumption, based on actual consumption, where there are remote counting instruments, as from 21 October 2020, on a quarterly basis on request, and in other cases, twice a year as from 1 January 2022. s once a month during the heating season. In order to be technically feasible, this is necessary in all properties of the heat-qualified building, for individual private distribution appliances to be reported at the same time with the heat meter of the subscriber station and with the water meter under the heating element for domestic hot water supply, and this is possible only if the latter have remote reporting capabilities. For the costs of the monthly transmission of data from hot water water water meters by the persons referred to in art. 139b of the Energy Act of the Water Operators, it should be borne in mind that Regulation No 4 does not restrict the officials of the water supply operator to account for individual water meters for hot water in the customer's properties, whether remote or not with remote reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u306	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Manolova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u307	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, of course, we have made appropriate estimates and we are also aware of the prices of heat meters with remote readings, and those with visual readings. I want to tell you that this will have an extremely serious impact on the budgets of Bulgarian households, because a water meter with a remote hot water report costs about 100 BGN, and those with a visual report, which until now were bought by Bulgarian households, cost 45 BGN. In addition, citizens have an obligation to buy the water meter in question with a remote report only from the heat accountant or from a person with whom the heat accountant agreed to carry out that purchase. If we take a simple account that there are usually two heat meters in normal households, this means that there will be two times 50 plus 100 BGN, additional costs for those who are now replacing them or who will now be connected. With regard to the distribution appliances, on average there are three radiators in one house, that is to say, three units for private distribution with a remote report, which means three times 42 BGN, or another 130 BGN, or one household for purchase or change of appliances will need 330 BGN. But that's not all, as thermal accountants require a contract to transfer data from the thermal accountant to the water company. So far the VK company has reported these data free of charge, now the citizen will have to pay for the transfer of these electronic data, which is some kind of absurdity we are electronizing and the person will pay for the transfer of electronic data. The thermal accountants have already drawn up the corresponding contracts, which you have to pay BGN 45 in advance if you want the procedure to be completed. My question to you is: do you realize what it means for a pensioner who is on a minimum pension, who is under the conditions of rising prices of everything, to pay plus 400 levs. because of the fact that Borisov's energy minister completely ignored the social cost of this exercise, this experiment? Real accounting for the heat of the water becomes a luxury service because for vulnerable households 400 BGN. It's really an extraordinary expense and it's a luxury service. We made estimates and recommended to Minister Petkova the state to take over the change of all heat meters and all appliances with them on a remote report, because I agree, this is the better solution, it would cost about 100 million to the Bulgarian state. Obviously, neither Temenuzhka Petkova intended to do it, nor you now can do it, but the lack of carelessness and lack of sensitivity from the executive to poverty and to how Bulgarian households experience such outrage.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna use the back. We move on to Maya Manolova's next question on energy policy, which the Ministry of Energy is conducting to provide sufficient amounts of electricity for the sale of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange. Come again, Mrs. Manolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u309	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, at the beginning of August, the price of electricity for economic consumers increased dramatically, including the one that was traded on the Energy Exchange. The business was outraged, and for good reason because of the increase we found it 108%, from May to August, the price of electricity. The energy of 160 leva. At BGN 330, threatened protests. Some of the big industrial enterprises closed down and, of course, people threatened to strike. The audit committee held a public meeting, a large meeting involving all interested parties, including state institutions, but also a clear response from the Ministry of Energy on non-market behaviour, about the artificial liquidity crisis created by state companies, a clear response to this was not given. What's this about? It is about behavior, the illogical and malicious, according to the business, behavior of the TPP Maritsa East 2s, because at a certain price from the KEWRC of energy of Maritsa 2s of 220 BGN, the TPP did not offer electricity. energy over a period of weeks, given that the price skipped 300 BGN, i.e. Maritsa 2 Here we have to say that experts claim that price of 180 leva. is enough for the TPP to cover a accumulated loss, which is over BGN billion, and the company is practically bankrupt. But it didn't force his leadership, it didn't force the Bulgarian Energy Holding, which is wholly owned by the Energy Ministry, to take any action. We didn't get an answer to that behavior. We did not receive an answer, in fact it was absurd that none of the institutions in the sector took responsibility for having issued a decision to join the Bulgarian energy market with the European energy market through Greece under the "Day forward" segment. In other words, no institution has said: I have made this decision, and as a result of this decision to join us through Greece and not at the same time with Romania, the price of electricity. The stock market's energy grew by 108%. Without an impact assessment, this decision has obviously been taken and my question to you is: is there any mechanisms for the Minister of Energy, the Energy Ministry to make Bulgarian energy holding state companies behave in the market and not lead to an unjustified increase in the price of electricity, as a result of which industrial enterprises fail, stop work and the prices of the main products on the market grow?
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, the need for an adequate response to the market situation created in early August and the lack of an adequate response by the state-owned TPP Maritsa East 2 and the Bulgarian Energy Holding imposed the intervention of the Ministry of Energy. As a result of the talks held with the management of the TPP, Maritsa East 2..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Before the intervention of the Ministry of Energy, this did not happen, despite the extreme prices of electricity that would allow the plant even to win. As a result of the active dialogue and the inclusion of TPP Maritsa East 2 for megawatt hours, unlike peak levels above BGN 300. for megawatt hours reached at the beginning of the month. In parallel, to normalise the market situation, the short-term measures taken must be complemented by medium- and long-term measures, such as the revision of the repair programmes of electricity producers, in order to ensure higher liquidity of all market segments in the annual peaks of consumption, talks with the KEWR about changes of some rules and improvement of the rules of operation of the Bulgarian independent energy exchange, in order to meet the needs of market participants, speeding up is very important to note and speed up the repairs of The Ministry of Energy together with the other involved departments are working to implement these measures, which should lead to long-term normalisation of the situation and minimize market distortions. In this regard, you know that there was also a hearing of the Minister of Energy, shortly after prices reached their peak, there were also arguments given. Yes, the companies that are owned by the Bulgarian Energy Holding in this case acted outside any market logic, but in time we see that this is not the case. Марица ТЕЦ Марица Изстре 2 " works with six of its eight units and thus managed to lower the price to more normal price levels. At the same time, I would like to say that the fact that there has been a lack of liquidity on the Bulgarian energy market is not quite the case, because at any given time the production of electricity is much more than the consumption and the only result we have achieved with the inclusion of more power is to increase exports to neighbouring Greece, so in this regard we are working, following the situation and all that is possible with regard to commercial companies producing electricity, we are doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u312	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mrs. Manolova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u313	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is good that you are aware that this is about, to say the least, non-market behaviour of the state company. In fact, this is also a blow to the Bulgarian companies, against the Bulgarian economy, because the drastic increase in the price of electricity, in addition to reflecting on their activities, some of them stopped working, but indirectly also affected the market of goods of primary necessity. In fact, despite the official statistics of the official basket, which measures the NSI with inflation of 3 - 3.5%, the consumer basket, the pensioner basket is much more severely affected by the increase in the price of electricity, and so is the basket of all vulnerable Bulgarians who live on the threshold of poverty. Therefore, at least state-owned companies should have duly and responsibly behaved on the energy market so as not to cause an artificial increase in the price of electricity. In fact, I did not ask you a specific question about the stock exchange because 50% of it is the responsibility of the finance minister, its owner is the stock exchange, but it is really absurd to have stock exchange rules that do not create an interest in traders to achieve a lower price. Indeed, the price for the end-user is formed: the stock price plus the allowance, that is, the trader does not even have any interest in fighting for a lower price and thus, because of the non-market behaviour of the different entities, it can indeed come to an apocalypse that will hit the companies, not the energy, but the companies. The State-owned companies could make profits for this. Now my question to you is, because the market is about to be connected............ the..... the.... the..... the...................... the........ and through Romania: will this time you approach the Ministry of Energy in Responsible..................................................................................................................................................................................... This one first. And secondly, since January 1st, there should be measures to support the energy poor: is your ministry working to develop such measures to protect vulnerable Bulgarians? Oh, and I'm leaving you with the contract with a heat accountant who requires the elderly to pay 50 leva. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's [[Passing the contract to the Minister.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Manolova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u315	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Manolova, regarding what we would do so that state-owned companies could behave more adequately in such an environment without waiting for someone to call them on the phone or give them instructions and therefore pass a time that would be invaluable to final customers. We are preparing at the moment.. I will ask the companies rather to prepare a commercial strategy which will clearly specify their actions depending on the specific price levels. And here, when I speak, I mean specifically the TPP Maritza East 2 Of course, it is clear to me that the upward movement of prices is extremely detrimental to the end-user. Here, of course, we need to take much more complex measures, as you have said, with regard to the exchange and stock rules, some weaknesses that are there in relation to contracts that are on the exchange plus level, which also say take away their main role from traders, namely taking the risk and looking for better price levels. But the fight in this direction is common, which includes a sufficiently persistent campaign for education and the customers themselves what their rights are to the movement of the free market and the selection of a trader for the supply of electricity, where to pay attention and what tricks to avoid. This is our common cause, which I hope we can successfully carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u316	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Andrey Mihailov and Ivan Hinovski on seismic research of the underground gas warehouse. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, if you will present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, the issue is related to seismic research of the Gas Warehouse "Ciren" but an object of strategic importance for Bulgaria. Even 10 years ago, a study was carried out for the gas repository and a Project for operation and extension of Chiren was recommended, but 10 years later the Bulgartransgaz is conducting these recommended 3D seismic studies. My questions are related to this: why did the implementation of 3D seismic research, which was recommended 10 years ago; how and by what criteria was the company chosen, the company to provide access to the land for these studies; what criteria were used and how was the company chosen, which made two concrete drillings? They're E-72 and E-73 in Chiren. According to our constituents, these two wells are far from distinguished by good quality and much lower characteristics than those made over 40 years ago. I'd be very curious to hear your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u318	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u319	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, according to information from the Bulgartransgaz, the requested 3D seismic studies are part of a complex of geologic-physical research which was required in connection with the Project for increasing the capacity of natural gas extraction and storage in the warehouse. In chronological order in 2011 a procedure was carried out by the Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Technology, resulting in the selection of a contractor for the design of a technology project for the exploitation and expansion of a warehouse. In the subsequently developed technology project, 3D seismic studies on the area of the Chirean geological structure are recommended before the expansion of the gas storage facility. At the same time as the preparation of the documentation for the initiation of the procedure by the transmission operator, it is proposed the inclusion of the project................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In this regard, a preliminary market study was carried out at the beginning of 2014 aimed at informing all interested parties about the intentions of the "Bulgartransgaz" to increase the capacity to store natural gas and were invited to state their intentions to reserve long-term capacity. In view of the upcoming field 3D seismic activities, in 2014 by the Bulgarian authorities, an investment proposal was notified to RIEW Vratsa and the mayorships of the affected municipalities, which informed the institutions of the methodology of seismic studies, the design parameters of the upcoming 3D seismic surveys, as well as the territory to be affected by the studies. The subsequently issued opinion by the Ministry of Environment and Water confirms that when implementing the project there is no likelihood of a negative impact on protected areas of the Natura 2000 network and there is no need for a procedure under Chapter II of the Ordinance. During the period 2014 - 2015 a project proposal on the area of the Chiren structure was submitted by the operator requesting funding under the Connecting Europe Facility as part of the project of interest for expansion of the gas storage facility. Following the preparatory activities carried out in September 2015 by the "Bulgartransgaz" a public contract was launched to select the contractor of activity 1 of the grant agreement, namely carrying out 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chiran structure. The outcome of the procedure was announced in April 2016, which was appealed by one of the participants to the Commission for Protection of Competition. By decision of the KPC, the procurement procedure was extended from a stage examination of the technical proposals of the participants in accordance with the requirements of the participation documentation and the reasons set out in the KPC decision. The Commission's work to carry out the procedure has been resumed and, in the light of the reasons in the decision, it is established that the technical proposals of all participants do not meet the requirements of the contracting entity. As a result of the above circumstances, the proceeding was terminated in July 2016. In 2017, new standardised forms of documents under the Public Procurement Act were introduced, which required a change in the procurement documents, including due to the need for a change in the part of the complaint lodged by one of the participants in the procedure. In September 2017, the contract for the contractor of activity 1 was renewed and a contract with a selected contractor was signed on 25 May 2018. Activities in the implementation of the 3D seismic research Treaty are as follows: field activities, acquisition of 3D seismic data, and the date of launch has been determined given the extended time for preparatory work for various reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u320	Mr. Minister, time has come a long way.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u321	Yeah. To answer the next ones. The project for 3D seismic studies is partly funded by the Executive Agency "Innovations and Networks" and the contractor for providing access to the agricultural land for conducting 3D seismic research is selected through a public competition procedure under the order of the Public Competition under the title of "Providing access of technical equipment and personnel to the land in the gas storage area "Ciren" for carrying out 3D field seismic surveys on the area. The contractor for carrying out the operations wells E-71, E-72 and E-73 has been selected following open procurement procedures under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act under the criteria for assessing the most economically advantageous tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u322	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mihailov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, what I learned from your answer was actually that vicious public procurement and problems with their conduct and appeal were the reason for this 10-year delay in these recommended seismic studies quite some time ago. But what I didn't hear from your answer is what's going on with these two drills? These two drillings, as I said, according to our constituents, have poor technical characteristics, unfortunately, worse than older drillings. In addition, the two drillings have led to the fact that the price paid too high for similar drilling prices in Germany and the Czech Republic. Just for example, Minister, in Bulgaria two drills of 11 million in total 22 million. In Germany and the Czech Republic, two identical drillings of 7,5 million total 15 million. We see the price difference. Hence, there are many questions that continue not to be answered, for the conduct of public procurement procedures, for the experience of the selected contractors companies, and for the price paid by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u324	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? Okay. And we move on to the final question to the Minister... [[Reply.]] Excuse me? There was a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group by which the time of the meeting was automatically extended with the time used for the declaration. This will allow us to just run out of questions for Minister Zhivkov, so we move on. The last question is from the National Representative Andrey Mihaylov about the underground gas warehouse of Chiren and the actions of Bulgartransgaz. And this will be the last question for the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u325	Thank you, Madam President. The matter will be very brief, Minister. My question is related again to this strategic site, the underground gas warehouse, Chiren. Why research has been conducted and the expansion of the Balkan Stream system has been carried out, the so-called, but there is no provision for the inclusion of Chiren's capacity. At present, there is no constructed deviation of the pipe road with a length of about 50 km from the Balkan Stream to Chiren. Thus, the underground gas repository continues to be isolated from the pan-European transmission system and is in no way connected to it. Last but not least, Bulgartransgaz has conducted a procedure for the development of a Project for the extension of the capacity of Chiren, which refers only to the upper part of the site, i.e. only design, without taking into account the specifics of the underground part. For colleagues, only one image comparison is like buying shoes, but only the soles of them. So I'm asking you for a detailed answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u326	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u327	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, the activities of design and construction of ground and underground facilities are specific and are implemented by companies specialized in the relevant areas. For example, the main activity in the design and construction of underground facilities, drilling, which is carried out by service companies with technical capability and long experience in drilling, as well as with highly qualified technical staff with education in the field of drilling engineering, geology and geophysics. In this regard, by the Bulgarian authorities, it is considered that the design of the underground and aboveground in one order is not appropriate. The capacity of the underground part of the gas storage facility shall include the capacity of natural gas extraction, irrigation and storage. The design values of these capacities are known to increase the daily gas flow rate to 10 million cubic meters, increasing the volume of active gas to 1 billion cubic meters when reaching a 150 bar layer pressure. The design of the above-ground facilities will be carried out according to the specified design values. Regarding the knowledge of the specifics of the underground part, Bulgartransgaz is of the opinion that the design of the above-ground facilities is not dependent on the geological and petrophysical parameters of the gas tank located 2000 m deep below the ground. After specifying the capacity of the underground part of the gas storage facility, changes and calibration of individual modules and elements of the overhead can be made, and in its requirements for the design of the overhead part of the Bulgartransgaz is provided for the need to ensure flexibility and the ability to adapt it to the further implementation of the underground part. The connection and integration of the Gas Warehouse with the pan-European network is also an important issue which Bulgartransgaz addresses through the provision of interconnection with neighbouring markets. With the implementation of the 10-year plan for the development of the networks of Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) expansion of the gas storage facility, it will be possible to transform the repository into a commercial one of regional importance integrated into the European gas markets. Under conditions of increasing tangible integration of the gas transmission systems of the countries in the European Union by building interconnections, liquefied gas terminals and the realization of gas projects related to the diversification of gas supplies by sources and routes, this will contribute to the country's energy security in the context of the pan-European market. The project of common interest for the expansion of the gas storage facility.Ciren is recommended by the design teams and is set to develop in three directions, with the investment intentions of the investment plans of the Bulgartransgaz... to complete the aboveground expansion, the underground expansion through new operation drillings, as well as the construction of a new pipeline for the connection of the Balkan Stream with Chiren, are laid down in the last 10-year plan of the company. Upon implementation of the Project for the extension of the infrastructure of the Bulgartransgaz is created technical conditions for the future connection of the transmission system............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project for the extension of the gas storage facility Chiren is included in the 10-year Development Plan of the network of Bulgartransgaz. The project has the status of a project of common interest for the European Union and is about to apply for funding of the Connecting Europe Facility. The construction of a new pipeline to connect the repository with the infrastructure of Bulgartransgaz All investment intentions for the expansion of the network, for the development of the expansion and expansion of the.Ciren... will contribute to stimulating competition and promoting the gas trade throughout the region, in synergy with the other projects of the Bulgartransgaz................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u328	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam President! It's a very short line. The 2011 Project for the operation and extension of Chirens has a specially designed option for possible work and inclusion of Chirens to the then project. For this option there are, according to the data of our voters conducted simulation estimates that prove such an opportunity, are stored in the "Bulgartransgaz." After the project "Nabucco" was terminated, and the Balkan Stream (Balkan Stream) passed along the route of South Stream, which was then, as you know, also terminated, it is a wonder why, in the presence of such a developed version, which the company has already paid for, so far, has not built the pipe deviation from the Balkan Stream to the All of this shows that for misunderstanding or for other vague reasons, Bulgartransgaz is still isolated from the common European network of Greece, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary, Austria, as well as from the European energy markets. The consequences for this thing are purely economic "Bulgaria loses out of it." I count on your impact for effective work in Bulgartransgaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u330	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Would you like to use the backrest, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihaylov, I would just like to add that the expansion of the gas storage facility in Chiren is one of the projects of the initiative "Three Seas" which is connected to the North Gas Corridor, so this will be a priority subject of the "Bulgartransgaz" in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2021-09-03.u332	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes today's plenary session. The next meeting is on Tuesday 7 September 2021, at 11.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
